Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19169
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT - PHASE IA
(Loan 3393 - LSO)
December 13, 1999
Water and Urban 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit           =     Loti (plural: Maloti (M))
US$1.00                 =     M2.9 (1992), M3.3 (1993), M3.6 (1994),
M3.6 (1995), M4.3 (1996), M4.6 (1997),
M6.0 (1998)
FISCAL YEAR
GOL, LHDA, TCTA                      April I - March 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I millimeter (mm)             =     0.03937 inches (in) or 0.00328 feet
I meter (m)                   =     39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 feet
I hectare (ha)                =      l0,000m2 = 107,584 sq. feet
I kilometer (km)              =     0.62 mile (mi.)
I square kilometer (krn2)     =     0.386 square miles (sq. miles)
I million cubic meters (hm2)        811 acre feet or 264 million US gallons
I cubic meter per second (m3/s)   =  353 cubic feet per second
15,840 US gallons/minute
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB        = African Development Bank
CDC         = Commonwealth Development Corporation
CMA         = Common Monetary Area (Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia and RSA)
DBSA        = Development Bank of Southern Africa:
EAP         = Environmental Action Plan
EIA         = Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB         = European Investment Bank
EPP         = Emergency Preparedness Plans
ERR         = Economic Rate of Return
ESKOM       = Power Utility of the RSA
ESSG        = Environmental and Social Services Group, LHDA
GDP         = Gross Domestic Product
GIS         = Geographical Information System
GNP         = Gross National Product
GOL         = Government of Lesotho
IFR         = Instream Flow Requirements
JPTC        = Joint Permanent Technical Commission
LEC         = Lesotho Electricity Corporation
LHDA        = Lesotho Highlands Development Authority
LHWP        = Lesotho Highlands Water Project
MW          = Megawatt
NGO         = Non-Governmental Organization
OVTS        = Orange Vaal Transfer Scheme (RSA)
PoE         = Panel of Experts
RDP         = Rural Development Program
RIS         = Reservoir lnduce&Seismicitv
RSA         = Republic of South Africa
RVP         = Regional Vice President
SACU        = Southern Africa Customs Union
(Lesotho, Swaziland, Botswana, Namibia, RSA)
SAP         = System, Applications and Products
TCTA        = Trans Caledon Tunnel Authority (RSA)
UNDP        = United Nationis Development Programrne
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:    Jeffrey Racki
Task Leader:       Arnaud Guinard



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT - PHASE 1A
(Loan 3393-LSO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................................................................                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................................             ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT    .                              .1.............. 
A. Project Identity .1
B. Project Background                                 .I
C.    Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design.                         2
D. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                    4
E.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .14
F. Project Sustainability .16
G. Bank Performance .17
H. Borrower Performance .18
I. Assessment of Outcome .18
J. Future Operations .20
K. Key Lessons Leared .20
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 - Summary of Assessment ....................................................    24
Table 2  - Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................  25
Table 3  - Project Timetable ..........................................................  26
Table 4  - Loan Disbursements .........................................................  26
Table 5  - Key Indicators for Physical Achievements ...............................     27
Table 6  - Key Indicators for Development Impact ..................................    29
Table 7  - Studies Included in Project .................................................    30
Table 8  - A: Project Costs; B: Project Financing ...................................   31
Table 9  - Economic and Financial Evaluation .......................................    32
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants ................................................   33
Table 11 - Compliance with Operational Manual Statements               .      .         34
Table 12 - Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ............................................   34
Table 13 - Bank Resources - Mission ................................................    35
ANNEXES
A.   Mission's aide-memoire
B.    Borrower's contribution to the ICR
Map - IBRD 21773
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT - PHASE IA
(Loan 3393-LSO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Lesotho Highlands Water
Project (Phase IA) for which a Loan 3393-LSO, in the amount of US$110 million, was
approved on July 23, 1991. The Loan Agreement was signed on September 16, 1991,
and the Loan was made effective on May 15, 1992.
US$20 million of the Loan were cancelled on June 30, 1996 and US$16 million on
October 15, 1998 due to (a) lower than anticipated levels of technical assistance to the
Lesotho Highlands Development Authority, (b) faster than expected regionalization of
some technical assistance positions (and hence a lower need for foreign exchange
financing), and (c) the ineligibility (on procurement grounds) of certain contracts
originally considered for retro-active financing. The Loan was closed on March 31, 1999
one year after the scheduled closing date of March 31, 1998. The last disbursement was
made on August 31, 1999 and the balance US$5.1 million has been cancelled. Co-
financing for the project was to be provided by the United Nations Development
Programme, the African Development Bank, the European Union, the European
Investment Bank, assorted export credit agencies, European commnercial banks, various
bilateral development agencies, the Commonwealth Development Corporation, the
Development Bank of Southern Africa, and South African capital markets.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Arnaud Guinard, Team Leader/Pr. Urban Specialist,
AFTUI, and Walter Schwermer, Consultant; it was reviewed by Mr. Jeffrey Racki,
Sector Manager, AFTU1, and Ms. Pamela Cox, Country Director, AFCO1.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a supervision mission in November 1998 and a
completion mission in April/May 1999. It is based on materials in the project files, the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, and on the findings of the completion
mission. The Aide Memoire of that mission is in Annex A. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own ICR, a summary of which is in
Annex B. Comments of the Borrower and co-financiers have been considered in
finalizing this ICR. Comments that could not be fully reflected in the text are also
presented in Annex B.



ii
LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS 'WATER PROJECT - PHASE LA
(Loan 3393-LSO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVAILUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The operation, for which Loan 3393-LSO was approved on July 23, 1991, is the
first phase (Phase IA) of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) which was
identified in the 1950s and prepared in the 1980s to meet the growing demand for water
in the heartland of the Republic of South Africa (RSA). In 1986, the Government of
Lesotho (GOL) and RSA signed a Water Treaty to carry out LHWP over a 30-year period
starting in 1990 with the ultimate aim to transfer 70m3/sec water from Lesotho to RSA.
The Treaty commits RSA and GOL to implement Phases 1A and 11B of LHWP
(transferring water to RSA in the anmount of 18m3/sec and 12m_3/sec, respectively) with
the subsequent phases open to re-consideration. Implementation of Phase 1B, supported
by a Bank Loan of US$45 million (Loan 43390-LSO), started in 1994.
2.   The project was the largest public sector undertaking in Africa at the time of its
inception, involving the construction of the highest dam in Africa and large capacity
tunnels to transfer water from Lesotho to RSA. It was also the most significant
transnational operation of its time in Africa, with implementation responsibilities
spanning the two concerned countries. The Joint Permanent Technical Commission
(JPTC), established as a bi-national body, was to safeguard the interests of both GOL and
South Africa, while the main implementation agency, the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority (LHDA), was to be responsible for executing all project activities
in Lesotho. In South Africa, the Trams Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA) was to be in
charge of: (i) constructing the water delivery tunnel on the RSA side of the border, and
(ii) arranging for the servicing of all loans related to the project's water transfer
component. To help ensure that the operation met rigorous international standards, two
Panels of Experts (PoE) were to be set up to review the design and monitor the project's
construction components and its environmental and social components, respectively.
3.   The Bank supported Lesotho's efforts to develop, its water resources into export
revenue by: (i) acting as executing agency for the UNDP-financed consultants who
supervised the LHWP feasibility studies (1983); (ii) providing an IDA Credit of SDR 8
million (Credit 1747-LSO; 1986) for a Lesotho Highlands Water Engineering Project to
assist in preparatory phase of LHWP; (iii) making an advance of US$750,000 under the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF P356-LSO; 1988); (iv) and providing
substantial supervision and technical expertise during the projecl's preparatory stage. In
other parts of the water sector, an IDA Credit of US$6 million (Credit 887-LSO; 1979)
supported a water supply project that involved seven srnall towns, and which was
successfully completed in 1985.



iii
Project Objectives and Components
4.  Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to develop Lesotho's
water resources and alleviate water shortages in RSA through the construction of dams,
tunnels and controls as envisaged under Phase 1 A of LHWP -- and thereby put in place
the physical and managerial capacity for Lesotho to earn export revenues from the sale of
water to South Africa. Additional objectives were to produce hydropower in order to
reduce Lesotho's dependence on imported energy, and to make productive use of the
project-generated export revenues by directing them to development-oriented programs.
At the same time the project aimed at safeguarding environmental and resettlement as
well as compensation aspects, ensuring dam safety and preparedness for emergencies,
and preparing for later construction phases of LHWP for further water transfers.
5.  Project Components. The project was to finance Phase IA of LHWP, covering all
facilities required to permit transfer of 18 m3/sec water, and to have installed electricity
capacity of 72 megawatt (MW). This included the construction of: (a) a 185 meter high
and a 55 meter high double curvature arch dam at Katse and Muela, respectively, (b) a 45
kilometer long concrete-lined tunnel to transfer the stored water from Katse to Muela,
(c) an underground hydropower station at Muela, (d) a 15 kilometer long delivery tunnel
from Muela to the crossover point to RSA (not financed under the project but directly
linked with the operation were additional 22 kilometers of delivery tunnel within RSA to
transfer the project water to the Ash River in South Africa); (e) a 125 kilometer long 132
kilovolt transmission line connecting Muela substation to the Maseru load center;
(f) about 200 kilometers of new access roads, including several bridges; (g) other project
infrastructure such as work camps, staff housing, construction power supply,
improvements in border crossing facilities, and rehabilitation of existing access roads;
(h) environmental protection measures; (i) resettlement, compensation, and income
restoration programs for project-affected persons; (j) dam safety programs, monitoring
instrumentation, and development of an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP);
(k) construction supervision; (I) technical assistance to LHDA and to GOL's delegation
to JPTC; (f) five studies including two to prepare the next phase (Phase 1B) of LHWP,
and (g) financing of LHDA operation and administration expenditures, and of staff
training. An important element of the project was the creation of a Development Fund
for channeling part of the project revenues (royalties and other project related income) to
development-oriented programs in Lesotho.
6.  Project Costs and Financing. Project costs, including interest during construction,
were estimated at Maloti 8.4 billion (US$2.4 billion). Financing of all costs related to the
project's water transfer facilities and related components (supervision, environment,
resettlement) were to be RSA' s responsibility, in line with the Water Treaty. The
hydropower investments were to be financed by Lesotho. At the time of appraisal,
funding had been arranged from a number of bilateral and multilateral donor agencies,
European commercial banks, export credit agencies, and capital markets in the Common
Monetary Area (Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia and RSA).



1v
Implementation Experience and Results
7.  Achievement of Project Objectives. The project achieved its main objectives of
(a) developing the water resources in the highlands of Lesotho, by successfully
completing the project's civil works, ('b) generating export revenues from the delivery of
water to South Africa, and (c) producing hydropower. It also met many of its
environmental and social objectives although accomplishments in these areas have been
uneiven, and where they were realized, they usually experienced delays The operation
was successful in ensuring the safety of project dams, and it was the first Bank-supported
daum project that developed an Emergency Preparedness Plan. Project studies and
training prepared the ground for Phase lB of LHWP, and they helped in establishing
LHI)A as an effective and sustainable organization. Sorne positive impacts were also
achieved from investments supported by the Development Fund.
8.  Implementation Timetable, Costs and Financing. Implementation of the project
was completed with an overall delay of about nine months. Final project cost of US$2.6
billion exceeded appraisal estimates by about 9% in US dollar termns. The cost overrun
was mainly due to increases in interest during construction and related financial
expenditures, and because of the need to add some construction works. For a project of
this size and complexity, the cost and time overruns are considered to be fairly negligible.
9.   The project was financed largely as anticipated at appraisal, except for loans which
were, expected from the African Devel]opment Bank (AfD)B) and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) to finance the project's hydropower component. AfDB
withdrew from financing this component due to disagreement over the award of the main
construction contract for the hydropower plant, while CDC pulled out because of the
component's low rate of return.
10. Major Factors Affecting the Project. Factors with significant impacts on the
project included political changes; labor unrest; difficulties in securing financing for the
project's hydropower investments; concrete lining issues on the water transfer tunnel and
on the delivery tunnel; and reservoir-induced seismicity. Political changes including the
enxd of military rule in Lesotho and the establishment of mnajority goverunent in RSA had
a positive affect on the project by: (a) increasing the legitimacy of both governments in
their interactions on the project; (b) refocusing RSA's attention on providing better
access to water to the entire population; and (c) bringing new emphasis on regional
development with LHWP seen as vehicle for regional integration and as a model for
cross-national cooperation. Labor unrest, while overall not very significant, turned into a
serious problem at Muela where a prolonged labor dispute culminaited in violence and the
ki]l[ling of five workers. A judicial inqluiry found that inadequate attempts at mediation
and enforcement of the labor code, poor police training and procedures, and excessive
fo:rce were the main causes of the incident. In response to the incident, LHDA has taken
a number of measures to prevent a re-occurrence of similar problerns. Securing financing
for the hydropower investments took about 18 months after the withdrawal of AfDB and
CI)C. This delayed construction by a similar period which, in turn, was the main reason
for the significant cost increase in this component, especially as it necessitated
construction of the Muela by-pass to ensure timely water delivery to RSA. Moreover, the
need to arrange alternative financing at shorter terms and higher interest rates than those



V
offered by AfDB and CDC, are at the heart of severe cash-flow problems that LHDA is
currently experiencing. Lining issues arose during the construction of both the transfer
tunnel and the delivery tunnel. Tender documents for the transfer tunnel had envisaged
only 14% of concrete lining, with the result that the cost of the tunnel increased by about
M350 million when it was determined that concrete lining was required for the entire
tunnel, and when the contractor at the site could charge non-competitive prices. At the
delivery tunnel, on the other hand, extensive testing indicated that lining the whole
tunnel, as had been considered necessary, was not required, leading to considerable cost
savings and early completion of the tunnel. Reservoir Induced Seismicity (RIS)
measuring up to 3.3 on the Richter scale was experienced following the filling of Katse
reservoir. The RIS was reviewed by the Engineering PoE who concluded that there was
no adverse effect on the safety or operation of the project, but that monitoring needed to
be enhanced. The RIS also impacted the villages adjacent to the reservoir, requiring
repairs to and construction of replacement houses, and creating adverse publicity for the
project.
11. Project Sustainability. Management, organizational and financial arrangements
are in place and appropriate dam safety measures have been implemented to ensure the
sustainability of the project's water transfer component. Sustainability is also likely for
the Muela hydropower complex, but cash flow problems need to be resolved urgently
together with the refinancing package needed to be able to service the debt associated
with Muela.
12. The project's other infrastructure components, such as access roads, labor camps
and staff housing are expected to be sustainable. However hand-over arrangements to
communities and other public sector agencies - for example to the Ministry of Works in
the case of project roads - are yet to be worked out. For some of the environmental
components sustainability is less certain. Several programs like the establishment of
reserves, are in early stages of implementation, while for others, such as soil conservation
and watershed management, much more community involvement is required to make
them sustainable.
13. Regarding the project's social investments, the resettlement program is likely to be
sustained, and LHDA has transferred ownership of the houses to the beneficiaries. For
the compensation program, LHDA has reserved the funds required to sustain the 50-year
compensation program. However, long-term institutional arrangements for the delivery
of the entitlements are yet to be established. Moreover, with this quasi-welfare program,
there is the danger that the present pattern of dependency will continue over the 50-year
timeframe. As regards the income generation and the rural development programs
supported under the project, there is uncertainty whether they can be sustained. To make
them sustainable, several of the programs would need to be redesigned with greater
involvement of the beneficiaries. For the project's rural infrastructure and health
program, suitable hand-over arrangements would need to be finalized and the concerned
communities and Government agencies would have to build up capacity to operate and
maintain them.
14. Bank Performance. Bank performance overall was satisfactory. In spite of its
small contribution to project financing (less than 5% of project cost), the Bank was able
to play a significant and catalytic role in designing the operation and during



vi
implementation. Bank involvement also sent strong signals to international contractors
and financial institutions indicating that the project was both feasible and desirable, and
thereby helping in raising the large amount of financing required by the project.
Mqoreover, by consulting with RSA's political majority while South Africa was governed
umder apartheid policies, the Bank helped establish broad politica[l support for the
operation; and Bank participation provided reassurance to both Lesotho and RSA that the
lwo countries had an objective partner to help resolve conflicts if and when they
emerged. During supervision, tlhe Bank provided extensive and valuable technical
support to project authorities, helping greatly to ensure that LHDA and JPTC gave
increasing attention to the social and environmental issues which arose during project
implementation. The Bank was also instrumental in getting appropriate decisions taken
on several critical institutional issues, such as decentralizing some of LHDA's operations,
zmd re-designing the governance structure of LHWP.
1]5. In hindsight, the Bank could have been more effective by insisting that the project's
environmental impact assessment anid the Enviromnental Action Plan be prepared in
mnore detail and with greater participation of project-affected persons, before providing
financial support. It could also have recognized earlier the importance of analyzing
instream flow requirements, to ensure that the downstream effects of the water transfer
would be more fully considered in project design. In addition, given the weak capacity of,
LHDA at the time of appraisal, it would seem that the Bank was too optimistic in its
assumptions about the Authority's capabilities to fully design and implement the
project's social and environmental programs in a timely manner. More consideration
rmight have been given to involving and strengthening Government agencies already
active in these areas.
16. Borrower Performance. LHDA's performance on the whole has been very
satisfactory, especially if one considers the weak implemnentation capacity of the
institution during preparation and start-up of this complex multi-purpose project,
involving about one hundred engineering, construction and advisory contracts. During
project preparation, LHDA took an active role in defining the project's technical
assistance requirements and organizational arrangements, and it developed effective
programs for training Basotho staff and enabling them to move into managerial positions.
With the heavy emphasis on the project's engineering and constructiorl aspects, LHDA
initially did not give sufficient attention to the enviromnental and social facets of the
operation. The programs were not fully designed at project inception, participation of
affected populations was negligible, and capabilities within the organization to deal with
these matters was especially underdeveloped. Implementation delays and the need to re-
design these components were the result together with large numbers of grievance cases
and criticism by NGOs. LHDA has fully recognized these shortcomings and has largely
overcome them by making major remedial efforts, including organizational changes, staff
increases and improved coordination with local communities and NG0s. The shift in
emphasis has significantly benefited the design and early implementation of Phase 1B.
17. Assessment of Outcome. Project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project's
main objective, related to water delivery to RSA, has been fully met and is sustainable.
The component's technical aspects were well conceived, plannedL, designed and
executed, and with proper operation and maintenance the project investments can be
expected to perform as intended. Problems in meeting objectives have been experienced



vii
in several of the project's environmental and social components, where expectations have
not always been met and where timely delivery has been a concern in several instances.
These issues are being pursued under the ongoing Phase l B. The Development Fund,
similarly, did not fully achieve what was intended. To better target Fund resources a new
facility, the Lesotho Fund for Community Development, was set up in March 1999. IDA
will provide a US$4.7 million Learning and Innovation Loan which will finance technical
assistance for the new Fund.
18. Regarding the project's economic performance, the overall economic rate of return
(ERR) has been re-estimated at about 16.4%, approximately 1% higher than forecast at
appraisal. For the water transfer component the re-estimated ERR is 16.8%, also about
1% above the appraisal estimate. For the hydro-power investments, on the other hand,
the ERR is re-estimated at 3.1% only about half of the appraisal ERR of 6%. Other
macro and micro economic project outcomes include: Phase IA project activities and the
economic spin-offs they generated accounted for about 14% of Lesotho's GDP in 1994, a
peak construction year. They also accounted for some 40% of value-added in the
building and construction sector, and provided about 18% of Government revenues which
was a critical element in the Government's ability to turn the large budget deficit of the
late 1980s into a surplus. Phase IA generated some 22,000 person years of employment,
some 10% more than was anticipated; and almost 300 additional jobs for Basotho
nationals were created at LHDA.
Key Lessons Learned
19. A number of lessons which are important for future phases of LHWP have been
learned and are reflected in the design of Phase I B (details are in the main text). In
addition, several lessons have been learned that are of broader significance. These
include:
(i) The project demonstrates that the Bank can play a unique role and add significant
value even where it finances only a small portion of project costs. In the present case, the
Bank contributed less than 5% to project financing, but the parties involved, especially
the governments of Lesotho and RSA, thought Bank participation to be crucial for
ensuring that the project met sound economic, technical, dam safety and enviromnental
standards, and for obtaining broad international support. The two governments also saw
the Bank as a valuable independent partner which would give objective advice, and
which could foster regional cooperation in an operation that depended so much on it. In
addition, during project implementation, the Bank effectively advised on all project
aspects, and was able to direct significant attention to the operation's environmental and
social issues, which were in jeopardy of receiving inadequate consideration;
(ii) The project illustrates two factors that require careful consideration when designing
and implementing transnational projects. First, there must be clear and equitable sharing
of costs and benefits, and second, there needs to be a separation of governance and
oversight functions from implementation. On the first issue, there was sometimes lack of
clarity in Phase 1A, as to what share of the project's social and environmental programs
was attributable to the water transfer component and should therefore be funded by RSA,
and what share was of a general development nature and should be financed by Lesotho.



viii
On the second issue, JPTC's involvement in routine decisions encumbered project
progress, until its role and the role of LHDA were re-defined;
(iii) The project underscores the risks associated with establishing a new agency for
implementing a particular project, especially a high-profile operation such as LHWP.
Moreover, the project highlights that such risks are magnified if that implementing
agency is assigned responsibilities that are only indirectly related to the project, that are
normally the concern of other public sector organizations, and that require the continued
support of government. Where it is contemplated to assign such responsibilities, there
has to be a clear justification, activities/investments have to be consistent with existing
government policies and standards, and there has to be an exit plan;
(iv) The project illustrates the benefits that can be derived from appropriate expert input
into implementation. Both the engineering and the environmental Panel of Experts
provided valuable recommendations that impacted on the design of these components
and, in the case of the water transfer investments, resulted in significant cost savings; and
(v) Problems experienced in implementing the project's environmental and social
program point towards the importance of advance planning, including the preparation of
sound Environmental Impact Assessments (covering also instream flow requirements)
and of Environmental Action Plans prior to project start-up, to ensure that these
components get off to a timely and effective start. They also highlighit that community
participation is essential in component design and execution and that NGOs and the
private sector have a crucial role to play especially in the development of sustainable
income generation activities of affected persons.



LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT - PHASE IA
(Loan 3393-LSO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Identity
Name                Lesotho - Highlands Water Project (Phase lA)
Loan Number         3393-LSO
RVP Unit            Africa Region
Country             Lesotho
Sector              Water Supply and Energy
B. Project Background
1.   Country and Sectors. Lesotho is a small kingdom surrounded by the Republic of
South Africa (RSA). The country has a population of about 2.1 million and a GNP per
capita of some US$670. Most of Lesotho's 30,300 square kilometers of land area is
mountainous and ill-suited for agriculture. The economy is characterized first by
substantial dependence on RSA as a source of income, employment and foreign
exchange, and second by a poor supply of exploitable natural resources.
2.   The sole economic resource that Lesotho has in abundance is water. Less than 6%
of Lesotho's water is consumed domestically, with the remainder running through RSA
to the sea. RSA on the other hand is chronically short of bulk water. The shortage is
severe particularly in the country's industrial heartland of Gauteng, some 400 kilometers
north of Lesotho. Gauteng contributes about 60% to South Africa's GDP and comprises
42% of the county's urban population; but the region has only 8% of the total water run-
off.
3.  In the energy sector, Lesotho has imported practically all its electricity from RSA.
The Government of Lesotho (GOL) has been strongly committed to reduce that
dependence, and develop its own electricity generation capacity.
4.  Project Genesis. The potential for transferring water from the highlands of
Lesotho to meet the growing demand for water in Gauteng, was identified during the
1950s. When water demand in Gauteng outstripped supply in the 1980s, the need for
inter-basin water transfer became urgent. Following extensive studies of alternative
transfer schemes, it was determined that the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP)
was the least-cost solution to meet water demand in Gauteng. GOL and RSA accordingly
signed a Water Treaty in 1986 to carry out the project. LHWP is divided into four phases
to be implemented between 1990 and 2020 with the ultimate aim to transfer 70m3/sec
water from Lesotho to RSA. The Treaty commits RSA and GOL to implement Phases



2
1A and lB of the project (transferring water to RSA in the amount of I 8m3/sec and
12m3/sec, respectively) with the subsequent phases open to re-consideration. Under it,
RSA will (a) meet all costs of the transfer scheme; and (b) pay a water royalty to Lesotho
in the amount of 56% of the cost savings realized by South Africa through implementing
LHWP rather than the costlier next best Orange Vaal Transfer Scheme. While LHWP
focuses mainly on water supply to RSA, Lesotho decided to use the project also as a
vehicle to eliminate its dependence on RSA for its electricity supply.
5.  Previous Bank Involvement. The Bank supported Lesotho's efforts to develop its
water resources into export revenue by: (i) acting as executing agency for the UNDP-
financed consultants who supervised the LHWP feasibility studies (1983); (ii) providing
an IDA Credit of SDR 8 million (Credit 1747-LSO; 1986) for a Lesotho Highlands Water
Engineering Project to assist in preparatory phase of LHWP; (iii) making an advance of
US$750,000 under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF P356-LSO; 1988); and
(iv) providing substantial supervision and technical expertise during the project's
preparatory stage. In other parts of the water sector, an IDA Credit of US$6 million
(Credit 887-LSO; 1979) supported a water supply project that involved seven small
towns, and which was successfully completed in 1985. In the energy sector, the Bank's
involvement had been limited to: (i) the execution of an energy assessment in 1984, and
(ii) discussions with GOL on power sector issues during the preparation of LHWP.
C. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design
6.  Project Scope and Design Considerations. The project was the largest public
sector undertaking in Africa at the time of its inception, involving the construction of the
highest dam in Africa and large capacity tunnels to transfer water from one country to
another. It was also the most significant transnational operation of its time in Africa,
with implementation responsibilities spanning the two concerned countries. The Joint
Permanent Technical Commission (JPTC), established as a bi-national body, was to
safeguard the interests of both GOL and RSA, while the main implementation agency,
the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority (LHDA), was responsible for executing
all project activities in Lesotho. In South Africa, the Trans Caledon Tunnel Authority
(TCTA) was in charge of: (i) constructing the water delivery tunnel on the RSA side of
the border; and (ii) arranging for the servicing of all loans related to the project's water
transfer component. To help ensure that the operation met rigorous international
standards, two Panels of Experts were set up to assist in the design and monitoring of the
project's construction components and of its environmental and social components,
respectively.
7.  Project Objectives. The main objective of the project was to develop Lesotho's
water resources and alleviate water shortages in RSA through the construction of dams,
tunnels and controls as envisaged under Phase IA of LHWP -- and thereby put in place
the physical and managerial capacity for Lesotho to earn export revenues from the sale of
water to South Africa. Additional objectives were: (i) to produce hydropower in order to
reduce Lesotho's dependence on imported energy; and (ii) to make productive use of the
project-generated export revenues by directing them to development-oriented programs.
At the same time the project aimed at: (a) safeguarding environmental and resettlement as
well as compensation aspects of the Phase 1 A operation, (b) ensuring dam safety and



3
preparedness for emergencies; and (c) preparing for later construction phases of LHVWP
for further water transfers. (Implementation of Phase IB, supported by a Bank Loan of
US$45 million (Loan 4339-LSO), started in 1994).
8.  Project Components. The project financed Phase IA of LHWP, covering all
facilities required to pernit transfer of 18 m3/sec water, and to have installed electricity
capacity of 72 MW. This included the construction of:
* Katse dam, a 185 meter high double curvature arch dam
* Transfer tunnel, 45 kilometer long concrete-lined tunnel to transfer the stored water
from Katse to Muela
* Muela hydropower complex, a 72 megawatt underground hydropower station
*  Muela dam, a 55 meter high double curvature arch dam
* Delivery tunnel, a 15 kilometer long partly lined delivery tunnel from Muela to the
crossover point to RSA (not financed under the project but directly linked with the
operation were additional 22 kilometers of delivery tunnel within RSA to transfer the
project water to the Ash River in South Africa)
* Transmission line, a 125 kilometer long 132 kilovolt transmission line connecting
Muela substation to the Maseru load center
* Access roads, about 200 kilometers of new access roads, including two large and
three small bridges
• Other project infrastructure such as work camps, staff housing, construction power
supply, improvements in border crossing facilities, rehabilitation of existing access
roads, and communication systems.
9.   The project also included: (a) environmental protection measures; (b) resettlement,
compensation, and income restoration programs for project-affected persons; (c) dam
safety programs, monitoring instrumentation, and preparation of an Emergency
Preparedness Plan (EPPP); (d) construction supervision; (e) technical assistance to
LHDA, and to the GOL delegation to JPTC; (f) five studies including two to prepare the
next phase (Phase 1B) of LHWP; and (g) financing of LHDA operation and
administration expenditures, and of staff training. An important element of the project
was the creation of a Development Fund for channeling project revenues (royalties and
project related SACU payments) to development-oriented programs.
10. Project Costs and Financing. Project costs, including interest during construction,
were estimated at Maloti 8.4 billion (US$2.4 billion). Financing of all costs related to the
project's water transfer facilities and related components (supervision, environment,
resettlement, etc.) were to be RSA's responsibility, in line with the Water Treaty. The
hydropower investments were to be financed by Lesotho. At the time of appraisal,
funding had been arranged from a number of bilateral and multilateral donor agencies,
European commercial banks, export credit agencies, and commercial banks and capital
markets in the Common Monetary Area (Lesotho, Swaziland, Namibia and RSA). In
addition, funding was to be provided by GOL. The Bank Loan of US$110 million was to
finance those elements of the water transfer component that related to detailed design
work and construction supervision of Phase IA; the five project studies; and technical
assistance and training to LHDA in the fields of administration, engineering,
environment, and finance. The Loan Agreement was amended in May 1997 to provide



4
US$6 million technical assistance financing for design work and legal and financial
advice related to Phase 1 B. Since debt service for all water transfer components was to
be effectively met by RSA, Bank financing was on IBRD terms. The project was
expected to be completed by December 1997.
11. Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design. The project has been of great
importance for GOL to achieve its economic and financial goals, which at project
appraisal concentrated on: (a) increasing export and public revenues to reduce substantial
public and fiscal deficits; and (b) enhancing business and employment opportunities
within Lesotho to counter reduced employment prospects for migrant Basotho workers in
RSA. It was also fully consistent with the Bank's strategy for Lesotho, which focused on
deficit reduction, exploitation of economic opportunities presented by Lesotho's
abundance of water, and creation of new development possibilities. The operation's
objectives continue to be consistent with the Government's current macroeconomic and
sector priorities. They are also in agreement with the Bank's present assistance priorities
for both Lesotho and RSA centering on poverty reduction, human resource development,
institutional capacity building, and regional co-operation. Moreover, LHWP is firmly
grounded in the Bank's 1995 and 1998 Country Assistance Strategies.
12. The project's objectives have been clear and have remained unchanged throughout
project implementation. However environmental considerations, and goals related to
resettlement, compensation and income generation in the project area, increased
significantly in importance as implementation progressed. Project design has been
changed to respond to these developments. Design changes became necessary also in the
main civil works components of the project as construction encountered some unforeseen
problems (para. 59). In this context, the project's innovative feature of two Panels of
Experts for construction and environmental/social matters, respectively, turned out to be
very valuable.
13. In hindsight, it is apparent that complete and timely achievement of the project's
environmental and social objectives was not fully realistic given the weak institutional
capabilities in Lesotho and the level of preparedness of related project components at the
time of appraisal. It is also apparent that at project start-up, LHDA was not sufficiently
ready to implement a project of this complexity and that with its predominant focus on
engineering and infrastructure, the Authority was not well positioned to carry out
effectively the project's environmental and social programs. A project design which
would have entrusted some of these components to strengthen Government ministries and
agencies already active in these fields, might have helped to ensure that they would have
received greater attention early on.
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
Summary Assessment
14. The project achieved its main objectives of: (a) developing the water resources in
the highlands of Lesotho by successfully completing the project civil works; (b)
generating export revenues from the sale of water to South Africa; and (c) producing
hydropower. It also met many of its environmental and social objectives although



5
success in these areas has been uneven, and where it was realized, it was usually late.
The project was successful in preparing the ground for phase 1B of LHWP. Some
positive impact was also achieved from investments supported by the Development Fund.
15. Implementation of the project was completed about nine months later than
originally scheduled. Final project cost of US$2.6 billion exceeded appraisal estimates
by about 9% in US dollar terms. In Maloti terms, final costs were some 27% higher than
forecast. The cost overrun was mainly due to increases in interest during construction
and related financial expenditures (such as the cost of hedging all the foreign currency
obligations entered into under the project's water transfer component), and because of the
need to add some construction works. For a project of this size and complexity, the cost
increases approved and time extensions granted are considered to be fairly negligible.
Civil Works Components
16. Water Transfer Investments. The project successfully completed all civil works
required under this component, including the concrete double curvature arch dams at
Katse and Muela; the tunnel to transfer the stored water from Katse to Muela; the
delivery tunnel from Muela to the crossover point to RSA; and construction of new
access roads, rehabilitation of existing roads and provision of other infrastructure such as
work camps, staff housing, communication systems and power supply. Associated tunnel
construction within South Africa (not financed under the project, and implemented by
TCTA) has also been completed.
17. Impoundment of Katse dam started during October 1995, and on January 22, 1998
the water transfer component was inaugurated by King Letsi III of Lesotho and President
Mandela of RSA. The Katse reservoir filled by March 1998, is presently close to its full
supply level and transferring 18.7 m3/sec water to RSA. By March 1999, Lesotho had
earned Maloti 370 million (US$60 million, at March 1999 exchange rate) since water
delivery started in January 1998.
18. Completion of Katse dam and the transfer and delivery tunnels was delayed by
about nine months. Costs exceeded original contract prices by about 15%. The main
reasons for the higher costs were unanticipated needs for: (a) concrete lining of the
transfer tunnel; (b) deepening of the foundation of Katse dam; and (c) associated design
changes during implementation, as recommended by the Panel of Experts financed from
the IBRD Loan. Also adding to the cost was the decision to provide for a "preformed
joint" to reduce uplift pressure below the central cantilevers of the arch and thus relieve
possible stresses in the dam structure..
19. Muela Hydropower Complex. The Muela hydropower station has been completed
at its design capacity of 72 megawatt, and since October 1998 the plant is delivering
electricity to the Lesotho Electricity Corporation. Some surplus electricity has been
exported to South Africa. Power produced by the complex is expected to keep Lesotho
self-sufficient in energy for the coming years.
20. Completion of the hydropower component was delayed for more than 18 months
due mainly to difficulties in obtaining financing. The delay made it necessary to



6
construct a by-pass at Muela to ensure timely water delivery to RSA in line with Water
Treaty requirements. This together with increased excavation requirements at the right
abutment for stability and safety, and design changes during construction (such as the
addition of post cooling and surge shaft shape) raised the final component cost by about
28% over original contract prices.
21. Other Infrastructure. The project completed some 295 kilometers of new access
roads and several bridges; rehabilitated existing roads; improved border crossings; and
provided required infrastructure at construction site such as work camps, staff housing,
communication systems and power supply. New and rehabilitated roads were built to
high design standards which will greatly facilitate tourism in the Phase IA project area.
Together with the project's feeder roads (para. 47) they have also enabled easier and
cheaper access for the highland population to the lowlands, which has manifested itself in
greater interchange between the highlands and the lowlands and reduced price
differentials for goods and services between the two regions. The project's other rural
infrastructure programs (paras. 46 and 48) have provided schools and clinics that were
not accessible before or required several days travel to the lowlands.
Dam Safety and Emergency Preparedness
22. Dam Safety. The project took all measures required to meet the provisions of the
Bank's Dam Safety Guidelines: (a) project authorities took care to engage world-
renowned consulting engineering firms to assist in the design and to supervise the
execution of all civil engineering structures; (b) an independent panel of leading
engineering experts reviewed all engineering, technical and dam safety aspects (resulting
in significant design improvements, increased safety, and cost saving measures); (c) well-
known and competent construction firms from around the world executed the
construction of the main project works carrying out good quality control in the process;
(d) extensive monitoring instrumentation was installed and assisted immensely in
monitoring safe behavior of the project structures; (e) LHDA set up a dam safety and
surveillance section, and had the section's staff trained in instrument monitoring; and
(f) operation and maintenance manuals have been prepared, and the Authority has on its
workforce a group of well trained employees who are able to operate and maintain the
project structures according to international standards. Continued professional training
will however be needed, and LHDA's dam safety and surveillance section requires some
further strengthening.
23. Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP). EPPs for Katse and Muela have been well
designed and are in place. They cover all relevant items, such as emergency
identification and evaluation, preventive actions, notification procedures, communication
system, inundation maps and warning systems; and they specify the responsibilities of the
various concerned public agencies and personnel. The EPPs, completed simultaneously
with the project's main structures, are the first prepared under a Bank-assisted dam
project, making Phase IA the first project meeting this requirement of the Bank's
Revised Dam Safety Guidelines of 1996. The Plans are however, still to be tested with
the public at large, as ongoing awareness activities have so far concentrated on public
institutions in the area, such as police and clinics.



7
Environmental Protection
24. EnvironmentalAction Plan (EAP). The original project design included an EAP
concentrating on soil conservation and sedimentation, pilot watershed management,
biological monitoring, environmental monitoring and cultural heritage involving 29
studies funded by the European Development Fund. The environmental impact
assessment on which this program was based had been embedded in the feasibility study
of LHWP as a whole, and was generic in nature. While meeting the Bank's
environmental guidelines in effect at the time of project appraisal, it was not sufficiently
detailed for Phase lA and lacked some crucial elements such as public participation. An
updated EAP was prepared in 1998 reflecting all Phase IA impacts as well as new
priorities and needs since project inception, and including more realistic implementation
schedules. As a result of the uncertainty with the original plan, the majority of the
component sub-projects are delayed.
25. Key environmental activities carried out under the project focus on:
(a) environmental monitoring of construction activities and site rehabilitation; (b) soil
conservation and watershed management; (c) environmental reserves; (d) biological
resources; (e) archaeological sites; (f) palaeontological conservation; (g) water quality
assessment and monitoring; (h) initiating instream flow assessment to exarnine minimum
flow requirements at downstream locations; and (i) environmental awareness programs.
26. Regarding environmental measures related to construction activities,
specifications for environmental protection were included in all main construction
contracts, monitoring was systematically carried out, and all sites were rehabilitated. The
Environmental Panel of Experts (financed from the Loan) found no major problems with
site environmental management or clean-up following accidental spills or mishaps. An
independent audit of post construction environmental conditions is yet to be carried out.
27. Soil conservation and watershed management activities implemented under the
project achieved limited success, as JPTC and LHDA could not reach full agreement on
the objectives and scope of this sub-component. Two catchment-wide studies on the
extent of soil erosion (involving satellite imagery and soil loss modeling) were eventually
approved and implemented. Land use monitoring and aerial photographic surveys have
however not yet started. And a proposal for a long-term program emphasizing
community-based land use planning, education and technology-transfer on soil
conservation is still to be approved.
28. The establishment of environmental reserves experienced considerably delay due
to LHDA capacity constraints and the lack of local infrastructure The initial program
was also inadequately funded. The component has been greatly expanded in the
meantime and is now receiving considerable support with an almost ten-fold increase in
its investment budget. It involves two nature reserves, a cultural development site and an
environmental park, and has a strong focus on eco-tourism. Implementation is
progressing well with the help of local communities, but at the time of the completion
mission, only about 30% of the program had been achieved.



8
29. The project's biological program aimed to determine the effects of the operation
on biological resources in the project area, reduce adverse effects, and increase
knowledge of local fauna and flora. Achievements to date have been substantial: several
areas have been protected, bird species have been mapped and monitored, bird flight
diverters have been attached to power lines, effects of chemicals on wildlife are being
monitored, rare plants have been collected and planted in a Botanical Garden established
by the project at Katse, baseline biological surveys have been prepared and biological
monitoring is being undertaken, effects of the tunnels on fish is being checked, studies
have been completed on the Maloti minnow, and limnnological conditions are being
monitored.
30.  The project's archeological objectives included protection of archeological sites
against deleterious project impacts, and use of archeological resources for community
and public awareness. A number of surveys and analyses were carried out under the
project, and all significant archeological sites in the Phase lA project area are believed to
have been located and evaluated. Where necessary, they were excavated, and valuable
material was removed to safety. A decision on establishing a display unit for the artifacts
is still pending.
31. A palaeontological conservation component was included in the project after the
feasibility study established presence of fossil remains in the sedimentary rocks within
the project scheme area. A survey and assessment were prepared, and fossils were
collected. As with the archeological component, a decision is yet to be taken on
financing a display unit for the collected material.
32. The quality of water delivered to RSA is covered in the Water Treaty (para. 4),
which requires GOL to ensure that the quality of water delivered to RSA is equivalent to
the quality prior to project implementation. In line with this requirement, the project was
to establish a long-term water quality database, monitor specific quality parameters, and
establish local expertise in sampling, analysis and program management. The baseline
study was completed in 1993. Water quality at construction sites has been monitored
regularly and corrective action taken. Where necessary, routine water quality sampling is
being undertaken by LHDA staff and analyses are being carried out by Rand Water - the
client for the water delivered to RSA. The component was not fully effective in
developing all necessary skills and facilities in LHDA, and the program was largely
ineffective between 1993 and 1996 when LHDA carried out the work entirely on its own.
Monitoring improved markedly in 1996 when Rand Water made its facilities and staff
available for training and analysis.
33.  Instreamflow requirements. The 1990 EAP did not acknowledged the need for
investigating instream flow requirements (IFR). That need was, however, recognized as
part of Phase lB preparation and the current IFR study was initiated in 1997. The study
includes both Phase IA and Phase lB of LHWP, and it is based on a detailed assessment
of flow requirements at eight river sites below existing and proposed structures. The
scope of the study includes social issues, public health, water supply and livestock use of
the river, as well as various biological requirements. IFR estimates will be available later
in early 2000. While the study will provide the monitoring parameters and basis for a



9
monitoring system, possibilities for changing the design of Phase IA structures will be
limited at this stage. However, it will be useful for Phase 1B and further phases.
34. Environmental awareness. The EAP placed great importance on environmental
awareness among various sectors of the public, with a target of reaching 18,000 people in
more than 300 villages through public gatherings, radio broadcasts, videos and films,
pamphlets and newspapers, and dramas. From 1992 to 1997, the awareness program was
implemented with only an environmental officer and a technical assistant at LHDA' s
disposal. A number of meetings were held with highland groups and at schools, and
pamphlets and a book were distributed, but detailed records on the activities have not
been kept, and the great imbalance between the target and staff input raises doubts about
the effectiveness of the program. Provision of funds by the European Union in 1997 led
to the engagement of a resident program manager and an expatriate technical officer, and
to the production of a master plan, an instructional video, as well as a video drama for the
programn and a radio serial. The overall objective of this sub-component is, however, still
not being fully met.
Social Development
35. The project financed resettlement and compensation programs to recompense
persons affected by it for lost income and assets. It also included an income restoration
and rural development program to restore productive capacity of project-affected persons
so that they might benefit from new opportunities created by LHWP. Specific sub-
projects concentrated on: (a) production activities such as livestock, horticulture, fisheries
and forestry; (b) rural infrastructure including roads, water supply and sanitation, rural
electrification and tourism development; and (c) education and skills training. The
project financed a public health program in the project area.
36. The project's involuntary resettlement program expected initially to resettle 173
households. In the end, inundation at Katse together with road construction activities and
provision of other infrastructure, including power lines, required the resettlement or
relocation of 294 households, three schools and a church. In addition, reservoir-induced
seismicity at Mapeleng village resulted in the relocation of 63 of the 70 village
households, with the remaining seven opting for replacement houses at the same location.
Implementation of the program has been completed including the seven households under
a power-line.
37. Replacement houses provided under the project are of higher quality than the
original homes of the resettled households. But insufficient advance planning left little
room for involvement of project affected persons in the design of housing specifications;
and scant attention was paid to local customary practices that integrate functionality with
esthetics. A key limitation of the program was the requirement that households resettle
within the project area, a limitation which has been removed under the ongoing Phase lB.
38. The project's compensation program comprised individual entitlements, mainly
for the loss of land, and compensation for the loss of communal assets, mainly communal
grazing areas. For individuals, the project established 3,260 entitlements to compensate
for the loss of about 78 hectares of agricultural land. The initial plan was to provide grain



10
as annual compensation payment for a period of 15 years with the expectation that the
project's rural development program would then provide adequate income earning
possibilities. The program was amended in the context of Phase l B preparation and now
grants entitlements for 50 years. It also currently provides an option of land-for-land
exchange, and an option of annual payment in cash instead of grain. For communal
grazing areas, a fodder entitlement was initially created for a period of five years. At the
end of this period it was assumed that with the establishment of grazing associations
under the rural development program, the quality of range would be restored to pre-
impact levels and thereby obviate the need for continued fodder delivery. This
assumption has been abandoned as sufficient new grazing areas were not established
during Phase IA implementation (para. 42), and the compensation period has been
extended to 50 years, the same as for individual entitlements.
39. After some initial start-up problems, the compensation program is now operating
satisfactorily, but the 50 year duration of payments together with the de-linking of
compensation from income generation has created a quasi welfare and entitlement
culture. As a result, few beneficiaries have opted for land-for-land exchange, and even
for land that was acquired only on a temporary basis, the initial owners are now reluctant
to re-occupy the fields for fear that they lose their entitlements. An additional problem
with the program is the lack of information on the long-term transaction cost for running
a 50-year undertaking of this sort.
40. Fodder deliveries to compensate for lost communal grazing areas encountered some
quality problems, and the program has recently been shifted to cash compensation.
Under the new arrangement, communities are however required to prepare sustainable
development proposals to obtain such compensation. Preparation of viable proposals is
experiencing some start up problems, but this shift will help in mainstreaming
participatory development planning with the local communities, and in building local
capacity for planning, implementing and managing long-term development programs.
41. The project's income restoration and rural development program was designed to
enable project-affected persons to reconstruct lost sources of livelihood and to allow host
communities to avail themselves of the program to improve their standard of living.
Pursuant to this objective, the program was structured on the following three axis:
production, education, and infrastructure.
42. Regardingproduction, the project provided for livestock and range management,
mountain horticulture and field crops, fisheries, village forestry and land-use planning.
To manage uncontrolled grazing the project had some success in establishing grazing
associations increasing the number of members to 1,258 in the project area, and it
introduced improved breeds of livestock, especially cattle. The project also increased the
members participating in the horticulture/field crops intensification program by 35 to 45,
focusing on the production of seed potatoes, cabbages, fruit trees and maize. As regards
fisheries, ten villagers have been trained in subsistence fishing, and a feasibility study on
trout farming in Katse reservoir is being completed.
43. The impact of these activities on living standards in the project area has been
limited as the programs suffered from significant delays and a supply-driven approach



11
characterized by inadequate market analysis, insufficient involvement of the private
sector in project design, limited understanding of the comparative advantage of the
highlands economy, and lacking evaluation of the different schemes during
implementation.
44. Initial attempts to establish a village forestry program with the Ministry of
Agriculture were not successful. After CARE took over in 1996, 75 village committees
were created and 109,000 trees have been planted, with a survival rated reported at 60%.
The land-use planning program was designed to provide orderly development in the
scheme area. Ten plans have been prepared covering 45 villages, but there is no tangible
output to show on the ground.
45. Regarding the project's education program, skills training at the rural development
center in Thaba Tseka constituted a central component of the Phase IA income
restoration strategy. While 1,146 project-affected persons have attended courses at the
center, there is weak evidence to support that these trainees are actually using the
acquired skills in some gainful activity. The model of on-campus training was too supply
driven and ill-adapted for adults with family obligations. In recognition of this, LHDA is
now changing its role in this area from producer to facilitator of training. This shift will
enable the Authority to restructure the program to be more responsive to the needs of
affected persons.
46.  The project's rural inftastructure program focused on investments directed towards
construction communities, village water supply, sanitation, feeder roads electrification
and tourism. Infrastructure investments in construction communities were designed to
accommodate the influx of workers into the community. An additional objective was to
extend the facilities to neighboring villages so that these villages might benefit from
efficiencies that such infrastructure would provide. The latter objective was not achieved
because the siting of construction sites was not driven to build on such efficiencies, as
most of them were far from villages. Construction communities delivered however
markets, schools, creches, community halls including offices, water supply and other
local community infrastructure such as bus stops. Village water supply was expected to
be provided to both resettled households and host communities. Due to cost overruns the
program has so far covered only 40% of the intended 143 villages. Rural sanitation
aimed at enhancing water quality and improving health in the highlands. By the time of
the completion mission, only 15% of the intended villages had been provided with the
proposed facilities. Discussions are on-going between JPTC and LHDA to complete both
the water supply and sanitation programs.
47. The rural feeder roads program delivered 95 kilometers of roads, two vehicular
bridges and two footbridges. Rural electrification targeted villages in proximity of
existing power sources located at construction sites and camps. The program never took
off, however, since the high cost of operation and maintenance after the project
construction phase rendered it economically unviable. Tourism investments similarly
never got started due to the lack of a promoter. The only significant achievement to date
is the development of two information centers. Yet in view of the unique tourism
opportunities created by Katse reservoir, this element of the project is now being re-
vamped with possible support from the African Development Bank; and a Katse zoning



12
project is being tendered to provide guidelines for a comprehensive tourism development
program.
48.  The project's public health program aimed at strengthening health services in the
project area and addressing health problems associated with the arrival of the
construction work force. Achievements include the staffing of three health teams,
installation of a trauma unit at the Leribe hospital, establishment of contractor clinics,
organization of 14 village-based nutrition groups, and provision of latrines and of pipe-
born potable water at 30 and 20 schools, respectively. The health teams carried out
several health campaigns; the trauma unit alone admitted some 8,600 patients over a five
year period and treated 11,900 cases on an outpatient basis; and awareness campaigns
were organized against communicable diseases. As regards occupational health and
safety policy, 25 fatalities were recorded during construction, a remarkable record given
the magnitude of the project. On the other hand, many minor injuries occurred due to
weak adherence to personal protection procedures; and 12 persons have been reported
drowned in Katse lake and two electrocuted in the scheme area despite an extensive
community accident prevention program.
49. Monitoring. Under the Water Treaty, LHDA is required to monitor the social and
economic impacts of the project on the affected people. A program has been initiated
involving a household survey which is complemented by participatory monitoring and
evaluation. The survey is conducted annually covering one third of the affected
population on a rotating basis. While the absence of reliable baseline data has made it
difficult to determine accurately the complete impact of the project, the surveys have
been helpful in tracking trends.
Institution Building
50. LHDA's capacity to manage the project and operate project facilities has
dramatically improved during project implementation. Staff has been strengthened and
quality has been upgraded, where necessary, to meet project requirements; more than 500
staff have been trained; and expatriates in managerial positions have almost completely
been replaced by Basotho staff. Overall, the share of expatriates in LHDA's work force
has been reduced from 16% in 1990/91 to less than 4% at present.
51. To assist LHDA in preparing for the time of operating the project's water transfer
and hydropower components, an Organization and Manpower Study was carried out
using IBRD Loans funds. Together with a subsequent Transformation Project initiated
by LHDA the study provided the basis for a major restructuring of the institution in 1998,
and re-orienting LHDA from an engineering to a service-oriented organization. The
reorganization of LHDA also resulted in clearer lines of decision making, increased
accountability, and better performance measurement. Problems resulting from excessive
centralization of LHDA in Maseru, especially of its Environmental and Social Services
Group, have been addressed through the establishment of four field office branches in the
project area.
52. The structural relationship between the LHDA and the JPTC has been unwieldy
and slowed project progress. JPTC, responsible for monitoring project implementation,



13
was set up to safeguard the interests of both GOL and RSA. With South Africa being
liable for all costs of the project's main component (i.e., all water transfer investments),
but having no say in day-to-day management, the JPTC became the organ through which
to exercise some control over project expenditures - especially those with ambiguity as to
whether they were attributable to the main project component or whether they were of a
general development nature. This led to the JPTC's involvement in routine decision-
making, micro-management, delays, and cumbersome procedures due to the need to get
agreement among the parties on relatively minor issues. To streamline implementation in
the future, a new governance structure has now been agreed upon in the context of Phase
I B. Under it, JPTC retains ultimate accountability but shifts more to policy formulation
and strategic functions, and to monitoring of key outputs and outcomes, while LHDA has
been given a clearer mandate for project implementation within agreed limits
53. The project study on Management Accounting and Information Systems helped in
the on-going effort to establish an effective accounting system and performance
indicators. However, it focused on activity-based costing which could not be readily
applied. Therefore both LHDA and JPTC refined the principle of cost allocation
approach that was finally adopted. The study also assisted in the creation of improved
management reports. More remains to be done in developing user-friendly reports,
strengthening monitoring, establishing adequate databases, and integrating appropriate
monitoring and performance indicators in management reports. To deal with some of
these issues, LHDA has adopted and implemented the SAP system (Systems,
Applications, and Products in Data Processing) as the organization's single computer
system for core business and administrative processes. LHDA is producing financial
statements and is being audited by independent auditors in a regular and timely manner.
Development Fund
54. Another objective of the project was to make productive use of the project-
generated export revenues by directing them to community-driven development projects.
A Development Fund was established for this purpose in 1992, but problems quickly
emerged on reaching agreement on Fund management and organization. Once deposits
were made into the Fund and available for projects in 1995, the lack of transparent
criteria and procedures became significant bottlenecks. In 1995/96, the Fund was
restructured and re-directed towards poverty-focused development projects. About 240
projects were approved at a total cost of Maloti 215 million and have been or are being
completed. They cover a variety of investments, mainly roads, bridges, clinics, markets
and small dams.
55. The projects financed by the Development Fund fostered public investment in the
rural areas, increasing access to public services and creating significant short-term
employment. However, a number of problems such as inadequate criteria for project
approval and for poverty targeting, as well as poor construction quality and inadequate
operations and maintenance, hampered the effective use of the Fund resources. After a
lengthy consultation process involving all key stakeholders, a new fund, the Lesotho
Fund for Community Development, was set up in March 1999. The new Fund, which
will receive 40% of the revenues generated by the project (60% will go into general
Government revenues to make up for the removal of SACU funding and to meet other



14
financing requirements), will be managed by a multi-stakeholder independent board that
will include representatives from GOL, NGOs, communities, parastatals and the private
sector. Fund operations, including project selection criteria, have been established; and
the hiring of a professional management team has been initiated. To foster effective
management of the Fund and to pilot a national poverty survey, IDA will provide a
US$4.7 million Learning and Innovation Loan which will finance technical assistance for
the Fund.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
56. Political Changes. When the project was appraised in 1990, Lesotho was ruled by
a military govermnent, and South Africa was governed under the apartheid system.
Namibia had just become independent. The Bank had sought and received assurances
from the African National Congress (ANC; in exile in Lusaka) and from the Namibian
govemment that there would be no objection to the project. In 1993, military rule ended
in Lesotho; and in 1994 RSA held its all-race elections which brought a new government
under ANC leadership into power. These developments had a positive affect on the
project by: (a) increasing the legitimacy of both governments' interactions on the project;
(b) refocusing RSA's attention on providing better access to water to the entire
population (so that it was not primarily driven by demand growth in the industrial and
white consumers sector, but also seen as a way to increase water availability for those
without access); and (c) bringing new emphasis on regional development with LHWP
seen as vehicle for regional integration and as a model for cross-national cooperation.
The present govemrnents of RSA, Lesotho, and Namibia have all endorsed the project.
57. Labor Unrest. While the number of days lost due to strikes (about 1.5%) has been
low for a project of this magnitude, labor problems have affected project implementation
and resulted in changing LHDA's approach to labor issues. Most labor problems related
to pay disputes; inexperienced labor unions; charges of racism, of unequal treatment of
domestic and foreign workers, and of insufficient promotion of Basotho workers; high
expectation by the workforce, divide and rule policies by some contractors, inadequate
enforcement of Lesotho labor laws due to understaffing and inexperience of the
Department of Labor, and inadequate industrial relations monitoring in construction
contracts. One prolonged labor dispute (at the Muela construction site) culminated in
violence and an incident on September 14, 1996 when Lesotho Mountain Police shot and
killed five workers. The main issues in the run-up to this event were the lack of a labor
union at the site; the rise to prominence of a radical worker representatives committee
that made unreasonable demands; the absence of labor law enforcement; a legalistic
approach to problem resolution by the employer; and an ill-equipped police force using
excessive force. At the insistence of the Bank and civil society groups, the Government
instituted a judicial inquiry which found that inadequate attempts at mediation and
enforcement of the labor code, poor police training and procedures, and excessive force
were the main causes of the incident. To better deal with labor issues, LHDA now
requires that contractors employ industrial relations experts, and that supervising
engineers provide industrial relations monitors. In addition, LHDA has considerably
increased contractors' obligations on hiring (including the need to hire unskilled workers
from a list of affected persons), on training, on provision of meals, and on health and



15
safety. Moreover, it has strengthened its own industrial relations unit, and is helping the
Department of Labor to improve its capacity.
58. Muela Financing. Disagreement between LHDA and the African Development
Bank (AfDB) over the award of the main construction contract at the Muela hydropower
complex led to the decision by AfDB to withdraw from financing this component. In
addition, because of Muela's low rate of return (para. 75), Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC) pulled out of financing this component. These decisions and the time
required to secure financing from other sources were the main reasons for the one and
one half year delay in completing this part of the project. The delay, in turn, was the
main reason for the significant cost increase in this component, especially as it
necessitated accelerated construction of the Muela by-pass to ensure timely water
delivery to RSA in accordance with the Water Treaty. Moreover, the need to arrange
alternative financing at shorter terms and higher interest rates than those offered by AfDB
and CDC, are at the heart of the cash-flow problems that the hydropower component is
currently experiencing (para. 63).
59. Needfor Concrete Lining of the Transfer Tunnel. In the pre-tender period
opinions diverged as to the length of concrete lining necessary in the transfer tunnel. The
Panel of Experts recommended that tender documents be prepared on the assumption that
the whole length of the tunnel would be concrete lined, and suggested that provision be
made for partial deletion of the lining during construction. This recommendation was not
implemented and the tender document only made provision for 14% of the tunnel to be
lined. The decision to delete all lining prior to tendering proved costly as the contractor
at the site could charge non-competitive prices once the necessity of additional lining
arose during construction. The result was a delay in transfer of water by about one year
and a cost increase of Maloti 350 million.
60. Lining Issues at the Delivery Tunnel. There was great concern about the
durability of the Clarens sandstone formation for the 15 kilometer long delivery tunnel
through the sandstone. Exploratory adits at the Muela powerhouse and Hololo crossing
indicated soft sandstone that was likely to degrade, while a comprehensive testing
program showed that the Clarens sandstone was generally sound and stable and did not
require extensive permanent tunnel supports, thus, greatly reducing the concrete lining.
This extensive testing program, undertaken right in time, resulted in considerable cost
savings as compared to the pessimistic overall lining proposal, and it led to timely
completion of the work.
61. ReservoirInduced Seismicity (RIS). RIS measuring up to 3.3 on the Richter scale
was experienced following the filling of Katse reservoir. The RIS was reviewed by the
Engineering PoE who concluded that there was no adverse effect on the safety or
operation of the project, but it did recommend enhanced monitoring which LHDA has
implemented. However, the RIS impacted adversely the villages adjacent to the
reservoir, requiring the construction of replacement houses at Mapeleng village and
substantial repairs to houses in other villages, and creating adverse publicity for the
project.



16
F. Project Sustainability
62. The operational plan presently being implemented for the project's water transfer
component is adequate to ensure the sustainability of the benefits reaped from this
component. Management, organizational and financial arrangements are in place to
operate and maintain the facilities; appropriate dam safety measures have also been
implemented, and commitment to the effective operation of the component is high in both
Lesotho and RSA.
63. Sustainability is also likely for the Muela hydropower complex, but there are a
number of financial issues that need to be sorted out. LHDA, is not in a position to
service the debt associated with Muela, and to pay outstanding contractor bills.
(Servicing the substantially larger debt related to the water transfer investments is the
responsibility of RSA through its agent, TCTA.) LHDA's cash-flow problems, stemming
mainly from the decision by AfDB and CDC to withdraw from Muela financing (para.
58), are particularly severe in the current financial year when Maloti 350 million need to
be paid. GOL is presently reviewing various alternatives to assist in reducing LHDA's
financial burden, but considerable additional financing will be required to enable LHDA
to restore its financial soundness. There is the additional problem that the Lesotho
Electricity Corporation (LEC) to which the generated power is sold, suffers also from a
poor financial situation and has not yet paid LHDA for its electricity. And finally there is
the issue of energy pricing. LHDA's electricity charges, which are based on a 1993
power sales agreement, are considerably above the rates of ESKOM, the RSA power
utility, and are therefore not sustainable.
64. The project's other infrastructure components, such as access roads, labor camps
and staff housing are expected to be sustainable. However, some roads are still being
maintained by the contractor, and hand-over arrangements to the Department of Works
will be completed only after Phase lB has been implemented. Since the roads have been
built to high standards, operations and maintenance cost to the Government will be
significant once maintenance becomes the responsibility of the Public Works
Department, and providing adequate O&M budgets may become an issue. Finding a
resolution to this problem is now receiving attention from GOL with support from the
Development Bank of Southern Africa which has been a major financier of these
investments.
65.  Water quality monitoring under the project's environmental program is likely to
be sustainable. For the other environmental components, sustainability is less certain.
Several components such as the establishment of reserves, are in early stages of
implementation, while for others, such as soil conservation and watershed management,
much more community involvement is required to make them sustainable. In addition,
for sustained management of the environmental reserves and the fisheries program, it will
be essential to develop greater institutional capacity.
66. Regarding the project's social investments, the resettlement program is likely to be
sustained. But LHDA has yet to transfer ownership of the houses to the beneficiaries --
who continue to demand repairs and other improvements to be carried out by the
Authority - and needs to set a cut-off date. For the compensation program, LHDA has



17
reserved the funds required to sustain the 50-year compensation program. However,
long-term institutional arrangements for the delivery of the entitlements are yet to be
established. Moreover, with such a quasi-welfare program, there is the danger that the
present pattern of dependency could continue over the 50-year time frame. To avoid this,
the compensation program needs to better integrated with effective income restoration
and rural development activities.
67. There is considerable uncertainty as to whether the income generation and the rural
development program supported under the project are sustainable. For the production
program it would be necessary to develop a new strategic approach based on the
comparative advantage of the highlands, greater involvement of the beneficiaries and the
private sector in program design, and better assessment of market constraints and of
possibilities to reduce them. Education efforts must similarly be re-designed in line with
real employment opportunities and better use of existing training institutes. And for
investments made in rural infrastructure, sustainability will require that LHDA finalize
arrangements with concerned Government agencies and local communities to hand over
the facilities, and that the agencies and communities are strengthening or, where
necessary, developing their capacity to operate and maintain them.
68. For the public health program, sustainability will similarly depend on the ability to
integrate the project health facilities and teams into the national health delivery system.
In the longer-term, it will also depend on the Government's ability to implement a system
of user fees to cover costs and move away from the present process of subsidized health
delivery. Sustainability of the Development Fund will largely depend on the
effectiveness of the new management and organizational arrangements now being put in
place (para. 52).
G. Bank Performance
69. Bank performance was overall satisfactory. In spite of its small contribution to
project financing (less than 5% of project cost), the Bank was able to play a significant
and catalytic role in project design during all initial phases including identification,
preparation, and appraisal. The Bank provided both technical and financial support
which sent strong signals to international contractors and financial institutions indicating
that the project was both feasible and desirable, and thereby helping in raising the large
amount of financing required by the project. Bank involvement furthermore provided
comfort to international investors that the project would be meeting high standards.
70. The Bank's participation helped in strengthening regional co-ordination, and by
consulting with RSA's political majority while South Africa was governed under
apartheid policies, the Bank also helped establish broad political support for the
operation. Moreover, Bank participation provided reassurance to both Lesotho and RSA
that the two countries had an objective partner to help resolve conflicts if and when they
arose.
71. During supervision, the Bank provided extensive and valuable technical support to
project authorities, helping greatly in ensuring that LHDA and JPTC gave increasing
attention to the social and environmental issues that arose during project implementation.



18
The Bank was also instrumental in getting appropriate decisions taken on several critical
institutional issues, such as decentralizing some of LHDA's operations, and re-designing
the governance structure of LHWP. Bank-internal supervision reporting was, however,
not fully satisfactory. All missions prepared detailed and comprehensive aide-memoires,
and they kept management and stakeholders well informed on project progress and
problems, but Project Status Reports (Form 590) were not prepared for more than three
years.
72. The Bank could have been more effective by insisting that the project's
Environmental Impact Assessment and the Environmental Action Plan be prepared in
more detail and with more participation of project-affected persons, before providing
financial support. It could also have recognized earlier the importance of analyzing
instream flow requirements, to ensure that downstream effects of the water transfer
would be more fully considered in project design. Given the weak capacity of LHDA at
the time of appraisal, it would seem that the Bank was too optimistic in its assumptions
about the Authority's capabilities to fully design and implement the project's social and
environmental programs in a timely manner. More consideration might have been given
to involving and strengthening the capacity of Government agencies already active in
these areas. This would have enabled better participation in the planning, design and
implementation stages and it would have helped these agencies to later successfully take
over the project facilities.
H. Borrower Performance
73. LHDA's performance on the whole has been very satisfactory, especially if one
considers the weak implementation capacity of the institution during preparation and
start-up of this multipurpose project, involving about one hundred engineering,
construction and advisory contracts. During project preparation, LHDA took an active
role in defining the project's technical assistance requirements and organizational
arrangements, and it developed effective programs for training Basotho staff and to
enable them to move into managerial positions. With a heavy emphasis on the project's
engineering and construction aspects, LHDA did not give sufficient attention to the
environmental and social facets of the operation during early project implementation.
The programs were also not fully designed at project inception, participation of affected
populations was negligible, and capabilities within the organization to deal with these
matters was especially underdeveloped. Implementation delays and the need to re-design
these components were the result together with large numbers of grievance cases and
criticism by NGOs. LHDA has fully recognized these shortcomings and has largely
overcome them by making major remedial efforts, including organizational changes, staff
increases and improved coordination with local communities and NGOs. The shift in
emphasis has significantly benefited the design and early implementation of Phase lB.
I. Assessment of Outcome
74. Project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project's main objective related to
water delivery to SAR has been fully met and is sustainable. The technical aspects were
well conceived, planned, designed and executed and with proper operation and
maintenance can be expected to perform as intended. Regarding hydro-power



19
development at Muela, physical objectives have been met, but some financial issues are
yet to be resolved (para. 63). Problems in meeting objectives have been experienced in
several of the project's environmental and social components, where expectations have
not always been met and where timely delivery has been an issue in several instances.
For the latter components sustainability is also not always certain, an issue that is being
pursued under the ongoing Phase l B. The Development Fund, similarly, did not fully
achieve what was intended. To better target Fund resources a new facility, the Lesotho
Fund for Community Development, was set up in March 1999. IDA will provide a
US$4.7 million Learning and Innovation Loan which will finance technical assistance for
the new Fund.
75. Regarding the project's economic performance, the overall economic rate of return
(ERR) has been re-estimated at about 16.4%, approximately 1% higher than forecast at
appraisal. For the water transfer component the re-estimated ERR is 16.8%, also about
1% above the appraisal estimate. For the hydro-power investments, on the other hand,
the ERR is re-estimated at 3.1 % only about half of the appraisal ERR of 6%. Due to its
small size relative to the water transfer component, the Muela power complex has only a
small impact on the economic rate of return of the project as a whole.
76. There are two major reasons for the significant reduction in the ERR for the Muela
component: first, the 30% fall in the real price of electricity from ESKOM (due mainly
to over-capacity), has made the Muela electricity relatively more expensive than foreseen
at appraisal; and second the delay in implementing the component and the cost increases
associated with that delay (para. 20), has made the Muela operation more costly than had
been expected.
77. The re-estimated ERR for the water component is higher than forecast at appraisal
although costs increased above appraisal estimates, and water demand has been lower
than expected (largely because of the drought in 1994/95 and the water usage restrictions
imposed as a result). However, the impact of these factors on the component ERR has
been more than off-set by the increase in the value of project water to consumers. This
increase stems from the higher water prices introduced in response to the 1994/95
drought and as a result of demand management measures undertaken by RSA to bring
prices closer to their economic value. The investments made under the project continue
also to be the most cost-effective alternative among various possible water transfer
schemes, especially if one considers that some of the Phase 1A construction has been
undertaken with Phase lB in mind.
78. Other macro and micro economic project outcomes include: Phase 1A project
activities and the economic spin-offs they generated accounted for about 14% of
Lesotho's GDP in 1994, a peak construction year. They also accounted for some 40% of
value-added in the building and construction sector, and provided about 18% of
Government revenues which was a critical element in the Government's ability to turn
the large budget deficit of the late 1980s into a surplus. Royalties of Maloti 370 million
earned to date from the project have however been less than expected at appraisal, largely
due to the fall in the real price of electricity (based upon which variable royalties are
adjusted), and because of a hydrology that yields lower royalty revenues than forecast at
appraisal. In contrast, project revenues generated from the project under the Southern



20
Africa Customs Union have been higher than what was expected at appraisal, amounting
to Maloti 760 million to date. Phase IA generated some 22,000 person years of
employment, some 10% more than was anticipated; and almost 300 additional jobs for
Basotho nationals were created at LHDA. The project also created some Maloti 100
million in demand for supplies from Basotho companies, and Maloti 85 million in sub-
contracting opportunities and consultancy contracts. The latter were below expectations
in part because of a lack of competency in the Basotho business sector, and since there
were no incentives for contractors to rely on Basotho firms. Significant efforts to address
these issues are being made under Phase I B, and they seem to be paying off already.
J. Future Operations
79. Future operation of Phase IA will receive continued and extensive attention under
the ongoing Phase lB project. At project closing LHDA had in place the organizational
and staffing arrangements, and had drafted operating manuals and procedures to
effectively operate and maintain the project's water transfer and hydro-power
components. A dam safety surveillance section had been set up and an adequate
emergency preparedness plan had been developed. A number of financial issues were
however yet to be resolved to ensure the future performance of the Muela hydro-power
complex (para. 63).
80. Regarding the future operation of the project's other infrastructure investments and
social and environmental programs, LHDA is now developing an operating plan,
including appropriate hand-over arrangements to communities and concerned
Government agencies. Several of the programs, which are yet to be completed, are being
carried over into Phase lB which focuses on ensuring that their continuation, where
justified, will be pursued in a sound manner.
K. Key Lessons Learned
81. A number of lessons which are important especially for future phases of LHWP
have been learned together with several lessons that are of broader significance. They
have been integrated into the design of Phase 1B.
82.  The broader lessons are:
(i) The project demonstrates that the Bank can play a unique role and add significant
value even where it finances only a small portion of project costs. In the present case, the
Bank committed less than 5% to project financing, but the parties involved, especially the
governments of Lesotho and RSA thought Bank participation to be crucial for ensuring
that the project met sound economic, technical, dam safety and environmental standards,
and for obtaining broad international support. The two governments also saw the Bank
as a valuable independent partner who would give objective advice, and who could foster
regional cooperation in an operation that depended so much on it. During project
implementation also, the Bank demonstrated that it added significant value in spite of its
small financial contribution. It effectively advised on all project aspects including the
ones financed by others, and it was able to direct significant attention to the operation's



21
environmental and social issues which were in jeopardy of receiving inadequate
consideration;
(ii) The project illustrates that two factors require careful consideration when designing
and implementing transnational projects. First, there must be clear and equitable sharing
of costs and benefits, and second, there needs to be a separation of governance and
oversight functions from implementation. On the first issue, there was sometimes lack of
clarity in Phase IA, as to what share of the project's social and environmental programs
was attributable to the water transfer component and should therefore be funded by RSA,
and what share was of a general development nature and should be financed by Lesotho.
On the second issue, JPTC's involvement in routine decisions encumbered project
progress, until its role and the role of LHDA were re-defined (para. 52);
(iii) The project underscores the risks associated with establishing a new agency for
implementing a particular project, especially a high-profile operation such as LHWP.
Moreover, the project highlights that such risks are magnified if that implementing
agency is assigned responsibilities that are only indirectly related to the project, that are
normally the concern of other public sector organizations, and that require the continued
support of government. Where it is contemplated to assign such responsibilities, there
has to be a clear justification, activities/investments have to be consistent with existing
government policies and standards, and there has to be an exit plan. Under Phase IA,
better employment conditions offered by LHDA resulted in a drain of capacity from
Government as many employees were recruited from Government ministries and
agencies. Now that LHDA is trying to transfer some of the project investments and
programs to other Government entities, there is also reluctance by employees to return to
their previous units. What is more, the agencies and communities expected to take over
the investments/programs, are hesitant to do so since they were not always sufficiently
consulted and because they are uncertain about the financial implications and their ability
to finance future operation and maintenance;
(iv) The project illustrates the benefits that can be derived from appropriate expert input
into implementation. Both the Panel of Experts on the water transfer component and the
Panel of Experts advising on the project's environmental and social programs provided
valuable recommendations that impacted on the design of these components and in the
case of the water transfer investments resulted in significant cost savings; and
(v) Problems experienced in implementing the project's environmental and social
program point towards the importance of advance planning, including the preparation of
sound Environmental Impact Assessments (covering also instream flow requirements)
and of Environmental Action Plans prior to project start-up, to ensure that these
components get off to a timely and effective start. They also highlight that community
participation is essential in component design and execution and that NGOs and the
private sector have a crucial role to play especially in the development of sustainable
income generation activities of affected persons.



22
83.  The relevant lessons particularlyfor the next stages of I,HWP include:
Lessons related to contracting and contractor relations
*  the need to include in all works contracts enhanced provisions for environmental
management and monitoring, local contractor development, training of local
professional staff including engineers, labor relations, health and safety standards,
and employment of affected communities.
*  the desirability of separating bid prices from contractor financing (the Phase 1A
policy where bidders were asked to submit a combined bid and financing offer, rather
than a cash price and separate financing, proved to be a less than optimal solution);
*  the advantage of arranging pre-bid meetings with potential bidders and local
contractors and suppliers to enhance local participation; the benefit of breaking
contracts into smaller units and of simplifying bidding documents to foster such
participation; and the need for a better dialogue between LHDA and the local
business community, and for enhanced information flow and monitoring of local
involvement;
*  the advantage of awarding construction supervision contracts for major resource
projects to the project design firms in order to ensure continued liability, design
assumptions, criteria and coordination, and continuity of service; and
*  the benefit of dealing with contractor claims in a timely manner, and of establishing a
disputes resolution board to avoid costly litigation and arbitration;
Lessons related to the design of works
v  the importance of identifying at the feasibility stage the potential of reservoir-induced
seismicity, and of determining the villages that might be affected by it, and of early
installation of measuring instruments and conducting of public information
campaigns in the area;
*  the desirability of providing for concrete lining from the outset for all future water
tunnels of LHWP, where conditions so warrant;
*  the need for full integration of construction and resettlement activities;
Lessons related to social and environmental matters
the need to focus on affected persons and not on households for resettlement and
compensation purposes (working with households as the unit of analysis has proven
to be problematic due to frequent fragmentation of households as a function of
marriage, breakup, etc.);



23
*  the advantage of providing more options to individuals and communities for
resettlement and compensation, and of better targeting households for income
restoration;
*  the value of effective complaint management through field teams and an appropriate
conflict resolution mechanism;
* the importance of partnering with communities in the design of social project
components, and of continued in depth consultation with communities in
implementation and monitoring;
*  the importance of preparing prior to implementing any further phase of LHWP, a
detailed Environmental Impact Assessment and a comprehensive Environmental
Action Plan directly related to the activities of that phase with full participation by
affected communities and NGOs.
Lessons related to management and organization
* the necessity to nurture at LHDA an organization and culture that is service-oriented
and responsive to community needs; and
*  the need to strengthen management and project selection procedures of the
Development Fund, and to provide for greater community involvement in identifying
projects to be supported by the Fund.
*  The value of putting in place management systems that effectively respond to the
complexities of the project with its wide spectrum of activities and its unique
governance structure.



24
LESOTHO
HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT
(Loan 3393 - LSO)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial    Negligible  Notapplicable
(/)     (wf) GO                  (//)
Macro policies                _
Sector policies
Financial objectives          _
Institutional development                  /
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Other (capacity building)     =                        =
B. Project Sustainability       Likely            Unlikely         Uncertain
(I)               (i)               (I)
GO                 OC:
C. Bank performance             Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
(i)               (i)               (I)
Identification                  7                  _2]
Preparation assistance        7
Appraisal                                        [
Supervision
D. Borrower performance         Highly
satisfacto        Satisfacto        Deficient
Preparation                   77
Implementation                 VLX
Covenant compliance           7X
Operation
E. Assessment of Outcome   Highly                                     Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(K)           (K)           (K)            (KG
z  E              CG    CZ~L



25
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Y arof   Sas
Loan/Credit title                     Purpose                    Approval
Preceding/Concurrent
Operations*
Lesotho Water Supply    To provide water supply to about 20,000 new   1979      Closed
Project (Credit 887-LSO) consumers in seven towns and improve service to
21,000 existing consumers; to strengthen the Water
and Sewerage Branch of the Ministry of Water,
further develop Lesotho's water resources, and assist
in employment creation.
Lesotho Highlands Water  To develop Phase IA of Lesotho Highlands Water    1986  Closed
Engineering Project     Project from the engineering to the construction
(Credit 1747-LSO)       stage. In particular, the operation aimed at:
(i) developing detailed designs for all project
components and refining the optimization of the
hydropower component; (ii) undertaking further
geological investigations; (iii) preparing bid
documents and criteria for evaluating bids; (iv)
providing technical assistance and training to help
establish and develop the Lesotho Highlands
Development Authority (LHDA); and (v) assisting
_LHDA in securing financing for Phase lA.
Following Operations
Lesotho Highlands Water  To put in place the physical and managerial capacity  1998  Active
Project - Phase lB      for Lesotho to transform its principal natural resource
(Loan 4339-LSO)         of abundance - water - into export revenues that can
be applied to poverty reduction and economic
stability while (i) protecting the environment and
mitigating any adverse social and environmental
impacts and (ii) maximizing the local development
spin-offs of the project in Lesotho; and to assist
South Africa in developing its lowest cost
alternatives for supply of water to the Gauteng
Region.
Lesotho Community       To demonstrate the effectiveness of a demand-driven  2000  Negot-
Development Support     approach to supporting community development  expected  iated
Project (LIL)           through a multi-sectoral special fund; and to
strengthen Lesotho's capacity to monitor the scope
and trends of poverty in the country.



26
Table 3. Project Timetable
Identification                       05/85                       05/85
Preparation                          05/86                       09/86
Appraisal                             11/89                      04/90
Negotiations                          02/91                     05/13/91
Board Presentation                  07/10/91                    07/23/91
Signing                             09/16/91                   09/16/91
Effectiveness                       12/15/91                    05/15/92
Project Completion                  12/31/97                    09/30/98
Loan Closing                        03/31/98                    03/31/99
Table 4. Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
AMk                       _  Y3 F4  Y
Appraisal estimate     24.2    16.5    16.4    17.6    17.2    16.2        1.9      0.0
Actual                  0.0    22.3    11.5    11.5    10.4       5.5      7.2      0.5
Appraisal estimate     24.2    40.7    57.1    74.7    91.9   108.1   110.0    110.0
cumulative
Actual cumulative       0.0    22.3    33.8    45.3    55.7    61.2    68.4        68.9
Actual as % of          0%      55%     59%     61%      61%     57%      62%      63%
estimate
Date of final disbursement: August 31, 1999
US$20 million was cancelled on June 30, 1996; US$16 was cancelled on October 15, 1998. The
remaining balance of US$5.1 was cancelled at loan closing.



27
Table 5. Key Indicators for Physical Achievements
Componeat                         PhysicalKmey IW4#or-                   Acbievemeit
WATER SUPPLYAND HYDRO
POWER
Project Works in Lesotho
Katse Dam and Reservoir          185m high concrete arch type dam at Katse with an
active reservoir storage capacity of 1,519 million  Completed
mi3
Transfer Tunnel                  45km tunnel with a diameter between 4.35m and
4.85mwith an average flow capacity of 30mi3/sec.  Completed
Delivery Tunnel                  15km tunnel segment up to the RSA border with a
5m diameter and an aver. flow capacity of 30m3/s. Completed
Northern Access Road             95km paved road from Pitseng to Katse dam site.  Completed
Southern Access Road             56km of gravel road from Thaba Seka to the Katse
dam site.                                   Completed
North End Access Road            6km of new road and 47km upgraded road to
Hlotse, Hololo, Muela, and Ngoajane.        Completed
Rehabilit. of Existing Access Roads   Rehabilitation of 124km of existing roads.  Completed
Construction Villages at Katse and    Services incl. water supply, sewerage, electricity,
Butha Buthe                      roads, public and commercial buildings, services to
stands and houses.                          Completed
Roads and Border Crossings Facilities Constructing, equipping, operating and maintaining
project-related border crossings and maintaining
existing roads used by the project; constructing a
bridge at Caledonspoort and houses and border post
buildings at Maputsoe and Caledonspoort.    Completed
Construction Power               66km of 132kv steel towers, 32km of 66kv, 37km
of 33kv, and 4.5km of 11 kv lines; 10 substations.  Completed
Communications System            Telecom facilities to all sites              Completed
Hydropower component             Underground power station with72 MW capacity of
3 units, 125km of 132kv transmission lines, a
substation, and a 55m high concrete arch dam at
Muela with a storage capacity of 7.13 million m3.  Completed
Project Works in RSA
Delivery Tunnel North            Two sections: the Caledon tunnel of 1O.1km and
the Ash tunnel of 11.8km. (implemented by TCTA
of RSA; not fmanced under the project).     Completed
ENGINEERING AND
SUPER VISION SER VICES           ___
Construction Supervision and detailed Civil works, Ketse and Muela dams, transfer tunnel
design                           , delivery tunnel, other infrastructure , and  Completed
hydropower facilities.
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT FOR
LHDA AND CONSTRUCTION
SKILLS TRAINING
Support to LHDA                  Institutional development and strengthening of
LHDA: engineering, finance, accounting,
environment, human resource development;
International panels of experts: dam safety,
environment through provision of technical
assistance; training for LHDA staff in engineering,
finance, accounting, environment and general
Imanagement.                                 Completed



28
Construction Skills Training     Provision of training for Basotho basic construction About 400 persons trained
skills.
ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION, COMPENSATION
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                        _
Environmental Protection         To protect and enhance vegetative cover in the
watershed above project dams; to mitigate the  Program partially
negative impacts on flora, avi and fauna; to  implemented; work is still
preserve sites of historic or cultural significance; to on-going; design parameters
protect and enhance water quality and wetland  being changed to reflect
ecology, and to protect public health. Sub-projects more comprehensively all
supported concentrate on: soil conservation and    project impacts and new
sedimentation; watershed management; biological priorities.
monitoring; public health; cultural heritage;
environmental monitoring.
Resettlement and Compensation    To resettle and compensate persons affected by the Resettlement completed
Program                          project for lost income and assets; to replace lost   with the exception of seven
access to infrastructure in the project area; and to  households; compensation
compensate for lost community assets.       for lost income will be
provided over 50 years;
replacement of lost
community assets
completed except for
grazing areas where work is
still on-going.
Rural Development                To restore productive capacity to persons affected  Production programs are
by the project; to enable them to exploit new  still being implemented; so
economic opportunities created by the project.    are the education and rural
Project-supported programs concentrate on   development programs
production (livestock and range management;    (1,146 persons have been
mountain horticulture and field crops; village  trained; 95km of feeder
forestry; fisheries, land use planning), education   roads constructed or
(incl. rural training), infrastructure (rural roads;   rehabilitated, water supply
village water supply and sanitation; rural  and sanitation delivered to
electrification; construction communities; visitor   40% and 15%, respectively,
centers and tourism).                       of intended village;
electrification has been
cancelled; tourism has yet
to take-off; construction
communities infrastructure
_________________________________________ completed.
Studies                          An organization and manpower study; a study on   All studies completed;
management accounting and information systems; provided the basis for (a)
an assessment of the operational and financial  significant changes in
aspects of the hydropower component; and    LHDA organization, and in
optimization and environment studies related to the accounting and information
project's follow-up Phase 1B.               systems, and (b) electricity
sales arrangements by
LHDA; studies on Phase I B
helped in the design of that
Phase.
GOL Representation on the JPTC   To assist, guide and advise the JPTC.
Completed
Development Fund                 Setting up and operation of a Development Fund to Fund has been set up and
finance development projects using project related  240 projects were financed.
income accruing to GOL.



29
Table 6. Key Indicators for Developmental Impact
--Corkipobent    -      v. -mpact -8icaDor       ____;___        _   Value
._E_E_-_._ _._L_                                       SAR  Target               Actual
Water transfer and Hydro - Amount of water delivered
Power generation        (cumulative by 3/99; in m3 million)   1,390                   580
- Power generated (Feb. 1999; MW)        64                     47
- Royalties and SACU revenues
earned (cumm. by 3/99; in M mill.)     905                    1,130
contribution to GNP                   5%                    4.5%
contribution to Gov. revenues         20%                    18%
- Re-estimated rate of return           16%                     17%
- Person years of employment
generated                             20,000                 22,000
Institutional         - Reduction in expatriate staffing of    N/A         Reduction from 16% in 90/91
Strengthening          LHDA                                                          to 4%
- LHDA (engineering, financial          N/A           More than 500 staff trained;
management, environment,                             departments generally well
dam safety, etc.)                                  functioning; O&M incl. dam
safety effective for future
operation
Environmental Protection - Effectiveness and sustainability    N/A           Several programs such as
of various project activities                      water quality monitoring, and
establishing nature reserves is
progressing well and
sustainable; others are yet to
take off
Resettlement and      - Number of households                   173                    294
Compensation            successfully resettled
- Effectiveness of compensation in  All project-affected   Target was met, though with
maintaining/improving welfare    persons to at least    some difficulties in early
of affected persons            maintain their standard   implementation
of living
Rural Development     - Effect of various project activities  Standard of    Better access to lowlands,
(production; education; income    living/welfare of    shorter traveling times,
generation; infrastructure) on   affected population  reduction in consumer prices,
standard of living and welfare of  expected to improve;   improved health services,
affected population             target not quantified   increased water supply and
sanitation achieved in much o
the project area; but income
generation programs so far
had limited impact
Development Fund (DF) - Effectiveness of DF management         N/A           Fund management has not
been fully effective, a new
fund is being established
- Impact of investments supported       N/A            DF has financed projects
worth Maloti 215 million;
impact has not been measured



30
Table 7. Studies Included in Project
1. Organizational   To review its existing organizational    Completed  The study together with
Review and Training   structure with a view to determining its     the subsequent
Assessment          adequacy for starting with                     Transformation Project
implementation of the operational              provided the basis for a
phase and at the same time with the            major restructuring of
design phase of Phase IB; to assess            LHDA in 1998;
LHDA's efforts in training Basotho             expatriates have been
staff to take over the positions presently     reduced from 16% to 4%
filled by expatriates.                         of LHDA's staff.
2. Review of        To review of the appropriateness of its  Completed  The study helped in
Management          management accounting system,                  strengthening LHDA's
Accounting and      including its information system; to           accounting and financial
Information System    review the existing management               management systems; it
accounting system and LHDA's                   assisted particularly in
information system in terms of                improving activity-based
correctness of posting, efficiency,            accounting, and in
timeliness and abstraction and                 developing more useful
compilation of information.                    internal reports
3. Assessment of    To establish arrangements for (a)   Completed  The study and its 1997 up-
Operational and     recovering the capital costs of Muela           date recommended the
Financial Aspects of  through appropriate tariffs; (b)             operating arrangements
the Hydropower      providing LEC with adequate incentive           adopted between LHDA
Component           to use Muela output and recover                and LEC, and the powers
revenues from power consumers; and             sales agreement signed in
(c) allocating the financial risks of          1994.
events affecting Muela output.
4. Phase 1B         To carry out a detailed EIA of Phase    Completed  The EIA led to the
Environmental Impact  I B and to formulate an Environmental        preparation of an
Assessment (EIA)    Impact Statement (EIS) by identifying           appropriate Environmental
and quantifying the probable impacts,          Action Plan prescribing
and recommending ways to mitigate             the actions required to
these impacts.                                 mitigate adverse Phase lB
environmental impacts and
to provide environmental
enhancement.
5. Phase IB         To review all available documentation   Completed  Study provided valuable
Optimization        pertaining to Phase IB, the projected           input into final decisions
Matsuko weir and the Mohale                    on alternatives, location
reservoir, and physically reconnoiter          selection, and the timing
the area to confirm, or recommend              of implementation actions.
additional investigations for potential
alternatives of, the most likely location,
timing, and configuration to follow
Phase IA and fulfill the objectives
outlined in the Water Treaty between
Lesotho and RSA.



31
Table 8A: Project Costs
-  Componlent--..--       -Appr|A ArtualVtaest   Apprisal               ctualIL
Estimate    ~Estimate it    Estimate      Estmatek 2/
A. Civil Works and Equipment
Water Transfer                              1,682.0       3,452.1        649.0           956.5
Hydropower                                   514.0         781.8          135.0          161.7
Other Infrastructure                         350.0         781.6          198.0          185.1
Sub-total         2,546.0       5,015.5         982.0         1,303.3
B. Engineering & Constr. Supervision
Water Transfer                               216.0         525.4           83.0          148.2
Hydropower                                    75.0         105.0           29.0           26.5
Other Infrastructure                          75.0          94.3           29.0           20.0
Sub-total          366.0          724.7         141.0          194.6
C. LHDA Costs
Technical Support, Training & Studies        160.0         347.7           62.0           88.8
Operation & Administration                   202.0         433.7           78.0          110.7
Sub-total          362.0         781.4          140.0          199.5
D. Environmental Protection,                    172.0         354.6          67.0            76.3
Compensation, Rural Dev.
E. GOL Representation to JPTC & other            75.0          68.4          28.0            17.5
GOL Cost
BASE COSTS            3,521.0        6,944.6       1,358.0        1,791.1
F. Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                       385.0                        149.0
Price Contingencies                         2,142.0                       296.0
Subtotal         2,527.0                       445.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               6,048.0       6,944.6        1,803.0        1,791.1
Interest During Construction                  2,393.0       3,802.9         611.0           849.7
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                8,441.0       10,747.5       2,414.0        2,640.8
1/ From unaudited March 31, 1999 LHDA accounts and estimated cost to completion
2/ Actual costs in Maloti have been translated into US$ using average exchange rates in effect during the various
project years



32
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
I. Donor Agencies
IBRD                                  110.0                  68.9
UNDP                                    0.3                   1.9
AfDB                                  50.0                    0.0
EU                                     57.0                  54.9
EIB                                   20.0                   20.0
CDC                                   36.1                    5.3
Bilaterals                            117.8                  52.5
Subtotal              391.2                  203.5
II. Export Credit                        411.0                  381.3
III. Europeap Comm. Banks                 67.0                   78.1
IV. GOL Contribution                      57.2                   50.1
V. CMA Funding                         1,488.4                1,927.8
TOTAL FINANCING                   2,414.8               2,640.8
Table 9. Economic and Financial Evaluation
_  ;        =11oft~i~ RofRe~uri~  Estirn~i~s 4JUgtALpraisa1  sFaGe~i 'M
Water Transfer Component                 16%                     17%
Hydropower Component                    6%                      3%
Total Project                      15%                     16%



33
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Agreemen     Section    Covenant  ft---t   -      escription o Cv-enaAt   -      Comments
t                    Class(s)  Status  ___ :::L__._-__.
Loan       3.02 (C) &      05        C     Employ an engineering panel of     In compliance
4.01 (B)                        experts
4.03 (B)        05       C      (1) Take out insurance acceptable to   In compliance
IBRD; (2) Employ insurance experts
acceptable to IBRD and submit their
recommendations to IBRD.
5.01            01       C     Maintain adequate accounts and have   In compliance
them audited by auditors acceptable to
IBRD
5.02            02       C     Pay guarantee fee to GOL.          In compliance
Schedule 4,     05       C     (1) Conduct Muela financial and    Completed
para. I                         operational study and pass to JBRD
for review; (2) Implement study
recommendations; (3) Agree fnancial
performance targets.
Schedule 4,     05       CD    (1) Conduct organization and       Completed after
para. 2                         manpower study and furnish        delay
recommendations of IBRD; (2)
Implement recommendations of study,
taking the Bank's comments into
account.
Schedule 4,     01       CD    (1) Conduct management accounting   Completed after
para. 3                         and furnish recommendations of    delay
IBRD; (2) Implement
recommendations of study, taking the
Bank's comments into account.
Schedule 4,     03       C     Proceeds of loan to be utilized only    In compliance
para. 4                         for contracts approved by JPTC.
Schedule 4,     10       C      Introduce computer based accounting   Completed
para. 5                         and treasury system.
Supplement      04       C     (1) GOL to finance costs of its    In compliance
al Letter 1,                   representation on JPTC; (2) GOL
GOL Budget                      share of rehab. & maintenance of
roads and border crossing; (3) GOL
share of environmental, compensation
& rural development costs; (4) GOL
share of LHDA's admin. costs.
Supplement      05       C     (1) Agree royalty payments; (2) Apply  In compliance,
al Letter 2,                    sound management/account          but new Fund is
Developmen                      procedures; (3) Audit of fund; (4)  being set up
t Fund                          Furnish audited report to IBRD; (4)    under Phase lB
Publish audited accounts.
Present Status:
C = Covenant complied with          CD = Complied with after delay
CP = Complied with partially        NC = Not complied with
Covenant Class:
1. Accounts/audit      2. Financial performance       3. Project funds
4. Counterpart funding  5. Management aspects         6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement 8. Indigenous people      9. Monitoring and reporting
10. Implementation      11. Budgetary allocation      12. Regulatory/institutional action



34
Table 11. Compliance with Operation Manual Statements
7,                 at on                      ,,kof0o,"p:0 e
1. OMS 2.36 -              The project and the Bank were in compliance with OMS 2.36, the directive
Environmental Aspects of    relevant for the operation at the time of appraisal (April 1990).
Bank Work
Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment" was issued
before appraisal, in October 1989, but it did not apply to the project. (OD 4.00,
Annex A was operational only for projects that had not reached the Initial
Executive Project Summary stage by October 15, 1989.) The project would not
have met the standards of the new OD. In particular, 29 environmental and social
studies and surveys were carried out during project preparation; however they did
not add up to a full Environmental Impact Assessment as required by OD 4.00,
Annex A.
2. OD 4.00, Annex B -      The project and the Bank were overall in compliance with OD 4.00, Annex B. In
Environmental Policy for   particular, the requirement that the appraisal mission "include environmental
Dam and Reservoir Projects   specialists to assess the environmental analysis" and the proposed mitigation
measures, was met, together with obligations on establishing an independent panel
of environmental experts, and an environmental unit in the project implementing
agency. Also met were requirements on including environmental clauses in
bidding documents. However the responsibility to have adequate and strong
expertise in LHDA's environmental unit was not adhered to at all times.
3. OMS 3.80 - Safety of    The project and the Bank were in compliance with OMS 3.80, especially the
Dams                       requirements on an independent panel of experts, on establishment of a safety
unit in the implementation agency, and on operation and maintenance
arrangements. The project also meets the condition of the revised 1996 OD 4.37
"Safety of Dams" regarding the preparation of an emergency preparedness plan.
4. OMS 2.33 - Social Issues   The project and the Bank were generally in compliance with OMS 2.33.
Associated with Involuntary   However, the requirement of a well prepared resettlement plan was not entirely
Resettlement in Bank-      met as the number of households to be resettled was initially estimated to be lower
Financed Projects         than was found to be necessary. Also, the quasi-welfare program put into place
with annual compensation over 50-years for lost land, is not in line with the
OMS's stipulation that "care must be taken that to avoid implanting in the minds
of the settlers the idea that they have become permanent wards of the State."
The project and the Bank complied with this directive, especially the notification
5. OD 7.50 - Projects on  requirements to riparian countries and obtaining their "no objection" to the
International Waterways    project.
Table 12. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Through pre-appraisal                     155.2                         318.1
Appraisal - effectiveness                 122.2                         275.6
Supervision                               192.4                         501.0
Completion                                11.0                           43.0
TOTAL                                     480.8                         1137.7



35
Table 13. Bank Resources - Mission
--t:ag.si. o -m-ww     No. of    'eekso .       ;                      Tyes      bes
-:proectcy]   ::a    pesn   in0v X-ied- resented-  -ra- tin -- 
__     __   _   _ _ _                                     IS  2
Through      May 90      6        3      FA, So, En,  N/A   N/A              N/A
Appraisal                                 Ec, La, 0                                    _ _
Appraisal     N/A       N/A      N/A        N/A       N/A   N/A              N/A
through Board
approval
Supervision 1  Dec., 91    2         2       FA, Ec      I      1              EN
Supervision 2   Sep. 92    3         1     Ec, FA, En    1      I              EN
Supervision 3   Mar. 93    3         1     Ec, FA, So    2      1            PMP, PP
Supervision 4   Oct. 93    4         1    En, So, FA,   2       2          EN, II, PMP
0
Supervision 5   Feb. 94    6         3     En, 0, So,    2      2        CC, EN, II, PMP
FA, WR,
Env.
Supervision 6   Oct. 94    5         3     Ec, 0, En,    2      2           EN, II, PP
RD, So
Supervision 7   Mar. 95    6         2     En, Ec, So,   S      S             EN, II
0
Supervision 8   Oct. 95    9         2     Ec, DS, En,   S      S            EN, PMP
So
Supervision 9   Mar. 96    5         2     Ec, En, So    S      S             EN, II
Supervision 10  Nov. 96     12       3      Ec, En, So,    S     S           EN, LP, II,
(and pre-appr.                              Env, DS,
of Phase IB)                                  WR
Supervision 11  Jun. 97     7        3      Ec. En, So,    S     S           II, LP, EN
(and appraisal                               Env, La
of Phase IB)
Supervision 12  Dec. 97     5        2      Ec, So, La,    S     S              EN
En
Supervision 13  May 98      3        2      Ec, DS, IS,    S     S             EN, II
Ec    ____
Supervision 14  Nov. 98     4        2      Ec, IS, So,    S     S            ENV, II
Env
Completion    Apr. 99      9        2     Ec, FA, So,  N/A   N/A              N/A
(and superv. of                             En, IS, La
Phase IB)   I    _I_II_
Staff Skills:                        Performance Ratings:           Type of Problems:
Env = Environmental Specialist       I - Minor or No Problems       LP: Labor Problems
Ec = Economist                       2 - Moderate Problems           CC: Compliance with Legal
0 = Oper. Officer/Proc. Specialist   3 - Major Problem                     Covenants
DA = Dam Specialist                  S - Satisfactory                EN: Environment (incl.
RD = Rural Dev. Specialist           HS - Highly satisfactory             social issues)
IS = Institutional Specialist        U - Unsatisfactory             PMP: Project Management
WR = Water Resources Specialist                                            Performance
En = Engineer                                                       PP: Procurement Progress
So = Sociologist                                                    Il: Institutional Issues
La = Lawyer






Annex A
Page 1 of 6
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT
PHASE 1A (LOAN 3393-LSO)
World Bank Completion Mission
May 1999
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A World Bank Mission visited Lesotho (April 28- May 12, 1999) and South Africa (May
13-14, 1999) to carry out the completion of Phase IA of the Lesotho Highland Water Project.
The mission was composed of Messrs./Mme. Arnaud Guinard (Team Leader), William Moler
(Engineering), Cyprian Fisiy and Radhika Srinivasan (resettlement and rural development), John
Ambrose (Environment), Stefan Klasen (economic and financial aspects), Kamn Chetty
(Evaluation and Monitoring), Mpoy Kamulayi (Lawyer) and Walter Schwermer (ICR
preparation).
The mission met with the Minister and the Principal Secretary of Natural Resources, the
Principal Secretary of Development Planning, the Attorney General of the GoL, the Director
General of DWAF, JTPC, TCTA, DBSA, LHDA senior management and staff as well as
representatives of local NGOs in Lesotho and GEM in South Africa. The mission also briefed
the European Delegation in Maseru. The mission visited the various project sites May 1-3, 1999.
It wishes to express its grateful thanks for the excellent cooperation and assistance it received
during its visit.
This Aide-Memoire summarizes the main findings and recommendations of the mission
and is subject to confirmation by Bank Management upon the mission's return to Washington.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report.
The World Bank Loan (Ln 3393-LSO) for Phase IA was officially closed on March 31,
1999. As agreed during the November 1998 mission, LHDA initiated the preparation of its own
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and shared a draft of this report with the mission
during its visit. This draft includes a compilation of the preliminary contributions and
assessments from the various branches and sections of LHDA. The mission wishes to commend
LHDA for the intensive efforts made to produce a comprehensive document, especially on social
and environmental aspects. The mission also believes that after it has been finalized, this
document will provide a good basis for preparing an Operating Plan for Phase IA to help ensure
sustainability of project investment and apply key lessons learned to improve the implementation
of Phase lB.



Annex A
Page 2 of 6
It was agreed that after further refinement, internal review and consultation with JPTC,
LHDA would finalize its ICR and submit it for information to the Bank not later than June 15,
1999. It was also agreed that LHDA would provide an Executive Summary of its ICR (not
exceeding ten pages) that will be incorporated in the Bank's final ICR. This summary will
include a presentation of achievements, findings, performance assessment and lessons learned.
On the basis of its own assessment of the various components of the project and review
of the draft LHDA's ICR, the mission will start preparing the Bank's ICR upon its return to
Washington. Before finalizing its report, the Bank will share it with GOL, DWAF, LHDA,
JPTC, TCTA as well as co-financiers for their comments. Official comments will be
incorporated in the Bank's final ICR.
Present Status and Key Tasks to be Completed under Phase IA.
Although the World Bank Loan for Phase IA has now been closed, a number of activities
and programs remain to be completed or undertaken together with a comprehensive exit strategy.
Engineering and Construction
Phase 1A engineering and construction of the LHWP is basically complete. The water
transfer component of the project was officially inaugurated on January 22, 1998. The third and
final unit of the 72 MW Muela Hydropower Complex was brought on line on December 18,
1998 and was officially inaugurated on January 22, 1999.
Katse Reservoir is currently at approximately El 2050, about three meters below its full
supply level (FSL). About 18.7m /s of water is being transferred to South Africa via the Transfer
Tunnel, Muela Hydropower Complex, Muela Reservoir and Delivery Tunnel. The Muela
powerhouse is presently generating 47 MW of power. Generation is below capacity due to low
water transfer to South Africa at the present time.
All engineering and construction contracts are essentially complete. The only remaining
activities are related to a small number of "defects liability" matters of the hydropower
components and the settlement of construction claims.
The total value of Phase 1 A engineering and construction contracts at the end of January
1999 was M4, 897, 081, 490, which is M764,777,608 or 18.5% more than the total original
contract amounts. M4,694,832,018, or 98% of the forecast cost at completion, has been
expended. The main reasons for cost overrun were: (a) concrete lining of the Transfer Tunnel;
(b) deepening of the foundation for the Katse Dam and associated design changes during
construction; (c) delay in obtaining funding of the underground powerhouse at Muela; (d)
acceleration of the construction of the Muela Bypass in order to meet water transfer obligations;
and (e) staffing adjustments by all the construction supervision consultants to accompany
changes in the construction schedule.



Annex A
Page 3 of 6
There are 81 unresolved claims submitted by the contractors totaling M217, 862,397.
Some 56 claims are still being negotiated, 13 are disputed and notification has been given of
intent to start the arbitration process.
Resettlement, Compensation and Rural Development.
Resettlement and the delivery of physical infrastructure is almost completed except for
the seven households under the transmission lines in the Muela FOB jurisdiction (contract 136).
A final decision on the replacement of the housing units needs to be taken as soon as possible
and the decision implemented by June 30, 1999.
The major remaining issue on compensation is the non-delivery of group compensation
for loss of communal assets for the last year. The insistence that communities should prepare
viable business plans has proven to be a major bottleneck. The mission recommends that FOB
managers, working with technical specialists drawn from both the HQ and the field, create task
teams to identify and facilitate investments within the communities. The approach should aim at
mainstreaming participatory development planning with the communities.
On the Rural Development Program (RDP), the emphasis has been on delivering outputs,
but limited impact has been achieved on the ground. The mission recommends that a
comprehensive evaluation of the RDP be carried out
a) to determine the comparative advantage of the highlands;
b) to identify local needs and stimulate the internal market;
c) to facilitate an enabling environment for the involvement of the private sector;
d) to assess possibilities of reducing market obstructions while strengthening market channels
and access to credit;
e) to elicit the informed participation of affected groups in the RDP; and
f) to enhance institutional arrangements for implementation and support services.
Based on the findings of this evaluation, the RDP should be revamped.
Very few new grievances have been reported since the last mission. However, the
analysis of resolved and pending grievances has not been carried out. ESSG will finalise this
analysis and provide a timeframe for the resolution of all grievances.
Environment
A natural environment and heritage plan (NEHP) was prepared in 1990 and included a
number of recommended project activities for implementation. The plan was prepared on the
basis of the 1986 feasibility study of the entire Lesotho Highlands Water Project. The feasibility
study concentrated on the impacts of Phase 1 A and Phase 1 B as well as on the possible impacts
of Phases II and III. There was no dedicated comprehensive EIA carried out for Phase IA such
as the one carried out for Phase lB in 1996/97.



Annex A
Page 4 of 6
In the absence of a dedicated EIA for Phase IA, the NEHP was not able to rigorously
reflect all of the impacts that occurred. A great deal had been learned over a period of eight
years and this led to the preparation of a revised NEHP in 1998. The revised plan essentially
maintained the same objectives, but ensured that it truly reflected all of the impacts of Phase 1A.
The NEHP has incorporated new priorities and needs that have arisen since inception of the
initial NEHP in 1990; it has estimated more realistic schedules for programs and has developed
hand-over procedures where appropriate. As a result of uncertainty with the original plan, the
majority of recommended projects in the plan were delayed. The revised NEHP includes 17
projects under the NEH section of ESSG. Eight of these are currently being implemented and
nine are in the planning stage.
Critical to the future development of the Katse area is the Katse reservoir zoning project
which has recently gone to tender. This project, when complete, will provide the basis for future
development of the area. The mission recommends that zoning be extended to cover the Mohale
area as well to ensure that development scenarios for Katse are prepared within a framework of
the entire Phase 1 LHWP area.
The nature reserves project is progressing well. Along with the fisheries (ongoing) and
tourism (planned) programs, it will provide the catalyst for sustainable tourism development that
could make a significant contribution to improved economic and social conditions in the region.
Of major concern will be the institutional arrangements for managing the reserves (four in total)
once development has been completed, and for fisheries management on Katse dam. Planning is
currently being conducted to determine hand over procedures to GOL agencies. It will be
important that these agencies have the capacity, including the appropriate resources and trained
personnel, to ensure sustainability of these two projects.
One of the eight projects of Phase 1A in the planning stage is a post construction site
audit. An independent audit of post construction environmental conditions will be conducted.
The audit is critical to ensuring that all construction sites have been rehabilitated to contract
specifications and that construction has not resulted in delayed impacts or impacts that may
occur in the future. The Muela platform site which is the proposed site of the Muela Museum
and environment centre, was examined for contamination, and apart for some local oil
contamination which was not considered serious, the site is generally
Economic Impact and Financial Aspects
The mission carried out a preliminary economic re-evaluation of the project. The results can
be summarised as follows:
* When combining the water transfer with the hydropower component the rate of return is
estimated at 16.5%, even thought the hydropower component just carries a rate of return of
3.1%.
•  LHWP remains a the least cost option and continues to compare favorably with its
alternatives.



Annex A
Page 5 of 6
*  Royalties (M370 million) and SACU revenues (M760 million) have boosted the revenues of
GOL.
* In 1998, Phase IA accounted for about 13.6% of Lesotho's GDP, and some 35% of value-
added in the building and construction sector. In addition, it provided some 27.8% of
government revenues.
*  Phase IA generated 22600 person years of labor for Basotho workers, some 10% more than
expected, yielding some M400 million in wages paid.
* M68 million in sub-contracts went to Basotho businesses as did some Ml 6 million in
consultancy contracts.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Impact monitoring and evaluation of the affected people will continue for at least the next
fifteen years to measure compliance with the Treaty obligations. LHDA will examine the
various M&E programmes to decide on their life span and plan and budget for their effective
implementation.
At the technical level the socio-economic impact evaluation programme comprises two
sub-programmes: formal socio-economic surveys, and participatory monitoring and evaluation of
affected communities. The prograrnme is envisaged to continue for a maximum of 15 years;
however the current plans end in 2003 and the consultant has been secured for the first
component of the programme. The programme for the next five years includes: a 100%
household survey for the 1998/1999 year and a 33.3% representative sample survey each year
until year 2002/2003. A PME of all affected communities will be conducted annually until year
2002/2003. The LHDA M&E unit will need to develop clear plans and institutional
arrangements to implement the monitoring and evaluation programme for the remaining years.
The key programmes that would need to be monitored include:
* the key environmental programmes such as water quality, downstream river regime, soil
conservation and biological monitoring;
* critical engineering elements; and
*  social programmes such as the compensation, effectiveness of RDP and income restoration
programmes.
* Economic impact (macro and micro) and labor relations.
Maintenance and Operation
LHDA's Maintenance and Operations Branch has arrangements in place for the
operation and maintenance of key facilities such as the Katse Dam and the Muela Hydropower
Complex. Memoranda of Understanding have also been completed with several GOL ministries
concerning project investments to be transferred to them. LHDA has ensured that project
investments are included in the public investment program and public agencies are closely
involved. However, LHDA has not yet prepared a comprehensive Operating Plan for the various
components of the project detailing the organizational, management and funding arrangements



Annex A
Page 6 of 6
for future operations of the different project investments and programs. To help ensure
sustainability of these investments and programs, the mission requests that such a plan be
prepared by July 31, 1999 and include handing-over arrangements of project assets and programs
to concerned GOL ministries and project area commnunities, where applicable.



Annex B
Page I of 16
LESOTHO HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
(LOAN 3393- LSO)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
1. This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Phase 1A of The Lesotho
Highlands Water Project for which a loan 3393- LSO in the amount of US$110 million
was approved on 23rd July 1991 and became effective on 15th May 1992. A total of
US$20 million was cancelled on June 30th, 1996 and US$16 million cancelled on
October 1 5th, 1998 due to, inter alia, the ineligibility (on procurement grounds) of certain
contracts originally considered for retroactive financing and the lower than anticipated
levels of technical assistance to the Lesotho Highlands Development Authority.
2. The Credit was closed on 315t March 1999 after a one-year extension from the
original closing date of March 3 Ist 1998. While work is continuing on Phase IB, it is an
opportune moment to take stock of how implementation of Phase IA went and to draw
lessons learned therein which can be applied to subsequent phases.
B. Background
3. An assessment made by Republic of South Africa of the water demand and supply
for the Witwatersrand industrial heartland revealed that new and economical sources of
water beyond its borders would need to be investigated in order to meet the projected
increased demand by both the industrial sector and increasing household needs. The
projected increase in annual demand for water in the industrial heartland was expected to
increase from 979 million m3 in 1980 when the population was 5,8 million to 3,803
million m3 per year in year 2010 when the population is expected to have increased to
about 12 million. The transfer of water from Lesotho under Phase IA of the Lesotho
Highlands Water Project (LHWP) was expected to secure additional supplies of water to
the Vaal Dam in South Africa until year 2004; Thereafter additional supplies from
Mohale Dam under phase lB would be sufficient to meet demand until about year 2010.
4. The Government of Lesotho had for some years been seeking means of earning
external revenue by harnessing and exporting its abundant water resources and also save
foreign exchange by developing hydo-power locally and thus reduce Lesotho's
dependence on imported energy.
5. In view of this double coincidence of needs, the two countries were prompted to
resuscitate the studies that had been initiated in the 50's but subsequently abandoned,
relating to the then called Oxbow Water Scheme.
6. Following extensive studies of alternative transfer schemes, the options were
eventually narrowed down to two hypothetical schemes, namely the Lesotho Highlands
Water Project (LHWP) and the Orange Vaal Transfer Scheme (OVTS). Both projects
would involve the harnessing of the Senqu/Orange river albeit at different locations.



Annex B
Page 2 of 16
Redirecting the southward flow of the Senqu River in the northward direction within the
Lesotho highlands would permit the water to flow into the Vaal river catchment area by
gravity. Under the OVTS scheme, the water would be harnessed at a point outside
Lesotho's borders and would require substantial electrical power for pumping the water to
reach the Vaal river catchment area.
7. Based on the computation of the operating costs of each scheme, the conclusion was
that the OVTS scheme would be twice as expensive as the LHWP. For the two countries
to opt for the LHWP, it was decided to share the resultant cost savings in the ratio of
56% to Lesotho and 44% to South Africa.
8. The Treaty on the Lesotho Highlands Water Project between the Government of
Lesotho and the Government of the Republic of South Africa whose purpose is to
provide for the establishment, implementation, operation and maintenance of the project,
was signed in Maseru, Lesotho on 24th October 1986.
C. Institutional Arrangements
9. The implementation of the Project is managed on behalf of the Lesotho Government
through its Ministry of Natural Resources by the Lesotho Highlands Development
Authority (LHDA) while those sections which lie in South Africa are managed on behalf
of the South African Government through its Department of Water Affairs and Forestry
by the Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA). The TCTA is also responsible, on
behalf of the Government of South Africa, for the servicing of all loans raised for those
elements of the Project related to the transfer of water to South Africa.
10. The Joint Permanent Technical Commission (JPTC) comprising of three delegates
and three alternates from each country has been established to monitor the activities of
both the LHDA and the TCTA and to safeguard the provisions of the Treaty.
D. Statement of Project Objectives and Components
11. Project Objectives: The main objectives of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project
(LHWP) are to transform Lesotho's principal natural resource of abundance - water -
into export revenues from South Africa and to produce hydropower to reduce Lesotho's
dependence on imported energy. Specifically, the Project aims at carrying out the
necessary physical investments, providing institutional support, safeguarding
environmental and compensation aspects of Phase IA of the Lesotho Highlands Water
Project (LHWP), preparing for construction of further phases and setting up a
development fund to channel revenues from the Project to development oriented
programmes. In addition each party would have the opportunity to undertake ancillary
developments in its territory, including;
* The provision of water for irrigation, potable water supply and other uses
* The development of tourism, fisheries and other projects for economic and social
development and.
•  The development of other projects to generate hydro-electric power.



Annex B
Page 3 of 16
12   Project Components: The Project was originally designed to include five phases
implemented over a period of 30 years and expected to transfer about 70 m3/s of water to
the Witwatersrand region in South Africa. Phase IA of the project is designed to deliver
18 m3/s and at appraisal had the following main components; Engineering studies and
supervision services, advance infrastructure, Katse and vMuela dams, transfer and
delivery tunnels, hydropower plant and appurtenances, institutional support for the
LHDA, environmental protection, compensation and rural development, studies,
development fund, roads and border crossings. The final design of Phase IA reflects
some alterations from the original design; For example, Sentelina head pond was later
changed to the present 'Muela dam.
(a) Engineering studies and supervision services:   Construction supervision and
detailed design of the civil works estimated at a total of 11,275 man months (mlm)
covering the dam at Katse and the transfer tunnel (7,565 m/m), delivery tunnel
(1,200 m/m), infrastructure (1, 460 m/m), and hydropower facilities (1,050 m/m).
(b) Advance infrastructure : Construction of 120 km of paved roads and 80 kmn of
gravel roads providing access to project sites; One bridge between Lesotho and the
RSA and one bridge across the main reservoir as well as three smaller bridges on the
access roads; other advance infrastructure such as work camps, staff housing, power
supply and telecommunications systems; improvement to border crossing facilities
and rehabilitation of existing roads in Lesotho to cater for wear and tear of those
roads which would be carrying project related traffic.
(c) Main civil works [ at appraisal]
(i.)   Katse dam and reservoir:  Construction of a 182 m high concrete arch
type dam at Katse and appurtenant works with an active reservoir storage
capacity of 1,519 million M3; intake structure to a trangfer tunnel and water
discharge structures for subsequent phases of the LHWP;
(ii)   Transfer Tunnel:    Construction of a 48 km  tunnel (subsequently
reduced to 45 km length) with a 4.85m diameter and a 90 m high
multilevel intake tower. The tunnel diameter reduces to 4.35m where
concrete lining is required, with an average flow capacity of 30 m3/sec to
accommodate water to be transferred in this Phase as well as in Phase I B;
(iii)   Delivery Tunnels:  Construction of a 16 km portion of the delivery tunnel
in Lesotho with a 5.Om diameter and an average flow capacity of 30 m3/s to
accommodate water deliveries in Phase IA and lB of the LHWP. In
addition, and though not financed under the project but directly linked with
the operation, were an additional 22 kilometers of delivery tunnel within
South Africa to transfer water to the Ash river in South Africa.
(iv)   Hydropower plant and appurtenances:  Construction of an underground
power station with 72 MW installed capacity of 3 units, 125 km of 132 KV
double circuit transmission line; a substation (8 bays), and a 55m high
concrete arch dam at 'Muela with an active storage capacity of 0.5 million



Annex B
Page 4 of 16
M3. The civil works would be constructed in a manner to provide the
possibility of increasing the generating capacity with the implementation of
Phase II of the LHWP.
(d) Institutional support for The LHDA
The support included;
*  Institutional development and strengthening of LHDA in the fields of engineering,
finance, accounting, environment and human resource development; access to
international panels of experts (POE) in the fields of engineering (including dam safety)
and environment through provision of technical assistance (3,200 m/m); training for
LHDA staff in engineering, finance, accounting, environment and general management.
* Construction skills training through provision of training for Basotho on basic
construction skills.
(e) Environmental protection, compensation and rural development
(i)    Environmental Protection: Implementation of actions to protect and
enhance vegetative cover in the watershed above the dam, to mitigate the
negative impacts on flora and fauna; to preserve sites of historic or cultural
significance, to protect and enhance water quality and wetland ecology, and
to monitor and reinforce the Govermment Ministry of Health in establishing
regulations and policies in the Project area.
(ii)   Compensation program: Implementation of a program  of actions to
compensate persons affected by the project for lost income and assets, and to
replace lost access to infrastructure in the Project area.
(iii)   Rural Development: Implementation of a program to restore productive
capacity to persons affected by the Project and to enable them to exploit new
economic opportunities created by the Project, including actions to promote
environmental awareness.
(f) Studies: Carrying out of an organization and manpower study, a management
accounting study related to the operational and financial issues of the hydropower
component, and optimization and environment studies related to Phase lB.
(g) Development Fund:  Setting up and operation of a development fund for the
receipt of Project related income accruing to GOL to promote economic development in
Lesotho.
(h) Roads and Border Crossings: Constructing, equipping, operating and maintaining
Project related border crossings and rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads in
Lesotho resulting from Project-induced increases in traffic.



Annex B
Page 5 ofl6
E. Evaluation of Project Objectives and Components.
(13)  Overall assessment of Project objectives : The main objectives of the Project
have been achieved. The quality of the engineering work was of high standard as
attested by the Panel of Experts. Prestigious awards by regional civil engineering
associations were received in respect of some structures.
(14)   The Katse Dam, in particular, represents one of the most spectacular feats of
engineering. The Dam is one of less than thirty double curvature concrete arch dams in
the world. It is the highest dam in Africa and is one of the ten largest concrete arch dams
in the world in terms of its volume.
(15) A 185 m high dam (originally planned to be 182 m high) has been built in a very
sparsely populated area. The displacement of people was comparatively small, a total of
seventy-one households only had to be removed from the Katse shoreline.
(16) The successful commissioning of Phase 1A, which is now delivering the planned
18 m3/s of water to the Vaal river system and generating power for Lesotho marks a
great achievement. The highlands communities now benefit from good access roads,
construction power and communication networks. Finally, technology transfer has been
imparted to local consulting firms and LHDA staff and has enabled the LHDA to
successfully implement Phase IA of the Project.
(17) Water Delivery: The Project's Phase 1A objectives have been achieved. The
objective of harnessing the surplus water of the Senqu/Orange River and its tributaries
and delivering required quantities of water to the Republic of South Africa has been
successfully attained and is sustainable. The first delivery of water commenced on 8t
January 1998.
(18) Generation of hydroelectric power: The 72 MW 'Muela hydropower station
became commercially operational in December 1998.
(19)  The LHDA has in place a highly trained and motivated team dedicated to the
operations and maintenance of both the water delivery and hydropower generation and
facilities. This team enjoys backup support from LHDA headquarters. The LHDA has
standardised on the SAP R/3 (Systems Application Products), an enterprise resource
planning (ERP) system for the integrated management of the business processes
required in the maintenance and operations of the facilities.
(20) Ex Post Economics and Impact of Phase IA on Lesotho's Economy: Ex post
rate of return for both water transfer and hydropower components is calculated at 16.5%.
As of May 1999, Lesotho has received M370 million in royalties (about US$60
million), M760 million in SACU revenues (US$122 million); created employment
opportunities of 22,600 person years for Basotho people at a total value of M400 million
in wages. Additional benefits include business opportunities for Basotho companies
valued at M68 million. The associated increase in economic activity boosted tax
revenues of the Lesotho Government and generated 18% of the Government's total



Annex B
Page 6 of 16
revenues. At the peak of construction, the Project accounted for about 14% of Lesotho's
GDP, and approximately 40% of value-added in the building and construction sector.
F. Evaluation of Project components
21.   Engineering studies and supervision services: These were all carried out
successfully. The appraisal report estimated that about 7,565 man-months of supervision
services were supplied for the Katse dam and transfer tunnel. This compares with the
estimate of 5,355 man-months at contract award.. Regarding the delivery tunnel the
figures for the appraisal, the contract award and the actual are 1,200 (appraisal), 1,399
(contract award) and 1,525 (actual) man-months respectively. At appraisal it was
estimated that a total of 1,050 man-months would be required for supervision of the
hydropower facilities; This figure was reduced during contract award to 754 man-
months but the actual turnout at 1,040 man-months was much closer to the appraisal
estimate. The implementation of the project involved several optimization studies,
conceptual, tender and detailed design. Though this was a very complex engineering
project, the designs and supervisions services have ensured the delivery of a project of
world class standard.
22.   Advance infrastructure: The advanced infrastructure component was a pre-
requisite before the main civil works could continue (given the topography and state of
development of roads and utilities in the project area). A total of 101.5 km of paved
roads (planned 120 km), 106 km of gravel roads (against the planned 80 k7n), 2 bridges
(as against 1 planned) between Lesotho and RSA (Maputsoe and Caledonspoort), 1
bridge (as planned ) across the Katse reservoir as well as 3 access bridges were
constructed as planned. Other advance infrastructure constructed as per plan include;
residential camps, power lines and work camps.
23. Katse Dam and reservoir: The height of the Katse darn was increased from the
original design height of 182m to 185m high due to the deepening of the foundation. It
is a concrete arch dam with storage capacity of 1,950 million M3 (as against the
original 1,519 million) and associated works have been constructed at Katse.
24. Transfer tunnel:  The length of transfer tunnel was reduced from 48km to 45km
with the Katse intake tower being located 3km upstream from the original location and
was completed on schedule.
25.  Delivery tunnel: The 16 km delivery tunnel segment in Lesotho with a diameter
of 5.0 m and an average flow capacity of 30 m3/s to accommodate water deliveries in
Phase IA and lB of the LHWP was successfully completed ahead of schedule.
26. Hydropower plant and appurtenances: The construction of an underground
power station with 72 MW installed capacity of three units and a 45m high concrete arch
dam at 'Muela with a storage capacity of 0.5 million M3 were completed as per plan. The
station was commissioned in December 1998.
27. Institutional support for, the LHDA:    Support was extended to LHDA through
various technical assistance contracts in the fields of engineering, finance, accounting,



Annex B
Page 7 of 16
environment and human resource development; international panels of experts (POE) in the
fields of engineering (including dam safety) and social and environment issues regularly
visited the project sites. LHDA staff received training in various disciplines and
management information systems were strengthened. The success of the support programme
is evidenced by the fact that locals have gained the necessary skills and experience largely to
replace the original expatriate staff complement; At senior management level, four of the
General Managers are locals with three of them having been recruited from within. The two
Deputy General Managers are both local and almost all the branch managers are local as
well.
28.  Construction Skills Training: A Rural Skills Training Centre was established at
Thaba-Tseka. A total of 783 people went through the training and the majority of them
were successfully placed with the different contractors. The training centre was later
adapted to provide skills in sewing, knitting, building, plumbing and poultry production.
Income generation plans were developed for 370 seriously affected households, taking into
account their needs and preferences.
29. Environmental Protection: The LHDA drew up an Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) which was divided into three parts viz. The Compensation Plan (including
resettlement), the Rural Development Plan and the Natural Environment and Heritage Plan
(initially including Public Health). Construction monitoring and all advance infrastructure
works were rehabilitated; detail mapping of Phase IA catchment land facets was carried out;
various programmes in biological conservation have been and are being implemented. Two
nature reserves (at Bokong and Tsehlanyane) are being established. Archaeological,
paleontological and cultural heritage sites at Liphofung are being conserved and protected.
30. Compensation, Resettlement and Relocation: Regarding compensation for loss of
arable land less than 0.1 ha, annual grain payments have been paid since 1988 and in the
1990' s the nutritional value was improved by adding beans. For larger arable land one-off
lump sum cash payments were paid between 1989 and 1991. Compensation for loss of
communal assets through fodder deliveries was effected between 1994 and 1997 following
the approval of the Compensation Plan in 1990. Thereafter the period of payments has been
increased from 15 years to 50 years following the approval of the new 1997 Compensation
Policy. A revised policy includes options for lump sums or annual cash payments geared
towards developmental projects. Replacement of all housing and associated structures
impacted by project construction and inundation were successfully completed before
inundation (110 and 118 housing units were constructed under the advance infrastructure
and power lines respectively). Under the Katse shoreline replacement housing, 126 housing
units and two schools in six villages were relocated. Due to reservoir induced seismicity at
Mapeleng, 921 houses in ten villages were repaired and reinforced and 93 replacement
houses were constructed.
31. Rural Development: The rural development project includes agricultural production,
rural infrastructure and skills training. On the rural infrastructure component, performance
has been good. Regarding the skills training component, performance has been moderate
while on the agricultural production component performance has been moderate to
unsatisfactory. Out of 121 villages in the Katse local catchment 60 villages have been
supplied with potable water, 1,306 households out of 3,357 have been provided with
Ventilated Improved Pit latrines (VIP). Thirty-one schools out of fifty-nine have been



Annex B
Page 8 of 16
provided with potable water and sanitation facilities. The programmes are still on-going to
cover the rest of the villages and schools.
32.  A notable positive feature of the project's rural development programme is that
while a relatively small number of people were directly adversely affected by project
construction activities, yet the rural development programme covered a far large number
of households in addition to those directly affected.
33. Studies: An Organization and Management (O & M) study was carried out over a
two year period from 1994 to 1996. The primary focus of the Organization and Manpower
Study was to prepare LHDA to meet its future requirements effectively and efficiently and
to advise upon the structural and cultural transformation that was required to enable it to
achieve its objectives. The study also addressed the transitional issues that LHDA could face
in moving from a construction and engineering organization responsible for various phases
of the LHWP, to an operating utility which is itself directly engaged and responsible for the
operation and maintenance of completed phases of the Project. In implementing the
recommendations of the 0 & M study, the LHDA launched a Transformation Project which
resulted in a new LHDA Vision and Mission. Furthermore the application of the 0 and M
Study recommendations has ensured that LHDA has a new organization structure that is
relevant to its current needs in the implementation of Phase IB with the establishment of the
Operations and Maintenance activities, the application of community driven environmental
and social services programmes, and the continuity of the construction and engineering
activities of Phase lB. The development of an LHDA leadership model has contributed to
an increased performance from LHDA staff. Specific areas that the desired leadership
model centers on are people centred empowerment, delivery of performance, commercial
and business orientation, pioneering and forward looking (visionary).
34. A management accounting study, financed by the World Bank was commissioned
primarily to ensure that the Treaty and Loan Agreement reporting requirements could be
achieved. The study was expected to result in a comprehensive cost allocation approach and
the development of key performance indicators. The study focussed mostly on Activity
Based Costing (ABC) approach which could not be readily applied to the LHWP business
processes. Subsequently, the LHDA and the JPTC together developed and refined principles
underlying the cost allocation approach to be used.
35. A management performance audit of LHDA was carried out in 1995 by the JPTC.
The main objectives were to assess compliance with the Treaty and Order, review the
effectiveness of the LHDA's management, management systems and procedures, and
investigate specific areas and processes such as auditing, appointment of consultants,
contract administration, implementation of RDP and the recruitment process. The study
identified a number of weaknesses, many resulting from defects in corporate governance,
and apparent in such areas as long term strategic planning, the budgeting process, the
structure of the organization, flow of information, performance management systems and
procedures and lack of office/management infrastructure. The study also acknowledged that
several initiatives had been launched by the LHDA to address certain weaknesses including
financial reporting and recording and also identified areas of strength such as high morale
in some departments. Some of the recommendations of the study included the re-
organisation of the LHDA around three core businesses, with focus on the end customer, the
adoption of process rather than functional thinking, tight management control systems with



Annex B
Page 9 of 16
appropriate performance contracts at senior staff levels and suitable job descriptions for
major positions. The study also notes the critical role played by JPTC in such areas as cost
allocation, improved financial reporting, the improved quality of the Request for Proposals
(RFPs) and contracts procedures. The impact of the study, in addition to other performance
improvement initiatives, has enabled the LHDA to streamline its management systems and
deliver effectively in Phase IA and to use the experience gained to better plan Phase lB.
36. Development Fund: The Government of Lesotho established a Development Fund
in 1992 whose main aim was to ensure that the project's royalties are effectively used to
promote economic development in Lesotho. During its first two years of operation (1995/96
- 97) the development account disbursed more than M152 million to support rural
infrastructure projects involving about 1,100 km of rural roads, 210 small dams, 60 foot
bridges and a number of forestry and soil conservation activities. In addition, a limited
number of relatively larger investments in the Government's Public Sector Investment
Programme (about M40 million) have been supported including the development of a water
resources management strategy and ceramics and mohair projects. From lessons learned in
the first years of operation, the Fund has been restructured to respond to the needs of the
communities and national public sector investment priorities. The Fund is now known as the
Lesotho Fundfor Community Development (LFCD).
37. Roads and border crossings: A total of 1,13.3 km of roads were rehabilitated, and 2
border crossing facilities at Caledonspoort and Maputsoe were constructed and equipped.
They are all currently operational.
G. Project Financing and Strategy
38. Project Cost and Financing Plan : The total Phase IA project cost was estimated at
M8.441 or US$2.414 billion during appraisal of the project in 1991. Thus the World Bank's
loan for US$110 million accounted for about 5.5% of the total project cost. The project was
to be financed 64% from Common Monetary Area (CMA) funding and 36% from
international funding. The details on the financing plan for phase IA are given in the
attached table. The plan reflects the break down as follows;
Table 1: LHWP: Financing Plan for Phase IA
Financing Plan
Expressed in      Expressed in
US$  million    Maloti million    Percentage
Equivalent       Equivalent l
International funding
Donor Agencies & Bilaterals     391.2            1,459.5          16.2
Export Credit Agencies          411.1            1,533.8          17.0
European Comm. Banks             67.0             250.0            2.8
Sub-total                        869.2           3,242.9           36
CMA Financing
RSA and Lesotho sources        1,545.6          5,766.5           64
Total Funding                     2,414.8          9,007.9           100
I A weighted average exchange rate of US$1 to M3. 730903 for the years 1992 to 1999 has been used.



Annex B
Page 10 of 16
39. Financing Strategy: The LHWP was commenced at the time when South Africa was
politically isolated and subject to international economic sanctions, therefore in order that
borrowings could ultimately be guaranteed by South Africa, the ultimate borrower, without
financiers having the embarrassment of direct contact, a sophisticated trust mechanism was
put in place. The key element of the financing strategy was to procure full project funding at
the lowest possible cost. The guiding principle has been a target of an average cost of
funding of not more than 15%. This strategy has succeeded as explained in the section on
achievements below.
H. World Bank Performance.
40. Overall, the involvement of the World Bank during the preparation and implementation
stage of PhaselA of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project has been highly beneficial, as it
has helped LHDA to implement this complex project sucessfully.
Project Financing
41.   Though its contribution was relatively small (5.5% of total project financing), the
World Bank's contribution as a catalyst was enormous. Its involvement created confidence
amongst the funding agencies. The Bank also facilitated, amongst other areas of
collaboration, the involvement of an internationally renowned and independent tender
evaluation team for Phase IA main works contracts.
Technical assistance
42.   Regarding the engineering works, the Bank always stressed the need to conduct
detailed geotechnical investigations at the main works sites in order to reduce the
construction risks during the implementation stage. The Bank also ensured that each
periodic review by the Panel of Experts included not only an engineer but experts from other
disciplines.
Supervision Missions
43. Project implementation was regularly and closely supervised by the Bank. Throughout
the implementation of PhaselA, the Bank assigned a supervision team that visited the
Project twice a year, mostly designed to coincide with the visits of the Panel of Experts.
The involvement of the supervising missions was helpful as they closely monitored the
physical and financial progress as well as the social and environmental issues of the Project.
Environmental Issues
44.  On environmental and social issues, the supervision missions pointed out the lack of
comprehensive environmental clauses in the specifications and tender documents which led
to difficulty in enforcing adherence. Early in implementation the focus was on engineering
and physical aspects. The later shift towards emphasis on environmental and social issues
should have come earlier to ensure that these issues were addressed to the same level or in
tandem with the engineering and construction programme.



Annex B
Page 11 of 16
Aides Memoire
45. Aides Memoire were of high quality and pointed out areas of achievement and areas of
concern. Key areas to be addressed with a time frame were highlighted and this helped to
speed up resolution of problems and flagged critical issues that needed to be addressed by
LHDA and both governments to facilitate efficient and effective completion of the Project's
programmes.
Panel of Experts
46. The Bank's decision to approve the appointment of an experienced Panel of Experts at
an early stage was appropriate. The Panel of Experts, both in the engineering and
environment disciplines, were appointed to monitor the implementation of the Project and
advise in resolving implementation issues. This has enhanced quality control and helped
optimise the costs.
Project Benefits
47.  The Bank played a crucial role in ensuring that the benefits accruing from the project
implementation are well managed for the good of the citizens of Lesotho through creation of
the development fund, The Lesotho Fundfor Community Development (LFCD).
Continuity of the Task Team Members
48. While in general the input by the Bank has been of immense benefits as stated above,
nevertheless it could have been even higher had it not been for the high turnover of the
Bank's personnel dedicated to the Project's supervision. For some of the environment and
social programmes, fresh staff meant fresh inputs, while for others it meant loss of
continuity.  Furthermore, the World Bank prioritized some environment and social
programmes over others.
I. The Borrower's Performance.
49. Overall, the borrower's performance during the preparation and implementation stages
of Phase IA of the LHWP has been good. The various Treaty and loan agreements
covenants have been honoured.
50. The institutional arrangements which were put in place provide a good forum for the
implementation of this bi-national Project in a satisfactory manner for the benefit of both
countries. The JPTC monitored the implementation of the activities of both LHDA and
TCTA and safeguarded the provisions of the Treaty very well.
51. Through transformation and restructuring the LHDA has satisfactorily tackled the issue
of improving its technical and managerial performance in the programmes' implementation.
52.  LHDA participated in the various engineering studies and services performed during
the project preparation stage which resulted in refining Phase IA of the Lesotho Highlands
Water Project to its final completed stage.



Annex B
Page 12 of 16
53. The earlier studies, including the feasibility study, enabled Lesotho and RSA jointly to
implement Phase lA of Lesotho Highlands Water Project.
54. LHDA engaged experienced consultants to undertake engineering, environmental and
social studies and designs for various engineering, environmental and social programmes.
55. The Disputes Review Board (DRB) concept was introduced in 1993 for Katse dam and
in 1994 for the Transfer and Delivery Tunnels respectively. The intention was to ensure
settlement of contractual claims without going to costly arbitration. The LHDA has
implemented acceptable DRB recommendations.
56.   As far as the implementation of the Environmental Action Plan is concerned, the
performance has varied from satisfactory to unsatisfactory. There are, therefore, areas of
performance and of non-performance, as well as factors attributed to each. At a broad level,
implementation started in response to construction activities, especially those tied to the
engineering programme. Thus, the programmes slipped behind as the main focus was to
catch up with engineering programme implementation which was ahead at the time of EAP
preparation (1988- 90). Therefore environmental programmes tied to engineering activities
would tend to show more achievements than those which started at various later stages. An
additional consideration is the intricacies involved in social and environmental issues. The
pace at which a project implementing agency would like to move invariably is affected by
the pace of the communities in which the project is to operate.
J. Key Lessons Learned.
(i)   In order to ensure effective delivery , management of programmes should strictly
enforce proper planning with target output indicators, timing, performance
monitoring and evaluation, and corrective action where necessary.
(ii)   Training and capacity building for LHDA staff managing the programmes should be
emphasised .
(iii)  In Phase IA a significant amount of local costs was funded out of foreign
funding. At the time it could be argued that the cost of borrowing abroad was
cheaper, but in hindsight additional costs of forward cover have not resulted in
much savings. The consequences are even more severe for the hydropower
station where the cost of cover is unsubsidised and more expensive. Regarding
the engineering programmes, it is important to ensure continuity between design and
construction supervision by retaining the services of the same consultant whenever
possible.
(iv)   All engineering studies contracts must contain detailed and project specific as
well as global environmental components
(v)   Participation of all affected parties should be promoted as early as the project
conceptualisation stage to ensure sustainability of the facility at the end of
construction. Provision should be made very early on for detailed documentation
and steps to be taken with regard to handing over of completed LHWP assets to
GOL departments, other agencies and the communities.



Annex B
Page 13 of 16
(vi)   Detailed geotechnical investigations should be mandatory in all tender design
contracts and disclosure of the results should be provided to tenderers in tender
documents. Where doubt exists as to interpretation of the results, the tender
documents should provide for the worst case scenario with well-defined options
to change should actual conditions encountered improve (e.g. transfer tunnel
lining).
(vii) An independent and internationally renowned Panel of Experts provides a good
audit of the design and delivery of the programmes. They should be used
continuously between design and delivery/construction stages and in all future
phases, including infrastructure studies.
(viii) Technology transfer from expatriates to locals should be through structured training
programmes coupled with professional institution guidelines. It should be managed
with clear and measurable and/or verifiable expectations upfront. The success of the
transfer largely depends on commitment from both parties.



Annex B
Page 14 of 16
Comments on the World Bank's ICR on Phase IA of the LHWP
1.0 General Comments
1.1 Sustainability of Operations
The LHDA is also concerned about the sustainability of operations hence current efforts
to ensure that project operated assets and facilities handed over to government institutions
or the village communities are operated on a sustainable basis.
The Bank's ICR , in hindsight, expresses the view that a better design of the project
"would have entrusted some of the components to Government ministries and agencies
already active in those fields."
The view of LHDA has always been that it is in the long term more effective to adopt an
integrated approach rather than a decentralized delivery of the project's operations. This
approach would also have, as a prerequisite, a clear exit plan. The LHDA's view is
therefore that " There is need for full integration of all affected parties in the planning,
design and construction of all infrastructures and facilities to ensure sustainable
operation and maintenance". This lesson is being taken over within the context of phase
lB and firther phases. Particular emphasis is placed on, inter alia, appropriate
institutional arrangements.
An important consideration is that at the time of project design and implementation there
were deficiencies in capacity across several sectors in the country, including the
Government ministries. Within this context therefore the LHDA does recognize that
Government agencies should have been strengthened to develop the capacity to be able to
participate effectively in the planning, design and implementation and to later
successfully take over the facilities while ensuring that LHDA can successfully execute
the programmes with well defined and coordinated exit plan.
1.2 Project Objectives
The LHDA's view is that the project objectives as stated in that appraisal report are
basically at the project output level of the logicalframework. It is important that these are
correctly stated at the much higher level of project purpose. Within this context the
primary purpose of the LHWP can be stated as follows;
Project's purpose
"To harness the Lesotho highlands water into a sustainable development resource for the
improvement of quality of life in Lesotho and South Africa"



Annex B
Page 15 of 16
Project's outputs
In order to achieve its purpose the project is designed to deliver on, inter alia, completion
of civil works, generation of export revenues and generation of hydropower and delivery
of the agreed upon environmental and social objectives.
Project's activities
In order to achieve the above stated outputs, the project was designed with activities that
included, studies, engineering and construction supervision, raising of finance, provision
of technical assistance, institution building and training of staff and other activities.
Against this background, the purpose of the implementation completion report (ICR) is
therefore to assess the performance of the project at the output level.
1.3 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
The LHDA would like to highlight the fact that before the Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) could be implemented, detailed investigations meeting standards for
environmental assessment at the time were carried out. Feasibility study of the project
could not have ignored such an important element of project design. The contentious
issue has always been the extend to which these investigations were actually documented
in a systematic manner and lack of or slow implementation of environmental mitigation
measures. This however does not negate the fact the EAP was actually informed by the
findings of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
2.0 Specific Comments
For convenience, the bulk of our comments are directly made on the text itself. These
include corrections of the typographical errors, restatement of some phrases to provide
better clarity on our perception and interpretation of policy, issues, and concepts.
Below we only highlight some of these corrections;
Preface
2.1 Second paragraph
We have included the concept of "localization". in addition to "regionalisation" of some
technical assistance.
We have also highlighted the fact that during actual implementation there were certain
changes in the source of financing of the project.



Annex B
Page 16 of 16
2.2 Paragraph 10 page (iv)
One of the difficulties the project encountered was not in securing finance per se but in
securing concessionary finance.
2.3 Para 13 page (v) see also para 66 page 16 - Social Investments
At the time of the preparation of the ICR, the LHDA had transferred ownership of the
houses the people who were resettled. The outstanding issue was that of legally
transferring leasehold to the owners as this process takes a long time but the houses
themselves have been handed over.
2.4 Para 16 page (vi)
Our view is that the programs were adequately designed however there were
shortcomings in the actual implementation.
2.5 Para 32 page 8 - The water quality component.
The reference to the period between 1993 and 1996 could be deleted without changing
the import of the statement. It is a fact that the component has not been effective in
developing all the necessary skills and facilities and that LHDA continues to outsource
the analysis of the water samples. The current initiatives to redress this include option of
using the facilities of the National University of Lesotho was they have developed that
capacity.
2.6 Para 83 page 21 - Lessons
The LHDA notes that an important lesson is to include, amongst other things, a sound
policy on employment of affected communities and not just "selection of labour" as
stated in the ICR.
2.7 Table 1: Summary of Assessment - page 24
We note that the Bank has rated the LHDA's performance in "Covenant Compliance" as
"satisfactory". While we also note that this may have ben due to delays related to the
Organization and Manpower study and the Management Accounting study, the LHDA
would wish to see a reconsideration of this rating for two main reasons viz.
*  The compliance with legal covenants in Phase IA was in general particularly faster
and
*  As stated in the LHDA's ICR the Management Accounting study focussed mostly on
activity based costing (BC) approach, which could not be readily, applied to the
LHWP processes. It was against this background that the LHDA and the JPTC (now
LHWC) to develop and refine principles and methods which will better address the
objectives of cost allocation.



IBRD 21773
*    ANGOLA  !ZAMBIA  2n      J                         28'    0roe.I
IMBABWB(EY           e     oxo'
*  NAMIBIA    I                    VF
r BOTSWANA.;-                000imw rhO                A   J             O%
t ] ])ffi -m-ww"-' /  >  <7_  50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUTH A FR IC A
\4>d3~~   j'-   lgPn-,' 'o'eeo,,e,oxoleorCrl                                              %/i
27U-
SOR~fm) 0TI AFRICA  Ms3g;KSK iBrf ooocoion      _ y               IPow ser Comlexr            ) 
2.                                                              Pi i                                                         N ikbrS§ § t X ,,adl     
29'            F            ;                     P78;E;<>,  to                  -          tMrf   ,,o-errbe)  5
So.lhAI .:Jv M~/                                  IUk       Pha  KA and II    U o\esg                ¾               2
y)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                       Seiro5ghong  g  5'
Moirol Hoo                                           r'z'-   HIGHLANDS WATER PROJECT (PHASE IA)
rozostron 4- g 1  W   2ovzhog         9                            PROJECT LAYOUT, AND ELECTRIC
8 g>\ A , I = ~~~~~~~POWER RESOURCES AND FACILITIES
S 0 U T H  C  f\ w  )   X             _      h    TRANU~~~~~~~LNESSSO  RESERVOIRS    NEW ROADS  CUpODRSAGEDS  TUNNELS
A F R 1 C A   >)    Iqthin3   m    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_______                                                     PHASE II
IH -j, Ph., I>xu,   <   )       [                                            PHASE 111,PA Y
V           >                  0\>    >                                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 132kV SUBSTATION
/              -  T       EXISTING TRANSMISSION LINES:  _  RIVERS
i_ ~~~K J ~~88kV                                         -ETISTING ROADS
USET                     *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
KILOMETERS  T    IS   UT   TO   40   STO                                          11kV                    - '-  INTERNATIONAL TOUNDARIES
,   .   .   ,                                      *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MINI HYDROSITET
M&2AhlLE5 T    10      20        TV         2&                                                       zsP
MARCH 1991



