Documnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11534.JI
STAI APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
REFORM OF SECORDARY EDIICATIOM
MARCH 4, 1993
Mi!i' .O12UhL 1jF.,y
" e5f{ 'i'.9 fé*  i1 _ .J-_ ,   _'p,  _S4 
~jtc?-  P ]RMi CF E-t:FONDA~RY 7'   ~ UyrTI
rAs.h)   .i-*TF?gi,'.1
E.: t.  9fRl  i?o:i         ,79   i/--'
Country Department III
Umnnn Resources Operations Division
Latin America anad the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only iu the pertonnance of
their offiiilf duties. Its contents may not oewise be disclosed witut Wold Bank 2athoizWoL_



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Current Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1.00 = J$25.0
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARP           Administrative Reform Program
CAST          College of Arts, Science and Technology
CTC           Cultural Trainingr Center
EMIS          Educational Management Information System
GOJ           Government of Jamaica
HEART         Human Employment and Resource Training
HRDP          Human Resources Development Program
IBMS          Institution Based Monitoring System
ISER          Institute for Social and Economic Research
JBTE          Joint Board of Teacher Education
JSC           Jamaica School Certificate
JTA           Jamaica Teachers' Association
MLWS          Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sport
MOEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH           Ministry of Health
NAP           National Assessment Program
ODA           Overseas Development Agency (U.K.)
PIOJ          Planning Institute of Jamaica
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSIP          Public Sector Investment Program
ROSE          Reform of Secondary Education
SESP          Social and Economic Support Program
SLC           Survey of Living Conditions
STATIN        Statistical Institute of Jamaica
UWI           University of the West Indies



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
AMUALCA
REFORM FSOPCODMARX DCTO
STASF-F PPIWSAL XPR
Table of Cm=k
BASiCDA         T         HE ......................................................ii
LOMAN D A DPOE CTSU YD A   ................................................   iv
I.BACKG-ROUN         .....................................................    I
A. The EconomicSetting ...................................................    I
B.lbe SOCW Sectm   ...................................................    2
H.   THE ED CAllO   SECT'OR .................................................. 4
A. Osveriw   ......................................................    4
B. Sdetecd  Euesin Eduaion .................................................    6
C.  'Me Gve(0    nts 'svwy  .................................................   10
D. DonorSuppor  ....................................................   11
E. Put BankExxien    and LessonsLeamd  ...........................................  12
F. Rationalefr Ban  Involvefmen  ............................................... 12
m.  MHPCC    ......................................................   13
A. Project Objecdves andSxe  ................................................   13
B. ProjectDescriptin  ..................................................   13
C. ProjectComponemls ................................................... 14
Iv. PROJECT,COSIl$.FDNANCDNGMAUNAGEMENT AND                                   &YEETlQ  ................................., 23
A. Proect Costs a    Financig ................................................. 23
D. Prwrememr .................................. ....... ......  27
C.                 ............................                      .       .        .         30
D. Acounfhgand Audifng ......... .............  31
E. Project MymgeecndEnlnAo i I          ii..................    31
V. PROJECr BENEFNE AND RISKS .....................    33
A. Bmefi" .......................... .                                               .          33
B. Risks .............................    34
VI. A GF           UlENIREAMHED AND                                ..................   34
Wsreonis bm  ndo    fnopofprpado ad  prqfb d                        which vidwd Jm aduriog 1991192, led bye
Ms. Lo  McGum(WAHR),sndanapprmd a"=1D Odlibe 19 2 onhg oMesMa£ M  ImAn _ ,
SoR  foect CosNAM& Aware_ C4rss, LA3HR);- She Kdd4 G                  fm lmes va  1eve, Lynn tDon, Came
DevAWS(Cow*=%). Me. MathVii liw (.A3HR) conrM     _mtt ds P wa    OOn reatbeaPew
(AiTHP.).
This document has a _eWtd  disibuton and may be used by ecipients only In tho pcKformance
of tdrk offcial dutios. Its contents may Mo othoswse be disebsod without Wofdd halk authorization.



] i }llE ijil 
Iq  vIsI  j:i  o  ___.... *1   -  U *¢X
WI       YIIII .j*M MM i MM IM
< aaaaa $Q$33 $$ QaQ 



- IHi -
BA81C Dw, S=
yl  YA           am
A.       OWN pen Q v   0
A.   pop"on  nimsm OAUW                                                2.41      1990
2. Population Projedon (M o                                             2.7      2000       4
3. Gm per Cata (US$)                                                    1,3I0    1991       8
4. Avre Anud GDP Growth RAte (190-9                                     1.6      198M90
3. Area ('000 KMZ)                                                      11       1992       a
6. Utban Populatlc (as a%ofT*M)                                         52      1MO
B,.      Soca lfdl
1. Cndb bit ras (per 1000)                                             24        1990      a
2. Crude deah rat (   1000)                                             6        19 m
3. Avere A a Rata of Poplon Govth (%)                                   1.3      198090
4. Ttal Felit  Rd Brth perWoman                                         2.8      1990       a
5. Int Mort   Rate  wr 10001 UV Brts)                                   16       1990       a
6. Ufa EspVctan  at Bih (yer)                                          73        1990       4
t. Not haomn Raes
Preschool                                                           92.1     1989i90    b
Prmay (Grades 1-6)                                                 98        1991
Lower Scoay (Gdes 7-9)                                               2       1991
Upper Seonday (Gftde 1l1)                                           63.3    1997        c
Upper Sondary (Grde 12-13)                                          2.7      1987 c
bwer                                                                5        1985       a
2. Expendture Data
Total Publ Education Speedn (S df GDP                               5.3      199"191    f
Total Public Edwcat  Spendi  (  Tota Fina Epadtin)                  13.8     199081    f
Tola Pblic Education SpmIg (S Total HId Expulta  Ne of Deft)   22.6          199081     f
S-aes of Public BEducatio ExeMu
P.school                                                            2.2      199081    b
PrIar                                                               36.4    199081    b
Seconday                                                            3        1990191    b
HIgher                                                              21.3     1990I   b
3. Pvate Provis
Pneschool                                                           4.6      1987/s9    c
Primary                                                             4.8      1990       b
Seconday                                                            5.7      197/8    c
4. Bfficeny Data
S        Tdaatb Ratio
Primary                                                            34       1999       a
Iwer Secondary                                                     21       1987188    c
Seoay                                                              19       19/99    c
Repetition Rates (5
Prma                                                               3        1986.S8    4
Dropout Rats (%)k/
Primay                                                             18       199648    d
Soises aiid NMtes: a) Word Deelopme   eot, 1992; b) conomc ad Soial Su     of 1mI, 1991; c) Jmi  Fihe Yew
Deelopmet Pla for Education (19901995); d) Hmn D      puat RaPo  1991; e) Acces, Quality ad Efficeq  in Cmd n Edu-cabo,
1992; t) 1S   updat  92; 8) Wod Bak Aa, 1992; I) proortin Of clil. GenOinIg th first ged, oft prmw   ol w   do aot
aucoesely complet hat leel in due cor



- iv -
1AMA1CA
REFORM 0& S13ONDAR,Y2p(lQ
ST AP"IRSAL REPORT
Botrzower          Jamaica
Beneficiaries and   Minisry of Education and Culte (MOEC)
1    iesAgMM:  Plannmg Int8u of Jamaica (IOJ)
L4oa    _           US$32.0 million equivalent
Tagms:              Repaymt in 17 years, including a 4-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
OW=  M2Cf:   IThe project will: (a) improve the quality, efficiency and equity of lower
secoary education (Grades 7-9), with particular emphasis on schools serving
the poorest stdents, by providig the necessy educational inputs and
support services for Phase I of a 15-year lunior seconday reform program;
(b) strengthen the capacity of the MOEC to plan and monitor the impact of
the reform though improved evaluation and   m    systms; and (c)
sutengdhen the Govet's capaciy to undeake sophisticated socialpol
Malisi and use the results in formulaing more effctive and tgrgeted social
Programs.
Ihe project compiss tre main components:
(1) Som s  Reform         (82.4% of total ptoject costs,) would include:
(a) the intoduction of a common curiculum in Grades 7-9; (b) related pre-
service and inmservice traiing of teachers and scool atrs; (c)
provision of textbooks; (d) provision of educatonal support materiads; (e)
improvemes in, and limited new construction of, physical Inftuture for
schools adopting the common curiculum; and (t) studies and pilot programs
for improving upper seconday education (Grades 10-13).
(2) Evaluatina andgMmp thtning (8.7% of project costs) would
include: (a) rionalizing the eminaon system by reducing the redundancy
and moving the utlity of eams for selection, certification and monitoring
trends by developing a new Grade 9 Test; (b) establishing a Secondary
Reform Management Team to ensure that the reform is adequtely suported
and integratd into all the relevant MOEC functional units; (c) conducting a
public awareness campaign to infrm lky stakeholders and the general public
about the benefts of the refom; (d) developing an evaluation system to
monitor the impact of the new curriculum on student achievement; and (e)
prepring the second five-year phase of the reform.



(3)  (ica     ayi 88.9% of tota project coM), would improve the
capacity of the Govenmen to undetake sophisticaed socil policy analysis
and fomulato more effietive and targetod social sector programs through: (a)
the establis t of a Social Policy Analysis Unit in the P0OI to identify
topics for policy aalysis, perorW acontct out rsarch, provide trainng
and dissem on m       sm  to socia sector line ministries; (b) in-service
training for policy makers and rs in key social sector ministries in
research methodology and socW policy analysis; (c) support to the University
of the West Indies (UWI) to upgrade faculty and graduate training in policy
analysis andto etablish a Data Bank at the Iute of Economic and Social
Research (SER); and (d) support to the Statitical Instie of Jmaca
(STATIN) to implement the Survey of Living Conditions (SLC).
&DJ= Benefits:       bhe project would assist the Govenment in achieving two cental education
objectives: (a) to improve the quity and equity of basic education,
spcifialy Grades 7-9; and (b) to strengtlhen the system's capacity to plan and
monitor improvets in the quality of education. The increase in
educationd al p_" for basic educatio will help redress inibalances in
the allocation of public sector resources among different levels of education,
by directng more resoures to higher-yielding lower education levels.
Improved relevanc and quality of basic education would ultimately provide
better trined and tFAinable manpower for the economy. Higher overall levels
of achivemnt  d inrased resources targeted on the poorest groups of
students wOuld enhance ef     in the use of public sector resources. A
rationalized exam system would: reduce the redudncy and cost of exams in
the education sytm, and eventually postpon the selection of students for
ademic streams until Grade 9; provide stdents leaving the educaion system
at Grade 9 with school leaving edficats reflectig a recognized level of
achievement for potent  employers; and provide a reliable measure of
learig oupt for policy analyis. Improved socia policy analysis through a
relvant research agenda will help the Govenment to more effectively target
scarce resoures for socia sector programs.
}Eroi9 Riss:        Pdnci  project risks relate to: (a) budgetary constrain  leading to the
scarcity of both countp  funds and the release of er  resources; (b)
poteal backlsh fom those beeitting from the exsig elitist system; and
(c) weak impl      n capacity, particualy regarding civil works. With
regard to (a), the Bankes financing of a high share (79%) of project costs as
well as planned coflnancing (6%) would reduce the need for counterpart
fnding, thus easn the GOJ's fisal burden. In adaition, the Bank will
monitor the    o      of sectr priorities in the cone  of Anmnl Reviews
of progress towards social sector objectives as reflected in the proposed
project and the Hum   Resource Development Program (HRDP), also
supported by the BaL Mmese priities have recenty been reflected
conistenty in other policy stement issued by the Goverment (the Public
Sector   _t    Program (PSIP), the Medium Term Policy Framework and
the Letter of Development Policy in the proposed Private Sector Development



-vi -
Adjutm    Loan). n regard to (b), the MOEC has already bogu a phae
public ecation campaign which the project wil support, to ensure, that all
of th reeant s    oder recogi te benbft of th reform.
tin_II     g       p t    oppose to the reom have ben brouh
into the delopment process ely in dth rem planing s      Pta- Finly
regari  (c), the MOEC has adopted an  egraed          approach to
the reform program  ther thA Astand-alone MU which wil provide:
fleibiity in m      and hapl      both dte  m   ad the project; and
ensure that th far-reahing aspet of the refom   are hned in all areas of
th Minty. CompoAn    with            or sp ized mapower
_ ,  wch as tho day-04W  _a W of civil work eecuton,
will be cntact  out und  h oveall supevin of the MOECs Reom
_aagmet Team



-vi -
Cot:#/    E     &
US$ milion
Common Curriculum 1.4         0.4          1.8
ROSE Training    4.8          0.1         4.9
Education Materials  0.4      1.7         2.1
Textbooks        0.3          0.8          1.1
Inrastructure    9.9          5.9         15.8
Upper Sec strategy  1.1       0.0          1.1
Evaluation and Mngement S he
Exam Ralization 0.3           0.5         0.8
ROSE Ma          0.8          0.2          1.0
Public Campaign    0.2        0.0         0.2
ROSE Evaluion    O.A          0.2         0.6
ROSE Phase II Prep 0.3        0.0         0.3
Poliay Analyis and Moasmnt
Policy Anaysis Unit 1.4       0.2          1.6
Line Ministries  0.1          0.1         0.2
UWI              0.3          0.4         0.7
SLC              0.4          0.2         0.6
Tota Base Costs       22.1         10.6        32.7
Physical C  gcies    0.9          0.6          1.5
Price Contingencies   5.7         0.8          6.5
Total Project Costs    28.7        12.0         40.7
US$ million
IBRD                   20.9        11.1         32.0
Netherlands             1.8         0.9         2.7
Government             6.0          0.0         6.0
Total                  28.7        12.0         40.7
hwludinhg tas md duties, whvch ame mgligbh. TDA mq not ad dw to ro,wst.



- vill -
MM   -Djm=: (US$ million)
IBD FY       1994  I22S  1996  1997   1922   1999 m000
Annual       2.0   2.6    6.4   6.4    6.4   5.2   2.6   0.4
Cumulative    2.0   4.6   11.0  17.4   23.8  29.0  31.6  32.0
3nomic go of Retumrn Not applicable.
Me. IBRD No. 20846



REIPOM OF SEE?DAMY E3DLTCATION
I. BACKQRtUN
A. Ibe EconomicSefn
1.1   Jamaica has bee undertaking a process of adjustment to achieve a sound macroeconr mic
framework and establish the basis for sustained growth and development. Various agreemen  with
the innational Monetary Fund and four sectoral adjustment loans from the Bank have supported the
Governmen's efforts. Adjustment has been difficult in a small, oil-importing economy, highly
vulnerable to sharp changes in terms of trade and ote eenal shocks. Even though Jamaica has
done virtally no eal net borrowing since the mid-1980s, recent growth in the US dollar value of
Jamaica's outading exernal debt because of the appreciation of other major currencies in relation
to the US dollar and declines in net official financing have woreed amaica s debt over-hang. N4ow,
exernal debt service consumes almost half of the Govement's budget. These factors, combined
with natural disasters and domestic policy indequacies, have led to almost two decades of very low
growth and a marked deterioration in the social inastructure. On a per capita basis, Jamaica's
income today is lower than at the begining of the 1970s, witi poverty deepening at the lower incom
segmen of the population.
1.2 The new Government that came into office in 1989 took drastic actions to: (i) accelerate the
pace of reforms; (ii) reduce the size of the public sector through cuts in subsidies, stremining of
government expendirs, and a stepped-up privaization effort; and (ii) establish a Human Resoues
nevetRme Pxoeg= (HRDP) to restore the flow of funds to core social sects, with particular
emphasis on the poor, while improving the efficiency and equity of these ewpenditures.
1.3   Macreconomic policies and outcomes during 1991 were worse than expected, but major
improvements came in 1992. The public sector accounts were roughly in balance by the end of the
year. The elimination of subsidies on imported products, negative real inerest rates, and the sharp
devaluadon of the Jamaican dollar a year ago conetutd to accelerated inflation-from 28% in
1990/91 to over 100% in the 12 months to March 1992. Since Spring 1992, fisca and monetary
policies have been dghtened, the ehe rate has stabilized, and inflation has dropped to about 1%
per month. In the EFF with the IMP, approved last December, the GOJ made a commitment to
achieve public sector surpluses of 2.5% of GDP in 1993/94-after couning Bank of Jamaica losses
and not couting proceeds from diveatn-and 3.5% of GDP in 1994/95. The Government
recognizes the severe constraints ta the country continues to face: vulnerability to terms of trade
shocks and natural disters, the heavy burden of a large extrnal debt, the deficiency of economic
infrastructure, the d oration of social services and the increase in poverty. For the 1990s,
prospects for fnancing growth-inducing capital expenditures do not appear promising as net resource
flows have decreased sustlly with det transfers now negligible. Medium- to long-term
prospects, however, will depend on the Government's capacity to enhance stabilization eflbrts and
ste   policy reforms neded to genrate and sustain growth.
1.4 Jamaica's economic performance, in turn, afsects its educational provision in two principal
ways: it influences the availability of both public and private resources to finane education; and
together with the strcture of growth, it dermines the level and composition of demand for labor.



-2 -
The economic and libeSiion measurs adopted to date seek to achieve increased efficiency and
growth tbrough edhanced competition and more open markets. If successful, these meaues should
positively affect labor demand. However, a more competitive environment will encourage growth of
non-traditiona exports, where Jamaica has or can rapidly develop a comparative advantage. As
economic actes change in response to changes In the incentive framework, so will the demand for
specific sklls. 'he flexibiity of the work force, especially its moblity and abilty to quickly acquir
marketable skills through a solid general education, will largely detemine the rapidity of labor
absorption and its productivity in emerging sectrs, and ultimately, growth prospects.
1.5 Ensuring that the most vulnerable segments of the population are active contributors to the
growth process through enhanced skills will be a high priority. In the education sector, provision of
an adequate basic education for all children, but especially those coming from least well-off families,
will be a key requirment for achieving broader development objectives.
B. IUD Soci Sectors
1 6 Jamaica's social indicators are generally more favorable than those of other countries in the
Latn American and Caribbean region at similar levels of income. A history of relatively high
allocations of public resources to the social sectors in part explains these results. The infant mortlity
rate fell by two-thirds between 1960 and the mid-1980s to only 20 deaths per 1,000 live-births;
primary enrollment rates are nearly universal; and, female participation in education is one of the
highest in the region. Ihe deterioration of economic conditions and worsening fisa balances in the
1970s and early 1980s, however, led to deep and ill-targeted cuts in government social ependiures.
Biedgetary pressures increased such that by 1986, real outlays in education were 25% lower than in
1981 and 35% lower in health. There was an accompanying deterioration in the quality and capacity
to deliver social sevices. And, in 1988, Hurricane Gilbert caused ensive losses throughout the
countr, fiurther damaging a social service network already in need of repair.
1.7   In response to these mounting problems, the Human Resources Development Program
(HDP) was intrduced in 1988, with a Secretiat lodged in the Planning lnstitt of Jamaica
(PIJJ). Cover*g both new itiatives and ongoing projects (cuntly _nbering 18), the Human
Resources Development Program embodies the GOI's commitment to social sector development and
povty allevistion within the constraints of the economic program. The overall aims of the HRDP
are to provide an increased share of resources to the social sectors (Annex 1, Table 9), and to initiate
policy refoms to geate greater efficiency and more equity in the use of these resources. Major
policy meas include: (i) an incased share of Ministry of Health (MOH) and Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC) recurrent eenditures devoted to primary health care and basic
education (rades 1-9); (ii) improved targetig of nutrition aid (mvolving the phasng out of genera
food subsidies, tigned eligibility requemen  for food stamps, and targeted expansion of school
lunch programs) and employment assistace; (iii) increased cost recovery in public hospitals and
seconday schools; and (iv) institutional stegthening and imp   montoring.
1.8   Progress of the HRDP is being monitored, inr alia through an Anmnal Review by the
Goverment, with the participation of the Bank and other donors-the fist such Review was held in



-3-
February 1991.1' The discussions during the Review take place at twG Inter-related levels: (i) the
meeting of overal policy objetives In the social sectors; and (ii) the fulfilment of project specific
objectives.
1.9    At the policy   the Review evaluates progress made against the contents of the HRDP
Policy Matrix, including targes fo intrasectoral budget allocations which reflect the priorities
contined elsewhere in the Matrix. To date, the Government remains committed to reaching its stated
objectives and overall, the Bank and Govermment are in agreement about the broad direction of social
policy (e.g. prioriizaton of primary health and basic education activities and the introduction of cost
sharing). Progress has been achieved on most components of the HRDP Policy Matrix. Of notable
achievement are: (i) the complete phasing out of genea  food subsidies, combined with an expansion
of targeted nutrition programs; (ii) proposals submitted to the Cabinet for revising the fee structure of
hospitals, drugs, and selected services based on beneficiary ability to pay; and (iii) rationalization of
public health facilities.
1.10   Despite the Govenment's intention to adopt stated policy reforms, the ministries involved in
the HRDP have little or no in-house capacity to undertake additional studies to evaluate the impact of
policy decisions or to provide flexibility in responding to these policy issues as they evolve. Over
time, the policy issues facing the HRDP have become increasingly sophisticated. For example, the
extensive coverage of its social services means that the agenda has shifted from the analytically
simpler problems of building schools and clinics to the more complex issues of how to improve their
quality and efficiency in an extremely tight fisc  situation. Addressing importat policy issues (e.g.
cost recovery, improved targeting to protect vulnerable groups, private sector provision of services,
and decentralization) would benefit from quantitative assements of the costs and benefits of different
options. Jamaica possesses two rich data bases that could guide such policy decisions. The Survey of
living Conditions (SLC) provides information on households' health, education, mntrition, housing
and consumptiot Ministries in the social sector have point-of-service statistics from their
management information systems collated through the Institution Based Monitoring System (IBMS).
Unforuely, recouse to these data bases to answer specific policy quesdons has been limited.
1.11  In evaluating implme o of individual social sector projects-largely contained in the
Govenmen's capital budget-it is apparent that overall implementation has been hampered in large
part because the necessary funds have not been made available on a timely fashion through quarterly
budget releases from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to implementig mministies. So, despite the
success of the HRDP in mobilizing additional extenual resources for rebuilding the social sectors,
aca exenditures using these resources have been constrained using budgetary mechanisms in order
to meet stabilization fiscal targets without making appropriate reallocations to Govenme's stated
priority areas, including investments in the social sectors.
Irfthe HRDP Seaetarit is supo   through &. Burs Sooia Sectr Develomt project As part of this Proj
cononaly, Ihe GOJ is requied to hold an Annua Rmiew of Xh HRDP.



-4 -
11.  REEDU,J=       .SECTOl
A. Oveyew
2.1 Jamaica has placed great emphasis on education evidenced by average net enrollment rates of
98% at the primary level and 82% at the lower secondary level (Grades 7-9). Female participation
rates are among the highest in the world. Education in Jamaica is free and compulsory up to age 11
and is provided largely through a public education system. Privae institutions figure only marginally
(e.g. around 4% of primary enrollment, and 6% of secondary). In 1987/88, the education system
served over 500,000 students between the ages of 6 and 17 in over 1,500 instutions islandwide.
Male and female enrollments are about equal (Annex 1, Table 1).
2.2   The pr_ar educaionQysgm boasts almost universal coveage, with a net enrollment rate of
about 98% for children in the 6-12 age group. Drop-out rates are relatively low, primarfly becuse
Jamaica practces a system of automatic promotion to higher grades without reference to achievement
or ability. Universal coverage and low drop-out rates, however, mask the quality of schooling
provided to the majority of primary students, which is widely peceived as poor. According to the
National Assessment Program's Grade 6 Achievement tests in the late 1980s, over 40% of sixth grade
studems were found to be functionally illiterate, i.e., unable to read with comprehension at the fourth
grade level. Notable differences in achievement exist across schools (with urban school children
generally excelling over rursa) as well as by gender (with girls typicaly scoring higher than boys).
The Government, along with donors (notably the United States Agency for International Development
and the Inter American Development Bank), are begining to address the poor quality of primary
education by adopting comprehensive reform measures.
2.3    "ad-q E          . Jamaica also has been ighly successful in providing access to
secondary education in general tms, with net enrollme  rates high relative to other middle income
countries. in 1987, the net erollment rate for lower secondary (Grades 7-9) was nearly 83% and for
upper secondary (Grades 10-11) net enrollment was 63%. However, high coverage levels do not
necearily translate into equity of access to a similar form or quality of schooling. Under the
existing system, there are six paralle types of lower secondary school progms, each of which vanes
significantly by the ability of students recruited, expenditr per pupil, and quality of programs
offered. These are: Traditional High Schools, Comprehensive High Schools, Technical High Schools,
New Secondaty Schools, AU-Age Schools and Vocational/Agriculturd Schools. Over 40% of
students in the Grade 7-9 age group atend All-Age schools which receive the lowest quality inputs
and the lowest per student expendtres (Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3).
2.4  ITep o          . MmThe tertary education system in Jamaica is chactized by diversity
with institutions raging from comm ity colleges, teachers' colleges, the College of Arts, Science
and Technology (CASI), to the University of the West Indies (UWI). Approximately 20,000 student
are enrolled in terary institutions, with the largest proportion in community colleges (about 40%
percent), followed by UWI (25%) and CAST (20%). Quality and efficiency are also of conceen at
this level of the education system. The failure rate is high in some institutions and programs,
evidenced by ilCesing enrollments with failing oututs. For example, in 1988 the Exonomic and
Soil Survey of Jamaica reported that 50% of teacher suden  i their final year failed. It is
believed that a major contributory factor is the quality of education received at the secondary level,



-5 -
which then requr  remedial istucio at the tray level. This highlights the issues of efficiency
and cost-eftctiveness which  tede  the entire education system.
2.5   SourcaInd Mm       1in Eucationd ln . The MOEC has not escwaped the Jamaican
Government's fiaial constraints, the severity of which has increased sharply in recent years.
Budgetary cuts have boee undetaken at the exes  of inputs needed to improve the quality of the
system (.e., instructional marials, teacher traing, school supervision, sbe  evaluation, and
policy analysis) and to maintain or expand exising infastructure. hI view of the declining resource
base, the MOEC has made, and will continue to make, changes in its cumrt policies in order to
incese efficiency and atain its objectives within those limits.
2.6   Jmaica has had a long tradition of substanti support for the educational system as evidenced
by high enollment rates. Although as a share of non-debt public expenditures, education rose from
19% in 1981 to 22% in 1991, when debt service is included, education    nditures actually fell from
15% to 12% over the same period-the result of high debt service and fAl auterity measures. As a
share of GDP, education spending also fell from about 7% in 1981 to a low of around 4% in 1985,
and has since recovered only to about 5% at present. Overall, education rpresents about 4% of the
capital budget and about 18% of the centra Governent's recurrent budget.
2.7   In red terms, recurrent          have declined sharply, by 23% over the past decade
(Annex 1, Table 4). The shrinking budget has had its greatest impact on non-salay recurrent
epditur  such as instctional and resource materis, mantenance, and quality trnig programs.
With threequarters of the recrrent budget alocated towards salaries, there are few iputs beyond
thers available. The average annual grant per pupil for non-salary reurrent expendtu
decreased from J$140 to J$52 (in 1987 constant prices) between 1987/88 and 1991192. This
translates into less than US$2.00 per studeat for funding quality inpts.
2.8    W-ithin the MOECs rernt budget, priority has been given to increasing the share devoted
to pry education, consistt with the HRDP policy commitment of strengthening basic education.
In 1991/92, primary educaton accounted for 38% of the budget, up from 35.1% in 1981/82. Per
pupil recurf expendiues at the prmary levd rose by 31% from J$258 (m 1981 constant dollars)
in 1981/82 to J$375 in 1990/91 (Annex 1, Table 5). Increased support to primary level education,
however, has taken place by reallocations from secondary and tertiy levels. Of the remaining share
in the 1991/92 recurret budget, 33.3% was devoted to secondary education. On a per capita basis,
ependiturs for secondary eduaton decreased by 21% from J$810 per pupil in 1981/82 to J$642 in
1990/91. At the Tetary level-which accounted for 22.4% of the budget in 1991/92-expenditures
have also declined significantly. Per capita spending decresed from J$4,316 in 1983/84 to J$2,753
in 1989/90.
2.9   The share of the education budget devoted to capital expendit   has steadily inceased in
recent years, directdy as a res  of the HRDP, the majority of which financed wit foreign loans and
grants. Most of these capital ouas have been programmed for refurbishing and expanding primary
and pre-schools, for consuctin of regional offices to assist in decentralization, and for a variety of
activiies included under the Social and Economic Support Ptogram (SESP). Although these
investment projects are conwned in Budget documenat,implementation has been severely hampeed
becase of te lack of funds through quartrly budget releases to line ministries from the Ministry of
Finance, even for foreign grant.



-6-
2.10   ncreed government finaning of education in the future winl have to depend on economic
growti as well as the ability to mobilize complemenay resources from stxuets, parents, community
groups and the private sector. The major nn-goverenta source of finacing in Jamaica is from
studen and their families. Currently, the Government supports a policy of cost recovery for
textbooks through an established renal scheme for secondary schools, excluding All-Age schools. A
study completed by the MOEC  estfmated family e itures by type of secondary school (Annex
1, Table 6). Although fees are not dcaged direy for tuition in governn  schools, fay
expenditures include outlays for education-related items, particularly texbooks, writg materis,
transp ion, uniforms and mealsv. The burden of these costs has had an effect on ateance for
All-Age schools, and to a lesser extent, for other seondy schools. It is widely acknowledged that
one reason for poor atendance at All-Age schools is that some days parents cannot affrd to provide
lunch or tansportation money. The average annual family expenditure of J$1,589 in All-Age schools
is almost one-quart of per capita GDP, which is undoubtedly quite difficult for many families
paicularly those at lower income levels to afford, and when many have more than oue child in
school. Family expenditmes also vary by type of school with outlays for tradiional high schools
about double those for All-Age schools. The is also formal cost recovery for tuition fees at the
tertiary level. The Cess, which was initiated in 1986, requires studets attending UWI and CAST to
contribute to the cost of their education. Tbe Cess fees, which are detrmined by the University
Council, are generally low, although the Council is currany reviewing proposals to increase the fee
structure.
2.11   Other initiatives have included raising fds ffom the private sector including contribudons
from businesses churches, alumni organizations, and fund-raising activities. In recent years, several
employers have agreed to sponor programs and schools. Some 120 shools have currenty been
"adopted" by diffeent companies since the scheme was begun in 1989.
D. Selected Ism e in  duio
2.12 Jamaica's high education coverage masks a number of shortcomings, which become
paticularly evident at the lower secondary level, altough they have their roots at the prmay level.
The main issues are the decline n quality and due iequity In dhe provsion of resources and edation
opportniies across geographic and socioeconomic groups. Inadequate funding of educationad
expdur  provides a backdrop for eWplaning poor quaity and to some extent, inequity. An
addiional issue is the inabiit of the GOJIMOEC to employ edwaion data on school quaity and
studet acievement to evauate and mnitor the impact of on-going or proposed policy changes on
schools and students.
ZIMOBC, -Unk Cols Study, J_aay 1990.
f Por expl, in sondlhl8y 50w06 excbdng Af-Aip, dne is a cost recovay wem for txbooks. Fsmies pay
fihe    1$60 to IS120 per book per did per whoo yewt.



-7-
Ouality of Education.
2.13 Poor quality is reflected in low student achievement, with high levels of fimctionally illiterate
students-over 40%-entering secondary school, indicating deficiencies at the prmy level (Annex 2).
Poor instuctional qaity is also evident by the very low performance on terminal exams at the
secondary level. The MOEC esmat that about half of those students who finish the nine-year basic
education cycle in the most-disadvantaged AlU-Age schools fail to acquire fundmental literacy and
numeracy. Even among the more privileged students sitting the Caribbean Examinations Council
(CXC) exam which detemnes entrance to post-secondary courses, pass rates for both English and
mathematics were lower in 1989 in Jamaica than in Barbados or Trinidad and Tobago.
2.14   The situation can be attributed to interated deficiencies in the following areas: (a)
curriculum; (b) teacher and school adminisuator taing; (c) complementary instructional materials
(i.e. texbooks); (d) educational support materials and teaching equipment; and, (e) school
2.15   Curricum reform recently undaken has addressed primary Grades 1-6, while the
curriculum for grades 7-9 remains both inequitable and inefficient. The curriculum varies by type of
school and is a major contributing factor to the unevenness of secondary educadon provision. Those
children attending AU-Age schools through Grade 9, and for whom basic education is likely to be
terminal, receive essendally a repeat of the primary curriculum from primary-trained teachers with
virtually no instructional materias for secondary level teaching. In terms of efficiency, the overall
approach of the curriculum is based largely on rote learning by drill ("chalk and talk") and by a
didactic style with teachers dispensing information and students taking notes.
2.16   Moreover, the  ina    am= distorts the teaching of the revised curriculum at the
primary level because instead, classroom instruction-and parenta rources for private tutoring-is
concentaed on the contn of the higbly competitive Common Entrance Exam (CEE-l  +), which is
taken by students in Grades 4-6, depending on their age. At present, the CEE-1 + exam is the
selection mehanism to allocate limited spaces in Grade 7 of the prestigious high schools which, in
trn, gives students greatly increased prospect for academic succe8s and futre income-earning
potential.
2.17 Concerns about tewhers especially at the secondary level, are both quantitative and
qualitative. Date. related to teacher supply in compaison to student enrollment shows that it is the
All-Age schools that are at yet another disadvantage. Teacher-sdent ratios for All-Age schools are
1:40, whereas fter all others at the secondary level the ratio is in the order of 1:20. Teacher
qualifications al o vary by type of school. Forty percent of all high school teachers are university
graduates compared to 8 percent in the new secondary schools and only 2 percent in the All-Age
schools (Annex 1, Table 7). Although the percentap of teachers' college graduates in the system has
increased considerably, especia1ly in the New Secondary and All-Age schools, the majority have bee
traned for the primary level, so  at they lack the content and methodology appropriate for the
secondary level. Finally, the lack of on-going in-service training for secondary school teachers means
that the teaching force is not exposed to modern advanes in subject content and teaching
mediodology.



- 8 -
2.18  Inadequate provision of xtboo  cobutes to the poor quality of learning. Donor support
(Annex 3) has contributed to the provision of textbooks for primary level stdens that are based on
the new primary criculum. At the secondary leved, a GOJ/ODA project has provided, on a rental
basis, ttbooks writ  for student reading at the so-called Normaive and Enrichment levels.
However, thbis scheme does not include Gades 7-9 in the All-Age schools, who must therefore rely
on a repeat of materials provided for primary level students. Moreover, the textbook rentl scheme
bas encountered difficulties in that a sigAificant number of stents do not rent the books, either
becuse parents camot afford the rental fees or beuse studenus are unable to read the books.
Although the proportion of student in each cay is not klown, the MOEC has estmated that
approximately 60% of Grade 7-9 students in All-Age and New Secondary schools read at two or more
grades below their present grade level. A survey in 1989 of Grade 7, 8, and 9 students revealed that
42%, 39% and 36%, respectively, would not be able to make fall use of these textbooks becase of
deficiencies in literacy and nmeacy.
2.19   Additional educatiol m a nials a   Itea   e q  are also inadequate. There are no
laboratories or equipment in All-Age schools to facilitate the teaching of science. Even in the high
schools, the lack of funds for    _   means that many laboratories and pieces of equipment are
non-funtoad. Other teaching aides, such as maps, posters and consunable materials, have also not
been available given the size of non-wage recurrent budgets at the school level.
2.20   kb3WW  fails have also suffered from lack of   _     . Although the traditional high
schools have a greater capacity to solicit funds for maiten  of infrastructure and funiture from
Parent Teacher Associaions (PTA) or communities, the All-Age schools are usually old and
dilapidated with open classrooms separated only by chalkbods. Rooms for different age groups (i.e.
those in Grades 7-9) or specialized classes are lacking in the All-Age schools. In many schools,
furiture is designed only for use at the primary level, with secondary-age students sharing seating in
groups of three or on low benches.
h=f    i nl M
2.21   As evident from the descition above, Jamaican education at the seondary level is
charaeized las a highly stratified and inequitable system. This is reflected by large disprites in
teacher qualifications, faciities, insuctional quality, learning materias, insttional support, and
resource allocation. It translaes into limited educational achievement and life-time employment
oportunities for a large share of Jamaican children  For example, the All-Age schools comprise
about 40% of junior seondary enrollment, serve the poore soco-economic levels of studens, yet
receive the lowest levels of resource allocation and educational inputs. About half of those who finish
Grade 9 in All-Age schools are fconally illiterate. Yet, over half of students leave school and
enter the labor force at the end of GCade 9. To date, the lower secondary cycle has failed to fulfll its
cridcal role in establishing the basis for lifelong liteacy, mnueacy and other employment-related
skils.
2.22   At the other end of the specum, al     70% of children age 11-13 sit the CEE-11+, only
20% of these are awarded free places in the relatively well-resourced traditional high schools. These
bigh schools prepare sudents to take the prestigious academicay-oriented regional and internationd
examinations (e.g. CXC and 0-levels) that ultimately provide the way into post-secondary education
and oflEr good prospects for employment oppmuit.



-9 -
InsufficiMe   and Alloation of Endi
2.23   Mhe lack of sufficient resources is an importait contrbuting factor to the poor quality of
Jamaican education, as shown by low percentage of non-wage recurrent budgets available for quality
inputs and maintnance. Furthermore, the allocaton of what litde resources the sector does command
lies at the heart of the inequi of the education system; the uneqW  distribution of resources by tpe
of school is striking (see Table 1). Children who attend All-Age schools are clearly not only those
who receive least from the public sector, but also come from the poorest segment of society whose
parent can least afford to contribute financially (Annex 1, Table 8). In fact, almost half (45%) of
the children from the poorest populaion quintile altend All-Age schools, while an almost equal
proportion (47%) of the richest quintile attend traditional high schools. Table 1 shows MOEC grants
per pupil that are provided to schools to cover the non-wage recurrent costs, including utlities,
mantnance and other quality hiputs such as textbooks, resource matris, libraries, teaching
equipment. In real terms, resources available have fallen by as much as two-thirds since 1987/88.
The table also illustrates the inequality of resource allocation by diffe  types of schools; for
example, in 1991/92, students in traditional high-schools received seven times that of pupils in Grades
7-9 in All-Age schools and over twice the amount provided to New Secondary schools.
Table 1
Graita Per Pupil in Gades 7-9, by Type of School
",____________  (nm constnt 1987 Jamaican dollm)
1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   1991/92
AIl-Agpe"        30       28       24       20       11
New Secondauy    100      92       79       67       37
Comnprehensive   167      153     131      112       62
Traditional HIgh    200   183      157     133       74
Technical High   312      286     246      208       115
Source: MOEC, Staibstc UniL
a. Equvalet to per up g8rarns to prnmy shool studbn.
Inability of the GQI/MOEC to Evaluate and Monitor the Impact of Policy CQan=es
2.24 Given the tigh fiscal situation in Jamaica, any improvement in the  quality and equity of
education ill need to be done in a cost-effective manner. Currendy, the MOEC lad the ability to
evaluate and monitor the impact of any such policy chge. The complexity and multiplicity of the
Jamaican examination system, for example, fails to provide key information for measuring the
"output" of the educational system and how it chnges over time. In addition, the MOEC lacks a
fully integrated evaluation systm which would give feedback to policy makers on the impact of
different levels of inputs. Combined, the eamiation and evaluation systems should provide present
teachers, students, parent and policy makers with the information they need to improve the quality of
education and to efficiently allocate scarce sectoral resources. The ability of the MOEC to analyze
such information, however, is weak. Management information systems have not been utilized to their
fullest, paricularly in the areas of education planning and development. Although the donor



- 10-
community has recenty provided additional computers and training in their use, many machines
remain either unopened, not fitted with appropriate software or not adequately maintained.
C. The Govermeat's Strategy
2.25  Within a setting of tight fiscal constraints, the Govenment's overall strategy in the social
secors is to improve efficiency, while at the same time, improving the quality of social services. In
addition, the Govemment is wcusing expenditures on social services with the highest social rate of
reurn and those which benefit most those who can least afford to pay. In the education sector,
evidence worldwide suggests that a basic education covering Grades 1-9 and emphasizing core
subjects, is the most cost-effective way to provide both the labor market and the higher education
system with trainable manpower. In spport of this strategy, te Govenment has stated the policy
goal of targeting resources to ensure equal opponvyjfor aU children to receive a qual4y basic
education in Grades 1-9.
2.26 Jamaica has already begun to address the quality of education at the primary level (Grades 1-
6), namely the revision of the curricuta and the related provision of complementy inputs. Major
donor support (USAID and IDB) has already been mobilized in support of these efforts. The
Government now intends to improve quality and equity at levels Grades 7-9, which is inherenty more
complicated becuse it involves the replacement of the existing system-characterized by six types of
schools each with different entry requireme, curricula, per pupil expenditure, terminal assessment
and social prestige-with a Junior High School program that provides a common curriculum giving
equal educational opportunity for all students.
2.27  The undertaking of reform at the lower secondary levels is timely becuse it involves critical
backward and forward linkages that complement ongoing efforts at the primary, upper secondary and
tertiary levels. The refrm of Grades 7-9 is a natural extnsion of reforming the primary level,
ensuring that, together, they provide a quality basic education in Grades 1-9. Moreover, the
rationalization of the exam system-particularly the postponement of selectig students for academic
streams from Grade 6 unil Grade 9-is critical for the success of the new primary curriculum.
Rationalizing lower secondary education will also have importat consequences for upper secondary
(Grades 10-12) and tertary levels. Demand for upper secondary education is expected to increase
primarily because of the perceage of students who will be eligible to advance based on their
improved ability to meet exam critia. The MOEC is exploring options of how to respond to the
inevitable increase in this demand. Evaluating options will need to take into account the budgetary
implications, as well as ensuring the appropriate mix of academic and vocational training depending
on needs of the labor market.
2.28 In a Cabinet decision of May 20, 1991, a major reform of secondary education (or ROSE)
was officy adopted. It will involve the introduction of a common curriculum with complemenary
inputs of teacber and principal trning, textbooks and other educational mateials, furniture,
equipment and selected refurbishment of facilities.
2.29  Under assistance from the World Bank Fourth Education Loan (Ln 2899-JM), a feasibility
study explored various options of introducing a common curriculum. Ihe Goverment has selected a
gradual method whereby over a period of fifeen years, the curriculum would be introduced into



- 11 -
selected schools in three Phases. In the first five year phase, the Govenment hopes to reach
approximately one-third of the totl entollment in Grades 7-9 with the new curricula. The 72 schools
to be included in the first five years of the reform will be selected from Al-Age and New Secondary
schools which traditionally have served the poorest chfldren with the least resourcs. Provision of
currictulm guides, textboks and related ftining would be standard across schools officially selected
under the project. Other inputs, such as physical refurbihment, will vary depending on the state of
existing structres. Schools not formally selected for the first phase of the reform will be able to
participate voluntrily (up to a maxmum of 10 each year) and receive a package of teacher and
curriculum guides and teacher traminig.
2.30 The Fourth Education Project also supported the development of the new common
curriculum. The introduction of this curriculum, along with related inputs, was piloted in four All-
Age Schools. Based on this expeience, it was determined that the phased introduction of the
cufriculum would take place by grade into schools selected, i.e. in the first year, Grade 7 would be
introduced in the first year cohort of schools. In the second year, Grade 8 would be introduced into
the first yea cohort and so on. This would give both teachers and students the opportnity to build
on previous year's experienc.
D. DsnorS= mo
2.31 Donor activity in the education sector is mainly concentrated in the area of primary education
with support for the government's efforts to improve the quality of Grades 1-6 (Annex 3). With two
successive projects each from the IDB and USAID, reform at the primary level has included: the
establishment of the National Assessment Program (NAP) for Grades 1-6; review and revision of the
primary currclum; upgrading and training of primary school teachers; library services; and physical
inrsructure improvets.
2.32 Donor interventions at the secondary level have been mostly small-scale and although none
have comprehensively addressed the GOJ's reform of secondary educaion, several projects have
included important elemets that would support the reform effort. These include a school mapping
erxcise, and a tracer study of secondary school grads which provides useful data and information
on the links between educational background and job opportunities.
2.33   Substidal resources have also been directed toward teriary education. A ten-year
development plan (1990-2000) prepaed by UWI and supported by several donors is aimed at overall
improvement and strngt        of the universt system. The project includes: infrastructure,
equipmen and institonal development componens specifically related to the improvement andJor
eqansion of teaching and research, and a regional component to strengthen outreach services to non-
campus countries and off-campus students.
2.34 Other donor support in the education sector is aimed at improving the management
capabilities of the MOEC. Activit' . supported include the development of an information system on
the physical status of educational instutions, as well as the production of an intument for school
assessment and the establishment of a comprehensive and computerized Educational Management
Inlrmation System (EMIS).



- 12-
E. Past Bank Exgerience and Less=ns Learned
2.35  Since 1966, the Bank has supported four education project in Jamaica totaling US$38
million. A Social Sectors Development Project (US$30 million), and a Financial and Program
Manage     Improvement Project (US$15.6 million) also contain a component supporting the
MOEC. The first three education projects were implemented from the late 1960s to the late 1980s
and covered primary, secondary and vocational/tecical sub-sectors (Annex 4).
2.36  The ongoing Fourth Education Project, Eduation Program Preparation and Student Lan
Project (Loan 2899-JM in 1988 for US$8.3 million) is the basis for the GOJ's Reform of Secondary
Education Program. In particular, the MOEC developed a common curriculum in five core subjects
for Grades 7-9 as well as training and evaluation structures for the new curriculum. Under the
project, the new common curriculum has been piloted in four new Junior High Schools in St Thomas
Parish. Overall, this project has achieved its objectives. Although the project period has been
extended by one year to December 31, 1994, this was due to delays in implementing the civil works
components; the other components of the project, notably the development of the new curriculum and
the suegy for introducing the reform islandwide, have been carried out in a timely fashion.
2.37        1i. Based on a review of audit and supervision reports, the main lessons
emerging from past projects on project design have been the need to: (a) allow for adequate plannig
and advanced preparation, especially for projects requiring policy decisions; (b) pay greater attention
to insttional arrangemes for project implemeon, especially if the project is broad-based in
scoe; (c) ensure flexibility in both project design and implemention arrangemens should a loan
need to be adapted to changing ci    ; and (d) ensure adequate provision of finances. These
lessons are taken into account in the design of the proposed project. Substantil advance planning and
preparation has been carried out under the Fourth Education Project and with a Japanese Grant
Faciity. The Reform Management Team approach addresses isses raised with respect to (b) and (c).
Finally, MOP officials have been kept informed duing project preparation and several conditions for
negotiaions and loan effctiveness will require that adequate budgetay releases for this proposed
project and the three other social sector projects funded by the Bank are assured for 1Y 1993/94. In
addition, a Country Tmlemai-don Review is scheduled for March 1993 to address implemention
issues that are common to Bank-supported projects, inluding the availability of funds from the MOF
to imple     ministies throuhout the fiscal year. Lasdy, the Bank will continue to monitor the
release of resources to the social sectors (both retrospectively and projected) through the HRDP
Annual Review, simultaneously with the Anmual Review provided under the proposed project.
F. Rationak for Banvlvmt
2.38 The Bank has taken a lead role in assisting the GOJ to formulate and implement an economic
adjustme  and recovery program complemented by a coherent social sector strategy. The Bank's
cowwy assac sratey is based on agreed policies as expressed in the governent's Medium-
Term Policy Framework (uly 1992) and the associated Public Sector Investment Program for 1992-
95. he strey   reflects an inftgrated approach to tacling Jamaica's main economic, social and
environmental problems. On the economic front, adjustment lending emphasizes prvate sector
development and the growdt of employment and incomes through the completion of reforms in the
aeas of trade, privatization and deelation. Investme  lending, including the proposed project,



-13 -
complemes this approach through the contned support of: (a) the developmen of human rours
and (b) the removal of infatructure const.
2.39  Within the soci sectors, the ank's cntral role in assisg the G0  to formulate, execute
and monitor the HRDP bas been a catalyst for lamaica in developing an integrated approach to socii
sector development and poverty alleviation, whibe generating coordinated donor support for their
efforts. The prposed education project buids upon the Bk's substantia involement in the sector
and supports one of the central priorities of the MOEC's Zve Year Plan and the HRDP: improving
fte efficiency and quality of basic education, with a particular focus on schools serving the poorest
students. Other major donors are already ckling the issues of efficiency and quality at the primary
level. In a mutually reinforcing manner, this project will address these same issues at the last dtee
grades of the basic education cycle, namely Grades 7-9. The project also draws on the
recommendations and analysis of the Bank's regional study Access, QuaUty and Efcfenwy in
Cadbean Edwaton. Finally, the ongoing Fourth Educatin Project was specifically desiged to
assist the MOEC in building the conceptual and analytcal framework for the reform of lower
secondary education and to pilot the introduction of a common acricuum (mcluding related training
and evaluation activities) which forms the core of the reform program.
m. TE PR03ECr
A. ftC29    ect}eandc
3.1   The project aims to improve: (i) the quaity and equity of basic education, specifically Grades
7-9; and more genrally, (ii) the quality and cost effectveness of public provision of social services.
The key objectives of the project are to:
fi) introduce a major reform of the junior secondary education system (i.e. Grades 7-9) with
a focus on the pooest groups withn these grades;
(ii) stregihen the MOEC's capachy to manage and evaluate the impact of such a reform; and,
(ii) suengthen the PIOJ's capaity to carry out relevant and tmely social policy analysis.
B. kwo
3.2         ng  lpoRd        (82.4% of tota project cosnt, including continncies) would
provide for: (a) the introduction of a common curriculum; (b) pre-service and in-service taining of
teachers and school    ors; (c) the provision of textbooks; (d) the provision of minimum
educational support materials; (e) mprovemnts in, and limited new constucton of, physical
infrastructe, including furniture; and (f) studies and pilot programs for upper secondary education.
3.3   &xal1imn and  gm _Soe                (8.7% of total project costs, including
contingenies) would support: (a) the raization of the exam system; 0) the establishment of a
Refbrm Management Team; (c) the excaution of a public awareness campaign; (d) the evaluation of



- 14-
the impact of the new curriculum on educational achievement; and (e) the preparation of Phase II of
the Reform.
3.4 Social Policy Analyis and NUment (8.9% of total project costs, including contingencies)
would finance: (a) the establishment of a Social Policy Anaysis Unit in the PIOJ; (b) strengthening
key line ministries in swia policy analysis; (c) trainng, fellowships and the establishment of a Data
Bank for the University of the West Indies (UWI) in areas of social policy analysis; and (d) the
Survey of Living Conditions (SLC).
C. PoectCQMDoM=
Cmponent 1: Secondary Reform Support
3.5   This component supports the implementation of the first 5-year phase of a 15-year reform
program to improve the quality, efficiency and equity of education in Grades 7-9. It would finance
the necessr educational inputs and support services for the junior seonday reform program, and
the Government's formulation of straegies to address the icreased demand for services at the upper
secondary level.
3.6   To meet the equity objective of the project, aI 72 schools formally selected to receive project
inputs will be All-Age and New Secondary schools. Based on the Survey of Living Conditions, these
two types of secondary schools serve 79% of the poorest quintile of students, 45% and 34%
respectively (Annex 1, Table 8). Although all schools with Grades 7-9 will eventually have the new
crriculum intoduced by the end of the Reform period, the selection of the 72 schools for the first 5
year phase of the reform will be based on clearly defined crieria (Amnex 5, Table 1). The first
year's schools are shown in Annex 5, Table 2. Prior to negodations. the Government confirmed it
had identified the selected schools for year 1 of the project (para. 6.1 ((a)). In addition, duding
negotiations the Government azreed to submit to the Bank not later hn Sember 15 of each year
the specific schools to be selected for the following academic year. based on specific criteria (para.
6.2 (a)).
3.7   Other types of seconday schools (e.g. better off traditional high schools) will be encouraged
to voluntaily opt into the reform program-up to a maxinum of 10 each year-and will receive basic
inputs with limited marginal cost to the project involved. Voluntary schools will receive curriculum
and teacher guides and teacher training, but will have to purchase other inputs such as textbooks. By
the final year of the project, a cohort of approxiaty 28,000 sxdents will be receiving the new
curriculum in Grades 7-9 (Annbx 5, Table 3), which combined with a significant number of students
from the voluntary schools, would mean that about one-third of students would be receiving the new
curriculum in the first of three five-year phases.
3.8   More specifically, ftis sub-component would include:
(a) C==ocurcuu
3.9   A new common curriculum for Grades 7-9 (including ma,tematis, science, social studies,
language arts, resource and technology, and career education) has been developed and piloted under a



- 1S-
previous World Bank project. The curriculum is learner-cenered and combines a basic skills focus
with problem solving activities. The proposed project would support the introduction and continuous
assessment of tbis cufclum in 72 All-Age and New Secondary schools, rhis sub-component
encompasses the following activities: (i) production of 10,500 teachers' guides and manuals to
facilitate the teaching of the new curriculum; (ii) publication and production of 1,000 Junior High
School Handbooks for school administrators; (Mii) 2 man-months of overseas training in methods of
continuous daily assessment of students; (iv) 52 man-months of local consultants to develop
continuous daily assessment; (v) 3 man-months of local consultants in curriculum research to support
possible revision in the curriculum during implementation; and (vi) 62 man-months of local
consuitants to develop remaining additional subject areas. The proposed project would also support
the incremental positions for 85 teachers and 30 guidance coumsellors.
(b) Pm-service and in-service training of teachers and s-hool administaors
3.10 To assure effective incorporation of the common curriculum in the schools, extensive in-
service training of teachers, school administrtrs and regional education officers will be undertaken
during the project. The Joint Board of Teachers' Education (IBTE), a tripartite organization
representing the MOEC, the Teachers' Training Colleges and the UWI, will be responsible for the in-
service training of approximately 6800 teachers in 72 project schools and 50 voluntary schools using a
combination of training strategies including summer workshops, school visits and distance education.
The MOEC will be responsible for executing other reform-related training/orientation activities
including: (i) 60 regionad education officers; (ii) 550 school administrators; (iii) 2200 school board
members; (iv) 380 teacher trainers at tertiary institutions (e.g. Teacher Training Colleges, UWI,
CAST, CTC); and (v) 2500 final year students in the teachers colleges. Incrmental staff salary for a
Senior Education Officer responsible for coordinating training will be supported.
() Production an distribution of instuctional materials
3.11 Although the common curriculum is the major vehicle for achieving equity, it is also clear
that cuntly students arrive at Grade 7 with widely different levels of mastery of the primary school
curriculum. Four groups have been identified based on differences in reading proficiency; (i)
Fow,don I or reading at least 5 grades below grade-level; (ii) Fowudad  2 or reading at least 2
grades below grade-level; (iii) Nomatve or reading at grade-level or 1 grade below; and (iv)
Eharchmen or reading at or above grade level. Therefore, while the curriculum content will be the
same, instcional mateials (i.e. textbooks) will need to be multi-level, based on students' abilities.
3.12   The proposed project would support the: (i) procurment and distribution of about 162,000
textbooks for all reading levels in Grades 7-9 for 28,000 students in the 72 project schools (since the
textooks will be used by four successive cohorts of students, some 112,000 student will be
reached); (ii) procurement and distribution of 71,000 Foundation 1 and 2 level textbooks for students
in schools not formally included in Phase I of the Reform at a ratio of 2 students per book; (iii)
prowcurem   and ditribution of 40,000 reading books (High Interest Reading and Language Arts
Program or HIRLAP) to the All-Age schools outside the project; and (iv) administrative costs to
extd the textbook rental scheme to All-Age schools (Annex 6).
3.13   More specifically, the project will provide Foundation 1 and Foundation 2 textbooks to
17,000 stdents in All-Age and New Secondary schools participating in the project at a ratio of one



- 16 -
textbook per student. The content of Foundation 1 and 2 muterials is being developed under the
ODA-supported Secondary School Textbook Project. For the 11,000 Normative and Enrichment level
students, the MOEC will invite bids from the publishing industry to provide suitable books for the
new curriculum by developing or modifying existing textbooks in five subject areas (Math, Language
Arts, Social Studies, Science, and Resource & Technology). These textbooks will also be provided at
a ratio of one book per student. While waiting for these to be developed and published, All-Age
schools selected for the project will receive a set of existing textbooks. Reading books (HIRLAP)
will also be provided to approximately 16,000 students at a ratio of 1 book for 4 students.
3.14 All textbocks will be of durable quality (unlike those currently provided at the primary level)
and will be expected to serve four successive cohorts of students, implying a replacement rate of
every four years. The approximate cost per textbook to the MOEC for Foundation 1 and 2 level is
US$ 2.20, for Normative and Enrichment levels, US$ 8.25 and for HIRLAP US$ 1.50.
3.15 The sustainability of the provision of textbooks will be enhanced by the introduction of cost
recovery into the All-Age schools which at present are not covered by the existing textbook renal
scheme. The proposed project will support the administrative costs of extending the rental scheme to
All-Age schools. Given, however, that the project is targeting the poorest students many of whom
attend All-Age schools, a mechanism will also be developed as part of the textbook rental policy for
identifying and supporting those students who canot afford to pay. Under the ODA project, an
impact study planned for early 1993 will, inter alia, analyze why students under the existing rental
scheme do not rent books, either because they cannot afford the fees or that the books provided were
too advanced for their reading t_vels. Because this project provides for more appropriate textbooks
for students of lower reading ability levels, the ODA study will be used by the MOEC to design a
comprehensive book rental/cost recovery scheme for all secondary schools with Grades 7-9, including
an effective mechanism to identify and support those unable to pay the fees. Two additional field
officers will be supported by the project to visit All-Age schools participating in the project, as will a
Senior Education Officer in the Educational Media Unit which is responsible for the scheme. Local
technical assistance will be provided to modify computer programs to include All-Age schools and to
input school data onto the computer. Documentation explaining the rental scheme will be provided
for new schools and a short training course will be conducted for one school principal and one
textbook rental adminisra  per project All-Age school. During ngiatos th
agreed to adopt a policy by August 15. 1993 regarding a comnrhenslve textbook rental scheme
including a mechanism to identify and suppotthose unable to Day (para. 6.2 (b)).
(d) Provision of educational sp    materals
3.16  In addition to textbooks, provision of educational support materias and teaching equipment to
support the new curiculum is an essential aspect of improving educational quality in grades 7-9.
Experience in many countries, including Jamaica, has demonstrated that educational support materials
and equipment have not always been integrated effectively with the instructional program, leading to
their non-use by teachers and consequent wastage. This sub-component is designed to avoid
procuring equipment and maeials which schools do not need or cannot use. Specificlly, it will: (a)
provide materias and equipment to project schools that meet each school's particular need
configuration; (b) link the provision of educational support materials with the implementation of the
new curriculum, through the in-service and pre-service training activities for teachers and school
administraors; (c) ensure that each project school has a basic minimm of istructional support



- 17-
materials and that these are available in a timely manner; and (d) develop capacity at the school site
level to identify educational instructional support matenals and equirment that support the new
curriculum.
3.17 The MOEC's Curriculum Unit has identified a basic set of minimum materials and equipment
to support the core subject areas. Schools participating in the project will be eligible to receive all
materials in the basic m_inim packages that they do not already have. To ensure a fit between
school needs and the package of resource materias it will receive, a four-step implemention plan
has been developed: (a) each school participating in the project will complete an instructional
maias inventory, in which differences between the schools existing equipment and supplies and the
Core Cutriculum's basic minimum for each subject area and school are identified; (b) a review of the
school's needs will take place during the School Administators' Workshop and school-specific lists of
items to be procured will be prepared; (c) the MOEC will collate the equipment and materials
requests (orders) from the participating schools and procure; and, (d) suppliers and/or distributors will
provide equipment and materials directly to schools on a timely basis, with penalties for delays.
('e Infrastructure imov     for schools adotina the common curriculum
3.18  CiwiLwo. The project would support: (i) the construction of three new Junior High
Schools (i.e. those which would draw students in Grades 7-9 from surrounding feeder All-Age
schools); (ii) refurbishing and, if necessary, the extesion of one laboratory and one workshop for
teaching Resource and Technology subjects for 27 All-Age schools; (iii) refurbishing of 10 New
Secondary schools; and (iv) refurbishing for 20 small rural All-Age schools. The project would also
support on a declining basis the incremental costs of maintaining schools receiving civil works. The
civil works are introduced over the life of the project and their timely completion is essential since
programming for the other sub-components is based on the availability of buildings for occupancy
(Annex 5, Table 4). Since accelerated design is important to get the first year's civil works underway
as soon as the project becomes effective, plor to negiao   rtgyical archiectral designs and
dr  standard bidding documents for Junior High Schools were sent to the Bank for review (para.
6.1(b)). In addition, during negotiations the MOEC outlined the steps required for acquiring property
on which to build the three new schools, indicating that it would take an average of 6 to 9 months.
Since the first of the new schools is scheduled to begin construction in year 2, site acquisition
procedures should begin early in the first year of the project.
3.19 Given the weakness of the MOEC's civil works management capacity in past projects and the
proposed scope of civil works in this project, the project would support the recenty upgraded position
of Technical Services Director who would be responsible for ensunng adequate civil works
supervision across the Ministry as a whole. In addition, the project would fund the incremental
salaries of a Building Coordinator and two Building Officers to support the specific civil works targets
of the reform program and would report to the Director of Technical Services. Design and site
management will be contracted to three architectr design/management firms (see also paragraph
4.28 on Implementation).
3.20  Emnibge. Since the new curriclum utdizes both large group discussions and individual
student project work, frniture will need to be modular and easily moved. Furniture protpes were
developed and tested to ensure that their designs met curriculum needs. The project would support



- 18 -
the procurwmnt of desk/chairs for stdents sad teachers, blackboards and easels, laboratory furitue
for the 50 All-Age schools selected.
(B Strat     for ummer seconday
3.21   The Goverment of Jamaica recognizes that improving the quality of a lower secondary
education and extending access to it for all children in Grades 7-9 will have implications for upper
secondary and tertiary levels. Becase more students will be eligible to advance beyond Grade 9, it is
important for the MOEC at an early stage to plan how to accomodate them. By the fourth year of the
project, the first cohort to benefit from the secondary reform program will be ready to advance
beyond Grade 9.
3.22 The project, therefore, will support 8 man-months of technical assistance to examine the
cuaent status and future development of Jamaican upper secondary education. The recommendaions
of the study will need to take into account the budgetary implications as well as the needs of the labor
market for both academally and vocationally trained professionals. Ihe project will also set aside
$1.2 million to support a umuber of pilot projects to test the efficacy of initiatives recommended in
the study.
Com==en 2: Evaluation and Mrement Strenghening
3.23  The objective of this component is to improve the capacity of the MOEC to monitor the
progress of and plan for increasing the quality of basic education, especially for Grades 7-9, through:
(A) Ratonaizing the examinaton systm
3.24 The overall objectives of this sub-component are to: (i) develop an exam which incorporates
the curriclar changes proposed in ROSE and which will provide policy makers with data to monitor
the refbrm; (Ci) increase the efficiency of the examination system by reducing test redundancy at the
secondary level; and, (Mii) improve overall test quaity.
3.25  In support of these objectives, the proposed project will support the development and
adminiron of a new Grade 9 exam (Junior High School Certificate or JHSC). This exam should
reflect the contents and learning processes incorporated in the new Grade 7-9 curriculum. Since the
new Grade 9 exam will function as a selection mechasm for placement at the upper secondary level
or for entry into the labor force, it must be developed to satisfy both placement and certification
purpoes. The development of the new Grade 9 test will be contracted out based on detailed terms of
refrence that have been prepared with support from the Japanese Grant Facility. The administration
of the test will be done by the MOEC's Student Assessment Unit. Inialy, the numbers of students
tesed would be small, but eventually include all Ninth Grade studentsimat  at about 50,000.
3.26  Cumrny, the MOEC administers four secondary-level testing programs that offer 59
different subject tests. Thirteen of these subject tests are "low volume" tests, taken by fewer than 400
students (less than 2% of total candidates); another 28 subject tests are redundant with technical and
vocational ceication tests being developed by the Human Employment and Resource Trainig
(HEARD) Trust. The MOEC has already taken decisions to eliminate the low volume subject test



- 19-
and to reassign responsibility for the thical and vocational subject tests to HEART by 1995 (Annex
7). The MOEC has also decided to consolidate the existing Grade 9 Achievement Test and two
subjects (English and mathematics) of the Jamaica School Certificate (JSC) with the new Junior High
School Certificate examination. The project will support the position of an Assistant Chief Education
Officer in the Student Assessment Unit who will be responsible for: coordinating the elimination of
and reassignment of responsibility for these tests; working with the public awareness campaign to
assure that the changes in the examination system are understood and known by the general public;
and serving as the liaison between the test development agency and the Student Assessment Unit.
Prior to negotiations. the Government submitted a detailed plan for the rationalization of the
examination sysUm. satisfactory to the Bank. for implemenation during 1993-98 (para. 6.1 (c)).
3.27 Resources saved from reducing the number of subject tests offered by the MOEC will be
reallocated to improving the quality of the remaining tests. By eliminating low volume tests and
reassigning responsibility for technical-vocational tests to HEARTINTA, the MOEC will save
approximatly US$50,000 annually. Ihese resources will be used to improve the MOEC test
development process with respect to the 6 remaning JSC subject tests and the 6 .emaining SSC
subjects.
3.28  Finally, the project will support limited computrization of the Student Assessment Unit with
hardware and software that is compatible with the Administrative Reform Program (ARP) system.
Because some staff training is to be provided through the proposed ARP training program for the
MOEC, only limited additional training would be provided by the project. investment costs for
automation (estimated at less than US$50,000 for hardware, software and necessary plant
improvements) would be recovered in less than four years, replacing data processing done by outside
contractors for US$13,500 annually.
(bl Establishing a Secondary Reform Magen Team
3.29 The proposed reform of secondary education will require the involvement of the all MOEC
departments, some more integrally than others, if it is to succeed. For this reason, a radical
departure from a classical project implementation unit (PIU) is required to manage the implementation
of such a broad reform program. Instead of a PIU, a Reform Management Team wiUl be established
to plan, coordinate and direct the reform of secondary education, and will be infused wiWin (and not
duplicate) the recenty reorganized functional departments of the MOEC (Annex 8). The Reform
Management Team will be chaired by the Permanent Seretay and comppnse six other members
including a National Coordinator (who will be the Deputy Chair) and the Directors of Educational
Services; Planning and Development; Projects; Technical Services; and Finance. The Team will be
collectively responsible for all decisions relating to the reform, as well as for the implementation and
evaluation of the program. An advantage of a Management Team approach embedded within the
Ministry is that, unlike most PIUs which are dissolved once the project has ended, the experience
gained by MOEC technicians during the implemion of the reform will be retained within the
Ministry. This is critical, given that the proposed project supports only the first 5 years of a 15-year
reform.
3.30 The proposed project would finance the salaries of the National Coordinator and the Reform
Mamagement Team Secretiat comprised of: an administrator; a public relations' officer; an
administative assistant; 3 secretaries; a driver; and an office attendant. In addition, the project would



-20 -
finance funue and inremeal ruing costs of the Scretariat. In order for key members of the
Reform Management Team to obseve firsthand the experiences of other countries undergoing a
similar reform of secondary education, the project will support 5 man-months of study tours. Prior
neotalon. the Government put In place the new reoga d MM  sr ;  ealished the
Reform Manemen Team and appointed a Natio   Cordi r with qualifications and experience
s# yto the j xnpara. 6.1(d)). A condition of loan ffvess wll be to complete the
anpointment of the Reform Magwee Team Secretriat's professional staff, all with skills and
exper.cnce satisfacory to the Bank. and fill   percent of the newly created establishment posts in the
MOEC which will be supported by the project (para. 6.3 (a)).
3.31 Finally, to assist the MOEC and the Reform Management Team to effectively plan and
monitor the reform program, a funcioning Education Mangement Information System (EMIS) is
critical. Although major assistance to strengthen the MOEC's EMIS is forthcoming from other
donors, several vita activiies have not been funded. The proposed project will support: salaries for
the Chief Information Officer, and an Office Technology Coordinator; maintenan  for MOEC
computers; and the purchase of 30 ancillary worksion units for the Reform Management Team4'.
Prior to negotation, the-Govemnment urovide a detailed anaysi of the MOEC compute and ofc
etofting needs to be financed under ROSE (para. 6.1 (e)).
(c) Public Awarn   Campaign
3.32 Given the widespread impact of the reform on parents, students, educators, employers and the
genera public, a public awareness campaign will be inrduced to present its objectives, phasing and
benefits. Already, substant  discussion and debate has taken place on the reform. The Minister of
Education outlined the reform strategy to Cabinet members during a Cabinet retreat in the fall of
1992. A nationwide address by the Minister opening the 1992 school year higlighted the MOEC's
plans for improving the quality of education, particularly at the lower secondary level. A forum on
the Reform of Secondary Education for key members of the education community was held in June
1992 and separate discussions have been initiated with the JBTE and the Jamaica Teachers'
Association (JTA).
3.33  A public awareness campaign staegy has been developed, including activities phased during
the life of the project on both the national and local level. The stregy is based on building support
for the reform at the commuity level through public meetings, and by dispersing accurate
information about the nature, scope and tmig of the reform. The National Coordinator will oversee
public awareness activities which will be carried out by a project-financed Public Relations consultant
and a Public Relaons Officer to be located in the MOEC's Maagement Team Secretariat.
3.34  The campaign will begin fmmally wih a national launch in September 1993 using all media
forms and a public forum. An ongoing program of news releases and photos, discussions on radio
and television, press briengs and the distribution of fact sheets (Annex 9) and a bi-annual newsletter
will be carried out to maintn the level of public hiterest and awareness at the national level. At the
4 Tbe M omld Ba-haned P&mci1 wad PmVand Maagemem Ahprovem.a Plrea is providing a mainfamm and
worktaioo  rhe MOBC. Auny wodatt  oould be puhasd for dIi mainam at one4* &e cost of a new
_       fdob  omue.



- 21 -
local level, community meetings will take place for school boards and Parent-Teacher Associations in
each community where a school is to adopt the new curriculum by September of the year preceding
its introduction.
(d) J&SE Evaluion
3.35 The ultimate indicators for the success of the reform program (i.e. improved achievement
scores, student matriculation rates into upper secondary grades, surg meaningful work, etc.)
cannot be readiiy detected in the early years of the reform because it will take three years for the first
cohort to complete Grade 9. In the meantime, however, key indicators or pre-requisites known to be
associated with the above outcomes need to be identified and objectively measured to provide program
developers and decision-makers with interim data to determi  which inputs are associated with the
greatest increases in student learning and changes in teacher behavior. In turn, this can form the
basis for any needed modifications and guide future planning for subsequent phases. Evaluation
requires baseline inventories (a standardized checklist) to be conducted at both project and comparison
schools, as well as pre-tests and post-tests for students, and structred observations to measure
instructional and learning environment changes (Annex 10).
3.36   Under the proposed project, evaluation (consisting of a baseline data inventory and pre- and
post-tests) will be conducted at all 72 project sites, 10 pilot sites, 3 voluntary sites and 19 comparison
sites. In addition, in-depth evaluation (consisting of structured observations, surveys, and interviews)
will be conducted at a sample of 16 project sites, 4 pilot sites, 3 voluntary sites, and 19 matched
comparison sites. The project will support: 1 person-month of local technical assistance to develop
content and format of the baseline data inventory; 1 person-month of local technical assistance to
revise and develop interim pre- and post-ests; 5 person-months of technical assistance to develop the
observation instument and protocols and related surveys instruments, assist in dat analyses, and
failitate the overall evaluation; transportation, commication and duplicating costs to conduct the
evaluation. Prior to negotiations, te Government confirmed it had identified five matched
comparison sites and received their consent to naripate (pam, 6.1(f)).
3.37 The proposed project would also support the position of an Evaluator in the MOEC's
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit who would be responsible for ensuring coordination of the
evaluation exercise with other inter-related activities of the reform, e.g, curriculum introduction,
training, and educational support materials. Strengtening the institutional capacity of the MOEC will
also be supported by the project through four local fellowships in program evaluation at UWI
(planned for 1994/95). If the program is not available at UWI as currently planned, the MOEC may
alternatvely invite foreign experts in evaluation to present special courses for MOEC staff. In
addition, the project will fund short study tours (about 2 weeks) of 2-3 persons, including at least one
evaluation staff and one Refbrm Management Team member, during the first and third project yeas
to visit evaluation department of large U.S. city or small state education departments. To furher
develop the professionaiization of the evaluation staff, the project would also support sending an
evaluation staff member to one professional conference on evaluation per year (e.g., the American
Evaluation Association).



- 22 -
(e) Support for prearaion of Phase II of ROSE
3.38   The proposed project covers the fist 5 years of what is estimated to be a 15-year Reform
program. In the second phase, the new curriculum along with accompanying inputs (e.g. training,
textbooks and other educational support materials) would be provided to the remaining schools with
students in Grades 7-9. This sub-component will support preparatory activities in years 4 and 5 of
this project for Phase II of the Reform, which inter alla, will include reviewing and incorporating any
necessary lessons that might emerge from the evaluation component (.e. the effectiveness of
combined inputs in improving the quality of secondary education and ultimately, student
achievement).
C=omonent 3: Social Policy Analysis Support
3.39 The project would support a series of measures designed to improve the capacity of the
Government to undertake sophisticated social policy analysis and intgrate the findings to formulate
more effective and targeted social sector programs (Annex 11).
( Establishent of a Social Policy Analyis Unit
3.40 A Social Policy Analysis Unit will be established in the PIOJ's HRDP Secretariat. The Unit
will be responsible for identifying needs for policy analysis in conjunction with sectoral ministries and
the UWI. In addition, the Unit would perform simple policy analysis in-house and contract out other
research activities and provide training to the line ministris in formulating and carrying out policy
analysis. The Unit will dseminate the findings of the research to enhance policy formulation and
guide policy decisions. The proposed project will support: inremental salaries for the Director, 3
Socio-economic analysts and a Programmer, plus 3 secretarial staff; 3 months of technical assistance;
production cost for reports and studies to be diseminated; equipment (1 computer/printer, 1 fax, 1
copier); and operation and maintnance costs. The project will also support a pipeline (US$50,000 for
the first year of the project; US$100,000 for years 2-5) of research on HRDP topics to answer
quesions on the policy agenda as daermined by the Social Policy Analysis Unit and the key line
ministries in the social sectors (MOEC, MOH, MLWS). Prior to negotiations. the Govemment
confirmed it had estabjished a Social Policy Analysis Unit in the PIOJ and appointed its Director with
ifications and experience satisfactorv to the Bank (para. 6. 1(g). A condition of Board
presentaion will be to complete the appointm   of at least thre-fifths of the Social Policy Analysis
Unit's professional staff, all with skills and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
(X) Link%age with Line Miistries
3.41 Key line ministries in the social sector (MOEC, MOH, MLWS) will participate in the
network of research activities coordinated by the Social Policy Analysis Unit. In addition to taking
part in setting the policy agenda, the ministries will receive in-service traning in research
methodology and social policy analysis for raearch staff in the respective research units of the
ministies. Seminars will be provided for policy-makers to enhance their capacity to frame policy
questions and integrate results of reseach into their decision making. The project will provide: 3
man-monfts of technical assistance to conduct the seminars for policy makers; 6 months of local
technical assistance for in-service training of researchers; and, 24 months of technical assistance for



-23 -
the Minstry of Labour, Wetfare and Sport (MLWS) and 2 computers to upgrade its capacity for
policy analysis.
(c ,Supor to US
3.42  The project will provide: two years of technical assistance to upgrade faculty in advanced
quantitative methods for social policy analysis and to upgrade the curriculum offered by UWI; 8
months of local consultants to conduct faculty upgrading; and graduate fellowships (15 for masters
level study and S doctoral level) in research methodology and social policy analysis. The project will
support the development of a databank at the Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER)
including the acquisition and mantenance of a network of 4 personal computers, appropriate statistical
software and one data processor position. Prior to negotiations. the GOJ confirmed it had determined
the scope and finlized cost shaing arrangements with the UWI for the ISER Data Bank (para.
6.1(h)).
() Sunort for Svey of Living Conditions
3.43 The Survey of Living Conditions (SLC) is a survey that collects annual data on health,
education, nutrition and welfire of households (based on the Living Standard Measurement Surveys).
The project will provide support to STATIN to implement the Survey of Living Conditions by
establishing a small unit (1 programmer, 2 statisticians, 1 assistant) dedicated to the SLC which will
alleviate past problems of data quality and timeliness. The project will also provide: 2 years of
technical assistance in areas of survey methodology and data processing; 2 months of local
consultancy for computer related assistance; 4 months of overseas study for the statistician; equipment
(4 personal computers, 2 printers); and, the incremental costs of the survey field work. As a
condition of disbursement for the Surey of Living Conditions subcomnonent (to be included in the
Netherlands Grant Agmn) STATIN will have instuted a plan to implement the
recommendations forlhcomin from theata qualit rew  saticry to the Bank for the
mprovelment of data alt (par. 6.4).
IV. P IECIE CO;STS, EMMUM:NG MANAGENMEN  AND IPEETTO
A. Project Costs and EbFinnn
4.1   Projc costs. The total cost of the project, including physical and price contingencies, is
esdmated at JA$936.9 million or US$40.7 million equivalent, including taes of US$.02 million on
equipment. Base costs are calculated at US$32.7 million equivalent, and contngencies at US$8.0
million equivalent. Investment costs amount to 87% and incremental recurrent costs amount to 13%
of base costs. The foreign exchnge component would be US$12 million equivalent, or 29.5% of
total project costs. The breakdown of costs by project component is shown in Table 4.1. Detailed
cost tables are presented in Annex 12, Tables 14.
4.2   Basis of Cst Estmates. Project costs are estimated at October 1992 prices. Estimated
construction costs for the project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and cost
analyses for similar standards of construction in c sing facilities. Estimated rehabilitation
costs are based on act  estimates done on a sample basis throughout the country. Costs of



-24 -
equpment, frnlture, and materials  e based on agreed lists of Itms and on the CIF prices of similar
items pocred in the contry by the MOEC. Costs of triing, local and itemaiond coultants,
and other servies reflect local or i tonal rates, as applicable. Cost estima  for textbooks are
based on cent costs and costing stadards used by the MOEC.
4.3   Cggdq=W AIIQwag=e      . Physical t      (averag   4.6% of base cot) are
esmated at 10% for civl works, and at 5% for tranig, frre and equpment. Price
contingene (averaging about 20% of base cos) were estmated on the basis of exected anual
iernational price inaes of 3.7% a year for the life of the project; and local price incrs  of
15% for 1993, and 10% for 1994 and 5% per ye  threaf. Total contingendes represent 24.5%
of base costs.
Table 4.1: Proet Cost S=Mn
% Foign % Total
Ed:                  ,   ,P   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~roo  E ,Cs
-I*u In ifth
Smi  Raftmn           Q                u.  ;L
Common Curriulum          1.4     0.4      1.8    20.0      5.5
ROSE Training             4.8     0.1      4.9      0.1    14.8
EducatlonSupport MatWs   0.4      1.7      2.1    79.1      6.4
Textbooks                 0.3     0.8      1.1    74.1      3.5
Infrastructure            9.9     5.9    15.8    37.3    48.3
Upper SecS Sua            1.1     0.0      1.1      0.0     3.4
Evuadon and )&n_t              la    Q    L22            W
Exam RationalIzaton       0.3     0.5      0.8    66.9      2.4
ROSE Inm                  0.8     0.2      1.0    25.4      3.1
Public Campaig            0.2     0.0      0.2      0.0     0.7
ROSE Evaluation           0.4     0.1      0.5    27.4       1.6
ROSE Phase U Prep         0.3     0.0      0.3      0.0     0.9
Polkalyalnd-MUaM=              21        2                        22
Policy Analyis Unit       1.4     0.2      1.6    13.1      4.8
LineMnistryLinkag         0.1     0.1      0.2    46.2      2.2
UWI                       0.3     0.4      0.7    57.8      0.4
SLC                       0.3     0.2      0.5    40.4      1.8
Total Baseine Costs           22.1    10.6    32.7    32.5   100.0
Physicai Conng                 0.9     0.6      1.5    41.4      4.6
Pdoe C on                      5 7     Q.              12 1     129
Total NoJect Costs            28.7    12.0    40.7      29.    124.5
a/ Toat sNoy not dd d. tJo ra_sdw.



-25 -
4.4   Foreign Exch CQM            Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs are esdmated at
about JA$287 mllion (US$12 milion equivalet), inluding cotngencies. Based on a detailed
analysis of expenditures of similar projects in Jamaica, the foreign exchange component for the major
categories was estmated as follows: civil works 40%, equipment 85%, vehicles 90%, foreign
consultants 100%, overseas training 100%, operation and mantenance of equipment, buildings and
vehicles 20%, production of reports 20%, and office supplies 20%.
4.5 Financing Plan. Total project costs are estimated at US$40.7 million (Table 4.2). A Bank
loan of US$32.0 million would finance 79% of total project costs excluding taxes, which would cover
US$31.5 million equivalent of investment costs and US$0.5 million equivalent of incremental
recurrent costs to be financed on a declining basis during the life of the project, reaching 0% of the
costs by the fourth year of project implementation. To meet a part of the total estimated project
costs, the Government of the Netherlands will co-finance the Socal Policy Analysis Component with
a grant of 5 million Guilders (approximately US$2.7 million equivalent), with recurrent costs of
US$0.9 million to be financed on a declining basis. The GOJ would finance US$6.0 million
equivalent or about 15% of total projdct costs, including US$4.1 million in reurrent costs. &
condkitin of loan effectiveness, the Government will sign an Agrement with-fth Bank as
Administator for a grant from the Government of the Netherlands for cofiancing the proposed
prDije (para. 6.3 (b)).
4.6   The proposed loan of US$32.0 million, together with the Governent of the Netherlands
grant of US$2.7 million equivalent, would finance 85% of total project costs or 100% of foreign
exhange expenditures and 82% of local expenditures. The relatively high share of Bank support is
deemed necessary given: (a) the substanti deterioration of Jamaica's capacity to mobilize domestic
resources, given the stabilization program and high debt servicing requirment; and (b) the project's
emphasis on serving the educational needs of the poorest segments of the population. Although this
high share of non-government financing reduces the burden of the GOJ to generate local couterpart
fiuds, difficulties in securing the timely release of external resources through the Government's
budget and warrat release mecasms for other Bank-financed projects in the social sectors have
proved to be major obstales to project implemtion. Therefore, duri gW&dad= the
Government nrovided written  aatee that the proposed project as well as the three existing World
Bank socWa sectors nrojectsY would be given pdoriq in budgetar and warrant allocations for
1224 (para. 6.2(c) and Annex 13). During the implmion of the proposed project, evidence
should also be submitted to the Bank that adequate budget provision and quarterly warrant allocations
be forthcoming for each fiscal year. Specifically, this would take place each fisal year in three
stages. First, duin n    os     Governme  aieed to  ent to the Bank during the HRDP
Annual Review (or in any cas not later than Mach 31st of each year). the draft budget submission
for the forthcoming year of the project (para. 6.2(d)). Second, dud  neeotations theG
agreed to allocate in its annu budg  to be proposed to Parliament the funds. in an amount
satisfactory to the Bank. necessar to implement the project in each fiscal yea (para. 6.2(e)). Third,
the Govenment agreed during negotiations that the qterly releases of coupart financing and
external resources. saaory to the Bank. would be released to implementing agencies on a timely
basis fi.e. notification of quartly wamrs be provided within two weeks of the start of any urt)
fI SocalSe    Ddopmmrot (Lo   . 3111-JM), Se Popul ad Heoalt Ptojo L. 2851-JM), and *e Edo
Prgm Prepari ad Studet Lan Prec (a 2899-M).



-26-
(para 6.2(f)). Should funds not be forthcoming from the Ministry of Finance, the Bank would resere
the right to adjust the work program accordingly. Finally, as a condition of loan effectiveness, the
Governmt will submit the 1993/94 budggg figures. as aggroved by Parliament. for the proposed
project and the eastIn W social sectors Bank-uported projecs satisfacoy to the Bank. which reflect
line ministies' submission of realistic Wlenaion schedules # (para. 6.3 (c)).
4.7   Incremental Recurrent Costs. Total incremental recufrent costs generated over the p,oject's
life are estimated at US$5.4 million. During the imple ion period, the project would add an
average of about US$1.0 million per yea (mcluding contingencies) in recu t expenditures,
growing from US$ 0.5 million in 1993 to US$ 1.5 million in 1998 (see Table 4.3). These
incremental costs would be generated mainly by salaries (85 new teachers, 30 guidance counsellors,
and staff of the Reform Management Team Secretariat, the Survey of Living Condition, Social Policy
Analysis Unit, and the ISER Databank), office and school supplies, computer and building
maintenance.
Table 4.2    et Fia         by Proect Comonent
(US$ million)
Total Estimated
C.M    Netherlands Gok    t
1. Common Curriculum          2.3                  1.4   0.9
2. ROSE Training              6.3                  6.3   0.1
3. Educational Support Materials  2.4              2.4
4. Textbooks                   1.3                 1.2   0.1
5. Infrastructure             19.8                 16.4  3.4
6. Upper Secondary Strategy    1.4                 1.4
7. Exam Rationalization       0.9                  0.6   0.3
8. ROSE Mnagement              1.3                 1.2   0.1
9. Public Awareness Campaign    0.3                 0.2  0.1
10. ROSE Evaluation            0.7                 0.5  0.1
11. ROSE Phase I Preparation   0.4                 0.4
12. Policy Analysis Unit       2.0       1.5             0.5
13. Line Ministry Linkage     0.1        0.1
14. UWI                       0.8        0.6             0.2
15. Survey of Living Conditions   0.7    0.5             0.2
TOTAL                      40.7        2.7      32.0  6.0
(share of total costs)   (100%)      (6%)    (79%) (15%)
4.8   The financing of the project has been designed to keep the recrent cost share of the
Government to a minimum in the early years of the project, rsing from 50% in the first year to
_I Notw Ia Los 3111 and 28S1 hamr receny been rmlated at the Govmnentos reque to relect raLsHtic wic
program schedules and inipleentato capaciy in order to improve projec impandm .



- 27 -
100% in the fourth year. By the final year of the project, Components 1 and 2 of the project would
require pproximaely US$1.1 million of recurremn expenditures or 1.7% of the MOEC's recurrent
budget oth in 1992 prices). The replenishment of textbooks would represent a major recurrent
expe  for the MOEC, however, the Government intends to extend the current cost recovery scheme
for textbook rental in secondary shwols to the All-Age schools covered under the project. Durin
negiationWs, the Goverment ageed th*a it would adopt A policy by bAust 15, 1993 regarding a
oomprehensive textook rental scheme. including a mchanism to identify and support those unable to
py, (para. 6.2 (b)). For the Social Policy Analysis component, much of the recurrent cost will be
borne by the UWI and the Statistical Institute (STATIN). During negotiations, th Government
provided assunm ctt the UWI under the Social Policy Analysis comonet would assume its share
of £me m@nt ar[rncosts IP(para. 6.2(g) and Annex 13).
Table 4.3: Annual Recurent Costs under the Project
( US millions)
I939    lu9/9          U9259    1996/97    19-97/98
Total         0.5       0.9       1.2       1.3       1.5
GOJ share     0.1       0.4       0.8       1.2      1.5
B. 
4.9    Qvl Wor  under the project will involve the constuction of 3 new Junior High Schools, the
refrbishing and ensmion of 27 All-Age schools, the refurbishing of 10 New Secondary schools, and
th refurbishing of 20 small All-Age scools. With the exception of the three new schools (for which
the base construction cost varies from US$0.8 million to US$1.1 million), the average cost for
Indvidua scool upgrading varies from US$50,000 to US$400,000 equivalent. Therefore,
consucion conacts valued less than US$500,000 and not to exceed an aggregate of US$11.0
million would be awarded according to local competitive bidding (LCB) pronedures acceptable to the
Bank and open for competition from foreigp bidders. Construction contracts over US$500,000 will
be awarded accordng to international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, and subject to the Bank's
approval. The two schools scheduled to be built in 1995/96 should be packaged together in order to
atact freign bidders. To overcome MOEC's present weaess in managing procurement activities,
a procurement officer, a building coordinator and two building officers will be hired under the
projec.  Wrior to negoions, the Govem   submtted draft bidding documents for ivil works
UdcAd    in tohe Bank (para. 6.1 (b)).
4.10  lidtbb. For txtbooks where the MOEC owns the copyrit for the material (i.e.
Foundation 1 and 2 and HIRLAP), procurement will consist of printing and binding and will be
awarded under limited international bidding procedures that would be acceptable to the Bank (e.g. a
one-stp procedure of inviting bids to print books according to technical specifications, with a
specified due date).
4.11   For NormativetEnrihment textbooks, publishers will be invited to either modify existing
tetbooks or develop new tets based on the new curricula. Prior to negotiations. the GOJ
determned that there will be more than one title Uer sube per grade that will be designated for the
ecommended texook list (par. 6.1 ((i)?. The precise number of the recommended textbooks will



-28 -
be based on the outcome of a two-step sdection and procurement process according to limited
international competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.12  In the first stage, publishers will be invited to submit materials in the form of either a
publshing proposal (i.e. a desription of the future book, incuding synopsis and sample chapters,
sample pages to show the page design and style of illustrations, team of authors, timetable for
development and cost), or manuscrpts (with a few sample pages to show the proposed appearance of
the text), or eidsing books (with indications where revisions would be made, if necessary, to conform
to the new curriculum). Proposals would then be evauated against technical and pedagogical
specifications to determine their appropriateness for the new curriculum. For the second step, all
responsive bidders would be instructed to quote their prices for various quantity levels (e.g. less than
1,000; 1,000 to 1,999; 2,000 to 2,999 etc.), in order to allow finalizing supply contracts for the
quantites that would result from aggregating the teachers' reported preferc  among those
textbooks selected according to this evaluation method. Evaluation would then be done on the basis
of price. In order to provide maximum flexibility and compeion, the titles of textbooks of all
responsive bidders whose prices are withWl 10% of the lowes. responsive bidder would be selected.
Solicitation of teachers' choice of textbook would be done during training, with subsequent
agegation and ordering by the MOEC. The proposed project would also provide technical
assistance to the MOEC to design the bid documents and tender evaluation details and to help in the
evaluation of the first cycle of textbooks to be tendered (i.e. Grade 7 subjects).
4.13  Finally, packaging and distribution of all books to each project school will be contracted out
by local competitive bidding.
4.14  Eguipmnl and  fire for project schools would be grouped in packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more each and would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines. For purpose of bid evaluation under
ICB, manufacturers from CARICOM countries, including Guyana, may be granted a margin of
prefrence in accordance with Bank guidelines. The MOEC will compile and package equipment
requests made by project schools by May of each projedt year. Distribution of equipment for schools
will be contracted out locally. Computers grouped in packages estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 but more than US$20,000 would be procured following limited international bidding
procedures (UB) among m          who can provide local mntenace and technical assistance
services. Contracts for maerials (e.g. maps, posters and other educational supplies) would not be
appropriate for ICB, and therefore would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB), subject
to the Bank's approval. Packaging and distribution of materias procured through LCB that are
intended for project schools should be specified in the tender documents with contract penalties for
any delays. Purchase of small items of materials, equipment and futur to cost less than
US$20,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$250,000 during the life of the
project would be procured following local shopping procedues, through price quotations obtained
from at least three eligible suppliers. Consl'    required for the project would be hired
following the Bank's Guines for the Use of Consulans by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Excuting Agecy, dated August 1981. To help manage the supervision of civil
works, which will include 60 separate sites spread geographicaly, it is more effective (and therefore
expected) to use local consultants; the qualifications of the ftfree architectual management firms to be
employed under this project will be duly asessed by the Bank (paras. 3.19 and 4.27). For the



-29 -
able 4.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS miion equvalt)
TOTAL
Category of Eeditue             ICB  LCB    Odher NBF  COST
1. Works                        3.9  11.0                 14.9
(3.4)  (9.6)             (13.0)
2. Goods
Funiure                       1.8                        1.8
(1.8)                     (1.8)
Equdpment                     1.9           0.2b  0.?   2.3
(1-9)        (0.2)        (2.1)
v,hicles                                    0.02         0.02
(0.02)      (0.02)
Materials                            0.6    0.2          0.8
(0.6)  (0.2)       (0.8)
Textbooks                                   0.91 0.9
(0.9)       (0.9)
3. Technical Assistance                       6.7   0.9'  7.6
(6.7)       (6.7)
4. Studies, Pilot Prom                        1.9   0.6'  2.5
(1.9)       (1.9)
5. Tran, Worshops                             4.3   0.2   4.5
(4.3)       (4.3)
6. Opraton &  M                               2.2   0.?   2.4
(0.3)       (0.3)
7. crmentl  Staff                             2.0   0.3'  2.3
(0.2)       (0.2)
8. Supplies, SLC Field Costs                  0.4   0.3'  0.7
(0.05)      (0.05)
7.6  11.6   18.8   2.7  40.7
Total                          (7.1) (10.2) (14.8)       (32.0)
Not:   PIgmrs in pava..o. sn lw weqev amouIbo  Enmw d by dos Bk lo.
NBF: Not Bank-mlod.
a. Co4moed in paal by do Govenmm of doi Neaabnd; preowed an oufnniy wih Wodd Dank Cwd:
I__mnt ader 3WRD Les ad IDA C*A# (WaSaow, D.C., May 198S), and Gddf ajbr *e Use of
CoAmdto by World Beakd Iowus ad by As WId B* k , Eeaag   Aga_  (August 1981).
b. L^iied in _k  bidg (1*).



-30-
purposes of conducting in-service training, a sole source contract (for about US$4 million) wil be
awarded to the JBTE in its capacity as the agency responsible for overseeing teahers' education
(paras. 3.10 and 4.26). rhe position of a Procurement Officer will be supported by the project in the
MOEC's Technical Services Unit.
4.15 Procurement under the Social Policy Anadysis Component financed by the Government of the
Netherlands will follow Bank guidelines, but wfll be carried out by the Planning Instute of Jamaica.
Procurement consists mainly of technical assistance (consultants hired as indicated above), and
minimum equipment (for the Policy Analysis Unit, MLWS, STATIN and the ISER Data Bank),
which will be procured by local shopping with contracts awarded on the basis of three price
quotations.
4.16 Prior Review. Prior Bank review would be required before bids are invited and before a final
decision on contract award is made for the following procurement actions by the borrower: (a) for
contracts of civi1 works valued above US$200,000 equivalent or more; and (b) for contracts for
supply of goods valued at US$100,000 or more. This would amount to about 70% of the totl
estmated value of civil works, firniture, equipment and educational materis. Other contracts would
be subject to post review by the Bank after conuct award. The table 4.4 summarizes procurement
arrangements for the Bank loan.
C. Dbn
4.17  Disbursement Percenaes. The Bank loan would be disbursed for Components 1 and 2
against 100% (excluding taxes) of: furnibtre, equipment, vehicles, educational materials, textbooks,
local training and fellowships abroad, consultants fees and fixed-term salaries (i.e. ROSE National
Coordinator, the ROSE Sea t staff, 1 Building Coordinatr, 2 Building Officers, I Senior
Accountant, 1 Accountant, 1 Procument Officer, 1 Office Technology Coordinator and 1 Public
Relations Officer). For civil works, the Bank loan would be disbursed against 85% of expenditures.
Recurrent costs for consumables, traning materials and allowances, salaries of additional staff,
operation and mantenance would be financed on a declining basis yearly strting in 1993/94 at 50%
of incremental recurrent costs up to an aggregate of US$235,800; thereafter 40% of incremetal
recurrent costs up to an aggregate of US$783,800; and 20% of incremental recurrent costs thereafter
up to an aggregate of US$1,598,300 (Annex 12, Table 5).
4.18 Disbursement of the Netherlands grant for the Social Policy Analysis Component (US$2.7
million equivalent) would be at 1i0i% of equipmet, studies, local and foreign technical assistanee,
and training. Recrrent costs for consumable, inmental and coct staff, operation and
maintenance of the Policy Unit and the equipment, meetngs, production of reports, and the field costs
for carrying out the Survey of Living ,nditions, would be financed on a declining basis yearly
startng in 1993/94 at 100 percent up to an aggregate of US$ 288,200; thereafter 80% up to a total
disbursement aggregate of US$552,200; thereafter 50% up to a total disbursement aggregate of
US$732,200; thereafter 30% up to a total disbursement aggegate of US$842,200; and 0% thereafter.
4.19  fiNuired DownerAation. Disbursements for contracts for goods and services estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 and other disbursements against activities not undertaken by contrac, will
be made on the basis of Statment of Expenditures (SOB) certified by MOEC and PIOJ and
repreentatives authorized by the borrower. Dcumeion would be retained by MOEC and PIOJ,



- 31 -
and would be made available for Bank staff review and the auditors. All other dibursements would
be made against fully documened wiithdrawal applications. Retroactive financing for an amount to
cover US$3.0 million for consultas' services and incremental recmu t costs, incurred after March
1, 1993, is provided.
4.20  Didbu#sement Pro. The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a seven and a half
year period, based on the standard dibursement profile for education projects in the region. Based
on this profile, the project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000, and the Closing Date would
be December 31, 2000. A forecast of disbursements is shown in Annex 12, Table 6. Government
has expressed its inteion, however, to implement the project over a five year period which coincides
with Phase I of a three phase, fifteen year Reform Program.
D. Accountig and Auditin
4.21    Sei A        .courts Two Special Accounts would be opened in the Bank of Jamaica: (a) one
for the Secondary Reform Support and the Evaluation and Management Stegthening Components
managed by MOEC (and financed by poceeds from the World Bank loan), and O) the other for the
Social Policy Analysis managed by PIOJ ftrough the HRDP Secretariat (and financed by proceeds
from the Govemment of the Netherlands Grant). The initial deposit for (a) would be US$2.0 million
and, for (b) US$0.5 million, corresponding to about four monts of project expenditures.
4.22 The MOEC and the PIOJ would keep separate accounts for project expenditures incurred
under components (a) and (b) as in the above paragaph, in accordance with intnationally accepted
accounting procedures. The project will support positions for a Senior Accountant and an Accountant
in the MOEC's Financial Management and Intemal Audit Unit. During negoaons. the Government
aed to select indenendent auditors acenable to fte Bank. to audit proIect accouns, and provide
cmes of the audited smnsto th Bak wiin six months of the end of eh fsa ye  (para.
6.2 Jh)). The auditor's report would include an opinion and comments, as necessary, on the project
account and on methods employed in compiling the staements of endiure, their accuracy, the
relevance of supporting douments, their eligibility for financig in terms of the project's loan
agreement, and the standards of record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing.
E. ProjMc Mm      _m and bpIementatio
4.23  hjReadiness for pmtin. The proposed project was identified by Bank staff who
visited Jamaica in June 1991. It was prepared by the Govement, with the assistmce of a Japanese
Grant Facility and Bank staff missions in July and November 1991, and July 1992. The project was
appraised in October 1992; negotiations were held in Washington in February 1993.
4.24  Project O aQtion d and  agemeI As detailed in parn. 3.29, a Reform Management
Team will be established in the newly reorgamized MOEC to manage the overall implementation of
the reform (Component 1), as well as the rationalization of the exam system, the public awareness
campaign and the evaluation of the new curriculum (Component 2). The Social Policy Analysis Unit
will form part of the HRDP Secretat which is located in the Social Planning Division of the PIOJ
(see Annex 11 chart). The Director of the Social Planning Division will have overall responsibility
for implementation of the third component of the project. The Social Policy Analysis Unit will be
responsible for: implementing training programs in the sector ministries; administering technical



- 32 -
assistance provided to IJWI and the line ministries; disbursing fumds for research to be conducted
through UWI and for SLC activities; and, coordinting formal linkage mechisms leading to a
progrm of reseach in support of HRDP objectives.
4.25  imnlmen.tati anLemenl. The implementation of Components I and 2 will rest with the
Reform Management Team, instead of a PIU. Although the project would support approximately 21
people at headqts (i.e. excluding incremental teachers and guidance counsellors), the bulk of the
reform will be carried out by existing MOEC staff. Given the complexity and magnitude of the first
phase of ROSE, the MOEC's existing capacity to carry out all activities will face additional strains.
The project has provided extra staff at key managerial levels to help ensure that the work program is
coordinated. However, certin sub-components, which require either specialized technical skills or
substantial input in terms of manpower and which the MOEC does not posses, will be contracted out.
Items to be contracted out include: in-service and pre-service training; the collection of evaluation
data; the development of the Grade 9 exam; and, the day-to-day management of civil works
execution.
4.26  In-service      . Training activities under the project will be carried out under the overall
direction of the MOEC, however, the Joint Board of Teacher Education (BTE) will be contracted to
conduct the in-service as well as the pre-service training. The advantages of JBTE executing this sub-
com-ponent are several: Oi assures the involvement of the teachers' colleges and other tertiary
institutions; (ii) provides the possibility of linking the in-service training component to the teacher
cerification process thus giving a strong incentive for teachers to get involved in implementing the
new curriculum; (iii) reduces the numbers of activities for which the MOEC is directy responsible
for implementing as part of a complex overall reform. Prior to negotions,. the Government
confirmed it had sent the World Bank a finial con of the ubtrann bimlmentatin nane. includin
details regardinz the activities to be carried out by Joint Board of Teachers' Education MMBTE) (para.
6.110)). As a condition of loan effctiveness, the Government will confirm that the MOEC has signnd
an ageeme  with the JBTE for trainin activities which the JBTE will carry out (para. 6.3(d)).
4.27 Civil work. Instead of performing design and day-o-day management of civil works within
the MOEC, the proposed project would support the utilization of three extern  design/management
firms, with the work divided into geographically appropriate sections of the island. Their terms of
reference would include: the preparation of architectural and ngineeing designs; the preparation of
tender documents; the prequalification of contractors; the tendering and the preparation of tender
evaluations; the supervision of construction; and final completions of the upgrading and extension
componens. They would be responsible to the Building Coordinator to be supported by the project
Prior to noiaions. the Govement confirmed it had undertaken a preg alification exercise for the
selection of three civil works manatement firms (para. 6.1 (k)).
4.28  The MOEC's Arcitects Unit will continue to articulate and enforce the qualitative and the
quantitaive design standards for civil works on behalf of the Mimistry. Ihe proposed project will
support the position of Technical Services Director, a Building Coordinator and two Building
Officers. The Atchitect's Unit wiul review the ROSE school designs generated by the outside
consultants to ensure conformance to MOEC's standards. These reviews will take place at the end of
the Schematic Design, Definitive Design and Tender Document Preparation stages for each school.
The Building Coordinator will participate in all ROSE technical reviews and will keep the Technical



-33 -
Services Director informed of all developments. A complete set of tender documents for each project
tpe will be forwarded to the Bank for review and nonobjecdon prior to its release for tender.
4.29  M ring and valuation. Implementtion working papers have been prepared by the
MOEC and the PIOJ for all subcomponents (Annex 14). Included in ihese papers is a description of
the sub-component in terms of imple on activities, indicating both spedfic actions and physical
targets based on an agreed time-line. Each paper also contains a list  of selected performance
indicators and, whe relevant, terms of rfrence and lists of goods to be procured. Since the
success of the reform depends critically on the synchronizaion of various sub-components, a list of
monitorable indicators (Annex 15) together with a Project Timeline (Aimex 16) will provide an
effective monitoring istument Annex 17 shows an estimated Supervision Plan for the project.
4.30 Given the complexity of both the reform program and the policy analysis agenda, as well as
the innovative method of project management, a Mid-term Roview would provide the opportnity to
introduce flexibility dwhud the need arise. Dui  ngggations, the Govm t at ta the
MOEC and tho PIOJ would conduct, wiEh prior aproval of e terWm  of refrence by the Bank. a
Mid-term Imnlemntion Review. not later than March 31. 1996 (para. 6.2(i)). Annex 17 lists topics
for discussion durmg the Mid-term Review and at least one output indicator with targets for each
project objecdve, as agreed with the Government during negotiations.
4.31   The National Coordinator of the ROSE would also participate in the HRDP Anmud Review
which occus each February with the involvement of key donors to review progress in the social
sectors on both project implementation and policy. In addition, the MOEC would collaborate on a
monthly basis with the HRDP Secetarat and provide to the Bank a quarterly report on ongoing
actvies.  _uting ntAtins t  gvMn ard to cr  out aul reviews of _h pr ti
conntion with the HRDP  nnual Review exercise ut in any caso  late than March 31st),
including policy and nawcltars as contained in  e HRDP Policy Msatrix. (pea. 6.20)).
In addition, duing neotiations the Government also agreed tha not later thOn March 31. 1994. it
would submit to the Bank annual targets for the share of MOEC recurnt exndirs that would be
allocated for Grades 7-9 (para. 6.2(k)). A copy of the HRDP Policy Marix (Jue 1992) is included
in the Project File.
V. PROJECr BENEFI   AND RISKS
A. Bnefits
5.1   The proposed project would support the Goverment in achieving two central education
objectives: (a) to improve the quality, efficiency and equity of basic education for all Jamaicans,
specifically Grades 7-9; and (b) to strengthen the system's capacity to plan and monitor improvement
in the quality of education. The increase in educational expenditues for basic education will help
redress imbances in the allocation of public sector resources among diffeet levels of education, by
direcdng more resources to higher-yielding lower education levels. Improved relevance and quality
of basic education would ultimately provide better trained and trainable manpower for the economy.
Higher overall levels of achievement and increased resources targeted on the poorest groups of
students would enhance efficiency in the use of public sector resorces. A rationalized exam system
would: reduce the redundancy and cost of exams in the education system, and eventally postpone the
selection of students for academic sreams until Grade 9; provide studets leaving the education
system at Grade 9 with school leaving ceticates reflecting a recognized level of achievement for



- 34 -
potential employers; and provide a reliable measure of lerning output for policy analysis. Improved
social policy analysis through a relevant research agenda will help the Government to more effectiwly
target scae resources for social sector programs.
B. Ris
5.2   Principal project risks relate to: (a) budgetary constraints leading to scarcity of both
counotpart funds and the release of exna resources; (b) potent  backlash from those beneftng
from the existig elitist system; and, (c) weak implementation capacity, particularly regarding civil
works. With regard to (a), the Bank's financing of a high share (79%) of project costs as well as
planned cofiancing (6%) would reduce the need for counterpart funding, thus easing the GO's fiscal
burden. In addition, the Bank will monitor the maince of sector priorities in the contex of
Annual Reviews of progress towards social sector objectives as reflected in the proposed project and
the Human Resource Development Program (HRDP), also supported by the Bank. These priorities
have recently been reflected consisteny in other policy statements issued by the Government (the
Public Sector Iesment Program (PSIP), the Medium Term Policy Framework and the Letter of
Deeopment Poliy in  the proposed Private Sector Development Adjment Loan). In regard to (b),
the MOEC has already begun a phased public education campaign to be supported by the project
which will help to ensure that all of the relevant actors recognize that the benefits of the reform will
be to improve the quality of education for all types of secondary schools. Representatives from
grous potentialy in opposition to the reform have been brought into the development process early
in the reform planning stages. Finally, regarding (c), the MOEC has adopted an integrated
management approach to the reform rather than a stand-alone PIU which will provide flexibility in
managing and Implementng the reform program and ensure that the far-reaching aspects of the
project are infused in all areas of the Ministry. Components with substanti or specialized manpower
requirements, such as the day-to-day management of civil works execution, will be contracted out
under the overall supervision of the MOEC Team.
VI. AA
6.1 Prior to negotiations, the Government confirmed it had:
(a)   identfied the selected schools for year 1 of the project (para. 3.6);
(b)   submitted prototypical architecturl designs and draft bidding documents for civil
works satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.18 and 4.9);
(c)   submitted a detailed implementation plan for the period 1993-98 for the rationalization
of the examination system satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.26);
(d)   put in place the new reorganized MOEC strucure, established the Reform
Management Team and appointed a National Coordinator with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.30);
(e)   provided a detailed analysis of the MOEC computer and office rrofitng needs to be
financed under ROSE (para. 3.31);



- 35 -
(t)   identified five matched comparison sites and received their consent to participate in
the evaluation component (para. 3.36);
(g)   esalished a Social Policy Analysis Unit in the PIOJ and appointed its Director with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.40);
(O)    determined the scope and finalized cost sharing arrangements with the UWI for the
ISER Data Bank (para. 3.42);
(i)    decided on the number of titles per subject and per grade for its recommended
textbook list (para. 4.11);
(j)   sent the World Bank a final copy of the training implementation paper, including
details regarding the activities to be carded out by Joint Board of Teachers' Education
(JBTE) (para. 4.26); and,
(k)    undertaken a prequalification exercise to identify three civil works management firms
(para. 4.27).
6.2    During ne.otiationa, the Governmen:
(a)    agreed to submit to the Bank not later than Sepmber 15 of each year the specific
schools to be selected for the following academic year, based on specific criteria
(para. 3.6);
()    agreed to adopt a policy by August 15, 1993 regarding a comprehensive textbook
retal scheme at the lower secondary level, including a mechnism to identify and
support those unable to pay  ras. 3.15, 4.8);
(c)    provided written guarantee that the proposed project, as well as the three exisfing
World Bank social sectors projects (Social Sectors Development Project (Ln. 3111-
JM), the Population and Health Project (Ln. 2851-JM), and the Education Program
Preparation and Student Loan Project (Ln. 2899-JM)), be given priority in budgetary
and wafrant allocations for 1993/94 (para. 4.6 and Annex 13);
(d)    agreed to present to the Bank during the HRDP Annual Review (or in any case not
later than March 31 of each year), the draft budget submission for the forthcoming
year of the project (para. 4.6);
(e)    agreed to allocate in its amma budget to be proposed to Parliament the fiuds, in an
amount satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to implement the project in each fiscal year
(par. 4.6);
(t)    agreed that counterpart financing and extera resources, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be released to implementing agencias on a timely basis (i.e. notification of
quarterly warrants be provided within two weeks of the start of any quarter) (para.
4.6);



- 36 -
(g)   provided assuace that the UWI under the Social Policy Analysis component would
asume its share of the incremental rcurr  costs (pa. 4.8 and Amex 13);
(h)    speed to sdect independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit project accouns,
and provide copies of the audited statment to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year (para. 4.22);
(i)   agreed that the MOEC and the PIOJ would conduct, with prior approval of the terms
of refeence by the Bank, a Mid-term Implementation Review, not later than March
31, 1996, including the assessment of selected output indicators (para. 4.30);
(j)    agreed to carry out annualr vews of the project in conjunction with the HRDP
Aual Review exercise (or in any case, not later than March 31st), including policy
and fmancial targets as contained in the HRDP Policy Matrix (para. 4.31) and,
(tc)   agreed that not later than March 31, 1994, it would submit to the Bank anual targets,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the share of the MOEC recurrent expenditures that would
be allocated for Grades 7-9 (para. 4.31).
6.3    As conditions of loan effectiveness the Government will:
(a)   complete the appointment of the MOEC's Reform Management Team's Secretariat
professional staff and fill 50 percent of the newly created posts in the MOEC to be
supported by the project (para. 3.30);
(b)   sign an Agreement with the Bank as Administr  for a grant from the Government
of the Netherlands for cofinancing the proposed project (para. 4.5);
(c)   submit the 1993194 Parliamentary approved budget for the proposed project as well as
tree  dstng World Bank-flnanced projects in the social sectors, satisfactory to the
Bank, which reflect line ministries' submission of realistic implementation schedules
(parm. 4.6); and,
(d)   confirm that the MOEC has signed an agreement with the JBTE for training activities
which the JBTE will carfy out (par 4.26).
6.4    As a cofldidon of d ubent for the Survey of Living Conditions sub-component (to be
reflected in the NeStlands Grant Agreement), STATIN will have instituted a plan to implement the
recommendations forthcoming from the data quality review saisfatory to the Bank for the
improvemlent of data quality (maa. 3.43).
6.5   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constiutes a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$32 million equivalent to the Government of Jamaica, repayable in 17 years, including a
four-year grace period, at the Ba's standard variable interest rate.



-37-
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education Project
ANNEX LIST
ANNEX 1:   SQWSecto
Table 1:     Enrollment in Public Sector Educational Instiutions, 1987-88.
Table 2:     Differences in Physical and Educational Resources Among Public Secondary Schools,
1990-91.
Table 3:     MOEC Per Pupil Recurret Expendiures for Secondary Schools 1987-88
Table 4:     MOEC Recureent Expenditures by Program, 1981/82-1991192
Table 5:     MOEC Per Capita Expenditure by Program/Level 1981/82-1990/91
Table 6:     Average Private Educational Epenses of Students and their Families
Table 7:     Differences in Teacher Distribution and Qualifications in Public Secondary Schools by
Type of School, 1990-1991.
Table 8:     Enrollment in Secondary and Tertiary Education by School Type and Population
Quintile
Table 9:     Investment and Recurrent Budget Allocations, Selected Years
ANNEX 2:   onaLAonLMgPrgm
ANNEX 3:   Donor Acves in the Education Sector
ANNEX 4:   LmJsons Lea..d from 1    i2us BaankQiects
ANNEX 5:   Prolect Schools and Sts
Table 1:     Selection Criteria for Schools
Table 2:     First Year's Schools
Table 3:     Estimated Number of Studens
Table 4:     Project Schools
ANNEX 6:   Textbook Rental Scheme
ANNEX 7:   hnation Ratioizidign 
ANNEX 8:   ROSE SMoncte
ANNEX 9:    ublic Awarensampaign
ANNEX 10:  Evaluation of th Refom of &won E
ANNEX 11:  Socal Polie Andi         nn
ANNEX 12:  Projec Cost Tables/Allocation of Loan Poed/Esiae Schedule o
Disbusmes_
Table 1:     Project Cost Summary
Table 2:     Projects Componen  by Year
Table 3:     Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4:     Summary Account by Project Component
Table 5:     Allocion of Loa Prceeds
Table 6:     Estimated Schedule of Disbrsements



-38-
ANNEX 13:  Lett  of Aranc
Minstry of Finance
University of West Indies
ANNEX 14: Selected Documents and Data Anailable in the Proiect File
ANNEX 15:  ^_tation                 Aid   riodic Moniing ndicatot
ANNEX 16: l1meline
ANNEX 17:  &Srv M SchedAle sd Md-Term Review



-39.                           An=  1, Table l
JAMAICA
Reom of Socday Education
EurolUmnt in Publio Seodc         tuts, 1987-8                                 ;
Grades          Sdhool Type       Total     Pcent    Peret    Number   Pern of
femle    of grad.  of scbools    Tota
group
hifnnt      1Ifant               11,158      49.7       60.6       29
Pdmary               4,636      51.4       25.2        51
All-Ago              2,626      51.3       14.3       37
Subtotal            18,420      50.4      100.0      117        3.1
1 -6        Pdmary               170,845     50.4      52.5       294
AU-Age              154,497     48.6       47.5       493
Subtal              32,342      49.5      100.0      787        S4.S
7 -9        AU-Age               65,053      49.6      40.6       493
New Secondary        S4,333     47.2       33.9       64
Sec. Igh             31,321     58.7       19.S        57
To. I }gh            3,917      51.6       2.4         7
Comp. High           5,674      55.1       3.5         6
Subtotad            160,298     50.8      100.0      627        26.8
10-11       New Secondary        40,451      49.2      57.9        64
Sec. High            20,138     58.7       28.8       57
T&ch. High           4,426      50.1       6.3         7
Comp. High           4,046      53.1       5.8         6
Voc.Ag. Hiogh         447       52.1       0.6         3
Subtotal            69,890      52.3      100.0      139        11.7
Sec. HIgh            3,099      55.2       99.0       26
12- 13      TOchO Hgh              3         66.7       0.1         1
Coop. Higb             29       41.4       0.9         1
Subtta               3,131      55.1      100.0       28        0.5
Comm.L Collgeo       8,097      39.8       39.8        4
lfterdy     Teachers' Collegs     2,646      13.0       13.0        8
Colloge of Ag.        243        1.2        1.2        1
CAST                 4,126      20.3       20.3        1
17W!                 5,235      2S.7       2S.7        1
Subtotal            20,347     100.0      100.0       15        3.4
Total                            597,428                                     100.0
Nore: Miity of Educa_o, Sats  Secdton (Unit coat Study)
Nctes Bworemmit i*ncds pu"m. and eveedug stden at CAST, UWI, and the C4mmunity Cofleges Some percen
OMOmay MYct add to total due to rondWing Communit Cotep erolment incldes swoe students zot doing
tufw4md  ad dl b u lo                    CC_



,4.0                      Avex 1, TWlo2
JAMAICA,
Refor of Scocdy Educaion
Diffrne in Physic and Edcatonal Reorc  AmonS Pubic &eduy Schools
1990-1991
_     __           __                             _   ___
I . . ui ~~~~~~Al-A                        Nw   I OWW
School Averaa:_
Age of school (inycar)                 42           21          67
Number of eaae.                        16           27           34
Numbor of stde  (all gad.)            686          1148         1236
Num  of stdtb (7-9)                    16S         652          749
Number of claswoom blowb               3.3         4.7          5.8
Peentage of Schools Wit:     -
Sdcool Lb    with books                60.2         97.4        933
Sece Lab with equipmen                 8.0          68.4        80.0
Subject oxm                            19.3         94.7        96.7
Storg fality for books                 51.1         92.1        933
Stff room                              67.1         97.4        96.7
Office for scoox head                  92.1         97.4        100.0
Coungated iomn oofs                    63.6         10.5        40.0
Electict                               88.6        100.0        100.0
iped Water                             62.S         89.5        90.0
Plush toils for stdent                 33.0         89.S     .  90.0
Housing for principl and tahens        2.3         S5.3         60.0
Regular security                       23.9         92.1        90.0
=  d  mahance, }Persan                 3S3          31.8        95.0
School vehile                          0.0          11.S        36.7
Me. cabines                            61.4         97.4        100.0
Telephone                              193          63.2        86.7
1,p.wzritr                             47.7        100.0        100.0
Televison                              29.6         44.7        80.0
Comptyer                               1.1          10.S        66.7
RadIo                                  51.1         65.8        733
Coqying/dk qIic dingmabne              45.5         86.8        100.0
Cmnten/k1tchl                          70.S         97.4        100.0
REfrigera torFrteemr                   72.7         94.7        96.7
Puretnto of Studnts wi.t
90.0         87.0        94.0
P_pwMabbooks                           82.8         873         91.2
Complde et of required textbook        37.7         43.4        66.7
Dicti-nurieo                           33.2         36.9        60.7
Source Jamadia Surve of LIving Coibtons, Statistical  tiou of Jbmlia 1990



-41-                         Anne 1, Table 3
JAMAICA
Refom of Scondary Educaion
MOEC Per Pupi Recurrt Ependtu   for Secondary Schools
(in 1917188 1$)
|Expeditre    MAi-Age      Nw        Secondary  Tecicl    Comp.   Voc/Ag.
|    Category  ___     Secondary     High        High                 High
Teachers            495        936        1,009      1,234      904       2,006
Other Pesnnel        -         160        279        512        177       3,267
Non-persomel        63         106        381        Ms         206       5,356
expenditu re_                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _   _ _ _ _    _ _ _
Books & Cs           8         21          51         105        22        404
MatI                                       _
Physical            La          2          9          41         3         22
Education                             
Utiities nl.a                  21          52         107        30        56
Total Recurrent     558       1,2021,669             2,311     1,287      10,629
Exp_endr
Sour= MOBC fm Unit cost indy
Nobs: Dec  of danes in MODC hauf pmoceads, do edae 1w IA&A  Sdwoobs ny be bad upomd  *ough
pmbaby a by much. Teacher paillm for al school tpes hwhad ht  Ii b) OM and DIne C)as well as
slien_ls, bet no stay ka bem ms&  ouit U, uae  tasebwlsas'   d pemlos rgts



0                                                   *                                                                                          p M
IV  am    ov    s   4r    at     w    gtt    r   tt    w      es      ot          oat    WCsi    "    WI   we   "                   -Pwtp    I   ,
VSz lo      "   ow>  O   MSe "   at   VO  941               o  out w    Mt    o   tos   V           m           M     A     momo
wo s           to  eamg se usme sro  gm    to  os   ilo9c    Alo  "As   W*   an   g                    Om    w     an *e    On           e       BWaP w "3"o
we   gm    ST ex   tow eN   IV _tit    v   ant Ole  $,9    "   "Ws  "    mat  WV  omg ew   Gm$ ew    Aug                             PwW  -80 --
w   am     r Gm        w     ge    VI  4        s eL   ewt   "  ¢ t  Gm    VI  am    e'osg SO M  ot  sep> VI  Ute __^_t 1,
ve  tt. so   et .            i vo       sS nr  sut   so w vo                   . t  so   eta   ro   as    11   go w to  to sne" _^ Pdre
e"    ons       Wap W   row             am g    GOSe IV   Os gt  re   Kw    WC   am    n            tm 9         M           n      _     vpAppwoo
anWu   weus  ea   "tetWt C              an W9"see               Gise   muov               m          M   rt s  se > wt reU 4"m       opmeoNAD-a_em_
WmT et    Wm  SOI   ea r  m s ei  "AS rA   onon *tv    pomn  VW m                 Wue      tz 9Wm  in lot Su  10=   v    am$           AWO_W W
is  a       s  anu Vs> cW    To  an   res  so    VI   mg   Vs  "a s                  c mm      t  gm _r   nos _t  ou                          M, I  P^sT
Caa         oam        V    an     e'   SW    4r  tt2D wot "8    wt" gms  WOlt  Om    VI  gm    Vs  gm                     gum                    A:o
~~~~~ton              *01100           IT rwt             AW  >      S Cs omas    Massotr  B_t *bWm$     ewmi        wnt gttaBt_
orc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M   s me aw is  v wt _Ss _o%" om  mbs0ot Id
'4   rS                                                                  C                 SrW CW to t   $_dB
Acn Gs GD @Se zwr ns wn7Z_ wms_t__
0s  GtB  wS U   Wa>v so t 
_54tllzw, |¢~w
3 '4                        0                       o          0S          0           0                                   0 
_   _   euw   _   "           _          9          sb         ns"s          l          - @BI ~~~~~~~~~upmiImsupuqua@u
t.swpmapajsmmpwpao4itn smuuiwpaqpges.uuuemv
s B t  K _>WOWS3a_oidu4e4pommIssmaus..qwm4eq



JAMAICA
MOEC PER CAPITA EXPENDITURE BY PROGRAMAIE_EL
198182 to 19919
(conn 1981 Jamaican )
PROGRALEVEL                          81/        8283       834        8486       85m       887        87)88     88s89      aim10     aim
a        ^nuw &                         268         265       272        234       196        228       241        269       308        375
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NeWSecodwry                             739         754       634        639       448        628       S06        624       6"         633
secondary Ho                            745         799       771        863       601        683       633        628       772        703
CoMP*weAl.H                             881         802       762        534       436        619       471         523      516        S0W
Technicawona1 192                                                                          11If 1148 9t
(weIgtd averadk )                       810         827        730       818        528       812        580       841        705       642
Som: MOMC, Statiics Sedt (UnB Cost StudWi
o-3



44-                       Annx 1, Ta  6
JAMAICA
Rdbnm of Soonday Emdut
Avue Pivft Bitial pss of Stdet ad thoi Familes
_________         _____~(maweg  is spentpupil)
Ependitures        AI-A     Nw Se       HIgI    TeL    Coop.   Voc.   PvL Sec.  Pvt Do.
Trnsport             128       4S8       512      332      404      40       622        S03
Lnh                 287        400       361      205      369      439      48S        600
Unifm               731        692      1,038     9?7    1.081      871      1,398      768
Supplies            163        398       497      237      221      210      269        127
Tutol                72        21        49       18        2        0        11         6
(% who go hoed        1       (12        (17)     (9       (2       (0       (6)        O0
Books                190      8s         353      135      122      440      264        396
(% who buy bookB)   (43)      (35)       (62)    (100)    (53)      (97)      71        (96)
Totll               1,571     2,049     2,810    1,904    2.289    2,001    3,049      2,400
wmimm               342        979       454     1,6S9    1.832    1,664     200       2,098
M    _xmm           3,33S     2,727     3,444    2,098    2.609    225      S,310      3,145
Soue: MOEC, Unit Cost Sudy 1990, Survey Dft
Now- All daea are sda  by pinocipal of avaug bowehair in their schools. 1he expenditur edtimtes
presetd abovtae th prieipas' cot ei s by cte    and wsght thor by dent euolimants and by
pinp    esimes of what peco_te of studnts buy boos, pay tition, et. Wit espect to hes
pecontages, t is asumed that ths stden who do o pay dhe estimed chrSe pay othig. Mme
hugmitedmcategor incudes estimates of field trip expesue as well as commutin costs.



-45-                    Amnex 1, Table 7
JAMAICA
Refom   of Seoday Educaton
Diffeces In Teacher Distribution and Qualificstions in Public Secondary Schools
by Type of School, 190-1991               _
MA-AgV         New         Secondary
Seconday        High
Teacher:Pupil rado                     1:33          1:20          1:19
Pet...n with:
Uneswity degreeTained                 1.9           7.7           19.6
Univeity degree/Untrained             0.1           1.6           11.6
Untrained Teaces                     14.6           5.9           5.5
Post secodary degree                 18.6          31.9           44.1
Yeas of secoday teching eperc          5.3           8.3           7.8
Source: lamaica Survey of Livmg Condhions, Ststical nstute of amaica, 1990.



46-                     Annex 1, Tsble 8
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education
Enrollment in Secondary and Tertiay Education
by School Type and Population Quintile
(Pecent)
Popuation QuintDe
School Type      poorest     2         3       4       5
All Age, grades. 7-9   44.6      32.9     26.6    19.7    16.0
New Secondary          33.8      37.1     39.0    25.3    16.8
COMP. High              3.9       6.3      4.6      3      2.5
Tehnicad High           3.2       3.5      3.9     4.0     3.4
Secondary High          10.2     16.1     23.4    41.4   47.1
Voc./Ag. High           3.2      2.1       0.7     2.5     4.2
Post Secondary          1.9       2.1      2.0     4.0    10.1
TOTAL                   100       100     100      100    100
Source:    Jamaica SurvW of Living Conditions, Analytical Review, 1991
Statistical hntitut of Jamaica, October 1992.
Note:     P.actages do not always add up to 100 due to rounding.



47-
Annex I,T,ble 9
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Educaton Project
Inv_set and Reurre  Budget Allocations
Health and Educaion Sectors
Selected Years
in US$ mUilions and percent)
A.   Public       _        Progr  (PSIP)
Cm millions US$ and %)
SBCIS R                           1992/93        1993/94       1994/95       1992-95
Health                            21.7            38.2           29.0         88.9
Education                         11.0            21.9           31.2         64.2
TOTAL Healt & Education           32.7            60.1           60.2        153.0
TOtrAL as % of Totl PSW           13.3            19.2           23.7         19.0
Sbource: JamaicL Public &=  lmmg=  ProgaaI992/93-14   Report No. 10297-JM.
B.    Recffe BW
(as pecent of total GO recurent budget)
SECTOR                    1988/89     1989/90      1990/91      1991/92"    1992/93W
Health                        8.2        8.4          8.4          8.6          7.5
Education                    16.3       17.2         17.3         16.4         16.0
Soure: Plamning Insttute of Jamahca.
a. Dow for 1988/89 to 1991/92 based on actua data
b. Data for 1992/93 are provisional based on First Supplemntary Estimates.



-48-                        Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Educatiot
National Assessmenta
Desc&ptiQn: Jamaica began developing a National Assessment Program (NAP) directed at the
primary level of education in 1986 with assisnce from the Intr-American Development Bank. It is
based on the aew primary curriculum, which completed its first cycle for Grades 1-6 in 1988. To
date, national administrations have only been carried out for the Grade 6 test and the Grade 1
Readines Inwentory. All oher tests are still under developmen. The Grade 6 test was adminiered
nationally to approximately 45,000 students in 1988, 1989, 1990 and in selected parishes in 1991.
Trends in stdent aievement on the Grade 6 test over the 3 yeas of national administrtion show a
steady gain. Ibis is thought to be a consequence of the feedback given to the schools on ther
students' performance. ITe Grade 1 Readiness Inventory was adminstered in 1989, and showed that
only 50% of the students messed were performing adequately. However, this may be more of an
indication of test design than student capacity.
Toals: The MOEC stated goals of the NAP are as follows:
(a) to assist the tacher In planning and adapting instuconal activities for the stuents, based
on infonmation on sudent educational growth and adcevenent;
(b) to identify areas of strength and weakness in student achieveme  and to assist the teaher
in planning actvities ad programs for proving enrichment or remediation as neccsar,
(c) to inform school professionals about areas of strength and weakness in school programs,
hs enabling developmental and corrective action to be taken;
(d) to assist te Ministy in formulating policy involving the allocation of resources (financial,
material and hma);
(a) to ptovide information indicating the type and eax   of in-service education requred or the
nature of changes needed in teache preparation;
(t) to provide date for analyses to improve all fioets of educationd quaity and performnce;
(g) to ensure that instructional materials and processes utUized reflect the unique naue of
Jamaican cultur and the environme  in which chilren learn.
nsftuments: IThe NAP consists of a variety of istuments, incuding:
(a) Gade 1 School   nb entry: to determie which children entering Grade 1 posses
ihe skills and knowledge they need to learn e curriculum and which will need assise in
developing tee readines ski. There is vi e, howvr, that some teachers are using



9-                      Aran2ex2
Page 2 of 2
this and/or other instuments to select children for Grade 1 and tbat some children are either
sent back to basic school or to anotier "less desirable" primary school;
(b) rdes 1 and 2 checklists; to assist teachers determine if students have mastered the skills
taught and asess whether the child is ready to move on to the next topic or should receive
addtidonal assistmce;
(c) Grade 3 Diagnostic Tests (mathematics and reading performance):
(d) Grade 4 and S Acheyepment Tests Oanguage, mathematics, science and social studies):
these tests, which are taher marked, are used primarily to assist teachers in deernng
individual stude  needs;
(e) Grde 6 Achimev ests (mathematics, reading, science and social stdies): these tests,
which are cenaly marked, are intended to determine what skills and concepts the students
have acquired in primary school, and to use the information to make improveme  in the
p    system.
Mling: Collecting and reporting test results for every studen in a given primary grade, as
is prently the case in Jamaica, is very costly and time consuming. Conseqntdy, sampling students
is currently beig consdered. Sampling has the benefit of providing various grups (eg.,
policymakers, curriculum directors, school staff, etc.) with usefl information for the purpose of
Smging leaning achievement and for targeting resources. The impact of assesment on instruction is
also retained, although perhps not as forcelly as with individual student scores.
Asmn  vs Selectitfi n: lhe issue of sampling is directly related to the
objecdves of a given eam: if selection/cefification is the goal, then each student must be tested; if
amesg the systems performance in order to inform policy is the goal, then testing samples of
studelts iS more cost-effective. In Jamaica, thi is partiarly relevant at Grade 6, where the
Ministry is seeking to improve its selection mechanism (tbe Common Enrance Exam) with a more
curiculum based exam (eg., the NAP), yet also seeks to assess the performance of the pimary
system. This may have implications for the design of the Grade 6 exam.
Humanjgesop Caai: At present, only two people in the MOEC are assigned to
managing the entire NAP portfolio. Given fte requirements of item writing, test development,
admini ion, scoring, security, and tmely reportig, this is clearly insudficien  However, the
MOEC is operating in a very scarce resource environent, and must carefully consider which
responsibiities must necarly reman in the Ministry and which might be contracted out.



-50-                       Annex 3
Page I of 2
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education
Donor Aciviis in the Education Sector
Donor activity in the education sector is mainly concentrated in the area of primary education.
The Iner-Ameican Development Bans's (IDB) recently completed Primary Education Project I
(1984-1991) sought to improve the quality of primary education by supporting the establishment of
the National Assessment Program (NAP), the building and renovation of 54 schools to provide 28,700
new physical places plus some living accommodations. The follow-on Primazy Eabaton
Improvement 1X (US$30 million), currently under preparation, will support: the contned
development of the NAP; the evaluation of the primary program and revision of the curriculum;
upgrading and training of primary school teachers; lbay services; and physical infrastruct
mprovements.
The USAID Primary Education Asestae Project (PEAP) I, (US$5.4 million) is aimed at
improving the overal efficiency and effeciveness of the primary education system in Jamaica.
Efficiency of te system will be enhanced by assistng the MOEC to decentralize maagement
acvities and by tring school principals to manage their schools better. Effectiveness of the system
nill be improved by assitng the MOEC to improve its delivery of relevant matmatis education to
stuents in Grades 1-6. Ihe project will prepare a plan and strategy for correcting shortcomings in
the matmatcs program at the primary level.
CIDA has just completed the Primay School Textbook Project   (C$1.4 million). The
project provided the paper needed to produce over 2.5 million primary school textbooks to schools
trughout the island.
Donor inteventons at the secondary level have been mostly small-scale and although none
have comprehensively addressed the GOJ's reform of secondary education, several projects have
included Important elements that would support the reform effort. For example, UNESCO carried
out the Sco Mappig and Mia-Planing project (1984-1990) which prepared school maps for
each parish i anticipation of rationalizmg the secondary school network.
Ihe education component of the WDB's Rural Township Deveopmnt Progam (1989-1994)
fimances predominately civil works to upgrade secondary schools in selected towns damaged by
Hurricne Git
Thoe GO is implementing an Upgrading of New Secondary Schols (1990-1994) which bner
alla, includes the intoduction of a new academic program into 25 New Secondary Schools which will
allow appmately 25 percent of the stdens to sit examinations set by the Caribbean Examinations



-51-_Ann  3
Page 2 of 2
Conil (CXC) at Grde 1 1 and reurbishing schools and equipping schoob with the necessay
equipment and teacing aids. The MOEC is cuntly reviewing this project to ensure that it i
comistem with the new reform, and in particular the introduction of the common curriculum.
lbe ODA's Smudary Shools Tcdbook Plroject M ) for US$9.4 mfllion, supports
quality improvements in secondary education through increasing access to teaching and learning
materials for students. The project contains tiee major component: (a) a Textbook Rental Scheme
which has been introduced in 180 secondaty schools to distibute over one million textbooks in
various subject areas; (b) in-service teacher training component for 4,000 teaches anmnally, icluding
a materials production course; and (c) remedial textbook development which seeks to establish a
textbook development progrm for middle and lower ability students--caled Foundation I and
Foundation 2-aimed at approxiately 60,000 pupils in secondary schools. CIDA's proposed follow-
on B    c  Textbooks Project will continue to support primary school textbook prining, but it
will also etend its activities to the lower secondary level (Grades 7-9) with the provision of paper.
Te tentative cost is C$3-5 million.
Finally, UNDP through its Tracer Study of Gradtes of Secondary Education (1990-1992)
is conducdng a survey of 250 graduates of a representative sample of secondary schools to determine
the placement and suitability of these graduates for the labor market or tertary education. Findings
Of the study will provide useful data and information on the links between educational background and
job opporunities, as well as idite the curricula changes at the upper secondary level (Grades 10-
11) which will ensure that secondary students are more suitably prepared for the workplace.
IDE's Universy of the West Indies DevProgm  is co-financed with the
University of the West Indies (UWI) and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), for a cost of
US$80 million, of which the IDB fund US$56 million; US$24 million will be provided by UWI and
the CDB. The progrm is based on a ten year development plan (1990-2000) prepared by UWI
aimed at overall improvement and stengteing of the university systm  The project includes:
infructur, equipment and institutiond development components specifically rated to the
improvement anUor expansion of teaching and reseach, and a regional componen to stegthen
outreach servic  to non-campus counies and off-campus students. The ODA also provides
assistance to UWI and CAST.
Mn== .SM- 
Other donor support in the education sector is aimed improving the mag  capabiliies of
the MOEC. UNDrs Education Sector M ageeut Project (MM) (US$430,000) assists the
MOCs Projects Division to improve the project m       capabiity, and the developmeat of an
inrmation system on the physical status of educationd institutions, as well as the productin of an
insument for school asessment As a component under FPAP II, USAU is supporting the
establisbment of a comprehensive and compueied Educational   nno mnation System
M)  for the MOEC (US$1.4 million). Technical assise will be provided to refine the MO1C
data systems, establish an EMIS, and cary out policy analysis. The project will also provide
hardware for the MIS uniL



-52-                    Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education
Lesons Leaed from   Ui Auk BalW
1.     A      Ite RanUing aW pgaion are vital for the effective implemenstion and achievement of
project objectives as originally conceived. For example, in civil woris, notable delays and cost overruns
in past project were attributable pardy to the lakc of carefl detailed planning during project preparation.
Inadequate site and quantity surveys faied to take account of such factors as topography, access and
availability of electricity and water leading to unforseen costs of site deveopment during impl on;
in some casem, it led to deletng proposed sites from the project.
2.    An Important element in project design, particdarly in the education sector, is the inclusion of
evaluation. Ihe abilty to eval  through assessment and testing what the impact of additonal inputs
i for educaional achievement will determine whether such interventions are efective in reaching project
objecdves and efficiendy utiliz scarce resorces. lhe resuts of such an evaluation system, if deemed
sisct  can then be used to modify project design durig implementation.
3.    Ijutuonalw atimta. Successfl projectimple on  relies heavily on strong institutiona
and bureacrac arrangemet, which should prefeably be in plae prior to negotiaon. PCRs for the
firs three education projects noted taut the PIUs had no clear lines of responsibility and were also
Iadequatey staffed. Delays and cost overruns in Implementig projects through PIUs were attrbuted
to: the lack of deted project Implemettion schedules; limited supervision of the constrction program
and pme0_na  ;ragemenu; and finally,  dOequa  financi records to perfrm monitor costs. In
the Imple mention of the Fourth Education Project, there has also been a problem with high staff
tunover becuse salaries, which are tied to govement pay scales, are reltvely low. A review of
govrnent ministris and their pesonnel stuces is being carried out under the   vernment
Administrate Review Project (ARP) to ensure t  the salaries offered are competitive enough to atiract
and maintain sufficienty quaified staff.
4.    In the area of civil works, implentn problems have been encounteed in three out of the
four education projects. lThis is pardy due to the weak instional capacity of a minstry of education
to carry out civil works. Because of the low salaries it can offer, the MOEC has been unable to attract
tuchnic pesonnAel of a high calibre in the area of civil woris management In an attempt to addrs this
issue, the Fourth Education Project contacted out the _ nt of civil worms extion to the Efte
Development Company (EDCO). EDCO was responible for: the preparation of archectural and
e_ghwaing designs; the preion  of tender docwments, the preqo alifion of contractors; the
endering and the prerion of tender   uations; the supervision of constructio; and final completions
of the upgrading and extion components. Ie               of EDCO has not been saifctory,
particay in the areas of prequalifying conractos and supervision of consuction acdvities. If the
MOEC intends to continue utlizing an ouside design/management fim, more than one firm should be
contracted to spr tead rhis of poor performance and reduce civil works Imleion delays.



-53-                       Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
5.    Elbiitv in adapting project durng implementation has also shown by eperience to be
importt In order to adjwt for unforseen ihange in circumstances. This is especialy the case where
the project design is iaherendy complex. (e.g. those undrtaking major refonms).
6.    Eimm"  gmvasi. A major constraint to project imple  ion in Jamaica has been the lack
of local countpart funds; this was especlly the case in the flrs two educaion projects. More recently,
the rdeas of donor resoures bth loan and grant funds) through the GMJ's budgettng and warm
release mechanisms have been a major bottleneck in implementing projects according to design. For
exAmple, during 1991/92, the MOEC was allocated only 70% of the budget it requested; of this amount,
acht  expnditr  through the warrant system were slightly less or 67%. This has meant that project
managers are unable to rationally anticipate the availability of fiuds for issuing of major contracts; nor
are they able to meet payme  schedules.



-54-                          Annex 5, Table I
JAMAICA
Reform of Scondary Education
Selection CritA for Shqools to be clude in th Rerm of Sodar EdaSto EPjt:
Before Bank clearamce can be secured for tendering, the Government of Jamaica will confirm that
propery ownership for each site is in the name of the Government of Jamaica, or that each site iS leased
to the G(0 for a tem of not less thian 49 years. In addition, schools to be selected for the Project will
be chosen frm asmng All-Age and New Secondary Schools and shall meet the following critria:
1.    Conditions favorlng equity of access:
a)    Schools located where the population is particularly disadvantaged (e.g. rural areas)
b)    Project ROSE to include a representative geographic sample of schools with an island-
wide distnbution
2.    Conditions justifying long-term investmets:
a)    Sites to be adequate to contain the reired building expansions
b)    Better than aver  perceived quality of the school amnsttion and its relationship
with the commuity
c)    Be    t    averge performance and commitment of the school's academic staff
d)    Positve erollmt trends
3.    Conditions lhniting civil wors investment costs:
a)    Physical proximity to convertd Tecna High Schools and newly reurbished Secondary
High Schools
b)    Same schools as targetd under the New Secodary School upgrading
c)    Shools with primary facities upgrading included in IIDB project
d)    Reaively low upgrading needs of the existing facilities
Two additional criteria were used to select Year 1 schools:
4.    Size of Year 1 schools to be limited between 1 and 3 strems
5.    First year's schools to permit implemention of new curriculum with minimal additonal
constrction (especially workshop and science lab).



-55-                        Anmex 5, Table 2
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education Project
FYear's Schools
AU Age School,
Cedar Valey                          St. Thomas
Avocat                               Portand
Mount Herman                         Portand
Retreat                              St. May
Mount Angus                          St. Mary
Enfleld                              St Mary
Moneague                             St. Ann
Bellevue                             Trlawny
New Hope                             Westmoreland
Hatfied                              Manchese
Elderslie                            St. ElihAbeth
Rest                                 Clarendon
Wbite Marl                           St Catherine
Constan Spring                       St. Andrew
New &cday Schoos
Edith Dalton James                   St. Andrew
Donald Quarro                        St. Andrew
Port Antonio                         Porland
Tacky                                SL May
Maldon                               St James
Grn sand                             Hanover
sanaMchs
Juncton                              St. Elizabeth
Clude McKay                          Clhrrndon
Waterford                            St. Catheine



da .1 4 keSs  Ma
58*nted "itew of Saidfts Rago.* Now Ou*Sat
eV Yvo By ads
Foul          __u Yo2                                                                  YPrS                           Yetr
6g41c7     *dade   GandeS   Grade?7 Go  a ae  BaisS    tuSGowed. tab          0r.d0    Grad.?7   Gradtae r Oa".       Grs?Gade ens    GrabS 
8t  mnm to          211       M1        211      211       211       211       211       2tt       211      21$       211       21t       211       211       211
-bm a  1481      141"   ~ ~ ~ 614              1461      1461     1461      1461      1481      1461      146t      14       1461      1461      146
A        ~         1170                          M2O      1170                1170      1170     1170      1170      1170      1170      1170      1170     1170
2386   2206     2m                  2306      2306      2305      23~~815    85       826       315       315      a16
*~~~~o Ye2 Sohb                                            1036                          tO35     t03S                t1036     thi6      *03       1036     1036      tOQS
ANA"                                             72               7                      72t                720   E72D          720       720      2         720
------------  sil;               315        M                 9115      316       SIG       SIG~~~~~~121  1SIG  121     4
YO  SG8d   i                                                                   2228                         2226      22261 2226                    226      2225
A*WN                                                                                                        81        eta                 SIG       sio      $tO8t8O
_00                                                                            2000  M                      200       200                 200      200       2t
Bytbw              637       162        21                   7       62 5-               3       6141       6562     620       6202       1650     M56       t26 5
YO4  _ooo                                                                                                   towS                          low       t
1660     1170                2500      1660      11s0 316                               315        45s
1      1 A212                                                                                               200                 70                 200
_______________ _                1_52   ______________                         _                               2421    5_____________
torL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~s
By fab                       l2         2t  2 t  Om2 6 27            left     OmSOm               o?        aSW                G    tlow           Om   1 611
t3u . t89su110 12900 t0U        oe    117ew416                                                                       2 e0 t8 9 0        3416      34t6 2a0.
now 8tft          2316                          2tO       238 111            a1t       2700      Z11B     441;6     sets      2700      UOO       44li6     Mst
"a                1892      10112      211      Is"      t02      te82      tool      1802      tZ92      1062      1062    *IlM       Is"8      to"k      la"
MM O   ne anttl 72    10 m  A4   221bow _lcolrf. so Cxdm. 
C.... a. gwa A ADAgeb ate - adsc hdu4 sde        f                                                                                                                     %A
Fb% Scwed. O. mesas.o Grade 7          t 211; OrmlubtGfads eh7  * 1481.                                                                                               '1
i'



JAMAICA
Reforn of Secondary Education Project
Project Schools
PROJECT SCHOOLS             1        2         3        4         5        6        7         a        9    TOTAL
YEAR                                                      STREAM SIZE                                   _ _
I    Al-Age            4         8        2                                                                 14
New Secondary                        3                  3        1         1        2                 10
SUB TOTAL         4        8         5                  3         1        1        2                 24
2    AN-Age            2         2        2         1                                                        7
New Seconday (a)                     1        1                                                        2
SUB TOTAL         2        2         3        2                                                        9
3    AMPAg             1                  2                   1        1                                     5
New Secondary (a)                             1         1        3                                     5
Sm Al-Ape        10                                                                                   10
_ _ BUBTOTAL     1                   2         1        2         4                                   20
4    AIA-Age           2         1         1                                                                4
New Secondary (a)                             1                                     1                  2
Sm AU-Age        10                                                                                   10
SUB TOTAL        12        1         1        1                                     1                 16
5    New Secondary (a)                              1                                     1        1        3
SUB TOTAL                                     1                                               1        3
TOTAL SCHOOLS             29        11        11        5        6         6        1         4        1       72
J AU-Age          9        11        7         1        1         1                                   30
New SecYdw (a)                       4        4         4        4         1        4        1        22
I8m AM-Age       20                                                                                   20
(a) New Secondary schools In years 2-5 of the project are not scheduled to receive civl works.
I-'



-58-                             Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
Reform of Seondary Education
R Sch eme
1. There are few books of any kind in the All-ge schools for grades 7-9. In the ofhr schools for these
grades books for Normative and Enriched reading abilities exist through the Secondary Schools Textbook
Project which created a book rental scheme. The schme enabled schools to build up texook accounts
which could be used to buy fuither books when the books spplied under the SSTP became unusable
tbrough age or were damaged, lost or stolen. But there were no books for the students whose reading
ability was below the Normatve level and these students remain without suiable texts in all the types of
secondary school in Jamaica.
2. Under the Secondary Schools Textbook Project the book rental scheme was insstituted from 1987-4
in grdes 7-12 in all schools except the All-age. Textbooks were supplied to schools and students were
invited to rent them at approximately one third of their estimated replacement cost. Book life was
assumed to be 3 years and all books supplied were published by UK publishers (although authors were
for the most part Caribbean). Each school was responsible for administrng the rental scheme and for
establishing an exclusive bank account for the rental revemne which could only be used for buying furthr
textbooks. An amount of 10% of the rental was authorized to be used by the school for the
administraion of the rental, payment of a responsible member of staff and repairs to a book storage amea.
Schools would convwey their textbook needs each year by Febnry to the central adminiron of the
SSTP rentl scheme at the MOEC which would inrm them of the cost to be met by their rent
account. When money from the rental accouns was to be paid over for book purchase, the schools had
to get the checks countersipned by the ACEO Publications Unit, MOEC. lhe SSTP adminitrtion would
then order the books frm the UK using the Crown Agems for the procurement and to organize the
shipping. Books arving at Kingston docks wre exempted from wharfage and other charges. A local
tender was used to buy consolidation services for each school and ditbution of the books.
3. The problem experienced by the rea scheme was that a significant number of students did not rent
the books. The two reasons for this were tgat some families could not affordthe rental amounts (which
varied per book) and some students could not read the books and so did not rent them. The proportion
of students in each category is not known and an impact sty is proposed by the MOEC for March-May
1993 to invesdgate this. Schemes have been prposed to ounterat the problem, including the payment
in installments of one sum for the rena of a set of books (thereby maldng sure that stwdens have all the
books rather than selecting the pnority subjects - La ge Arts and Math - only to rent), the supply of
books as class sets which students would generaly not take home and which could be used over several
streams of the same grade. Problems also eadst regading the early date needed to collat all the school
orders which forces schools to guess their fture requirements and the availability of foreip excha
to convert the Jamaica dollars to hard currency. The fidamental problem for the viability of the rental
concept was the fall in ft value of the Jamaica dollar in 1991 which memt do the rena amounts
collected over the supposed 3 year life of the book were no longer sufficient to replace books.
Fortnately, two fortutous buffers alleviated this problem: firstly, too many books were ordered for the
Project and the surplus could continue to be disbuted free of cag to sebools, thus saving the schools'



-59-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
tetbook accounts; and the durabilty of the textbooks was greater than estimated -four years or more -
and the replacement ratw was thefore less than ected while the renta revenue continued to be based
on a 3-year book life.
4. Ihe MOEC wishes to extend ost recovery for textbooks to all schools with grades 7-9. At present
the only schools which do not participate in the rental scheme are the All-age schools. In the ROSE
Ptoject the supply of books to a number of All-age schools will be the occasion to introduce the principle
of cost recovery to these schools. The ODA impact study planned for early 1993 will analyze why
students do not rent books, either because they cannot afford the fees or that the books provided were
too advanced for their readig ability. The ODA study will be used by the MOEC to design a
comprehensive book rental/cost recovery scheme for all secondary schools, icludmg an effective
mechanism to identify and support those unable to pay the fees.
S. Et- proposed project will stengthen the SSTP rental adminitration, which, it is expected, will
eventually be subsumed undar the Educational Media Unit once the SSTP is completed. Two additional
field officers will be necessary to visit the All-age schools entering the ROSE Project, as will local
technical assistance to input school data onto the computer and to design the computer control for the
enty of all schools into a rental or similar cost recovery system. Admini on documents for schools
will also be supplied by the Project as will short training for one school principal and one textbook rental
administrator per ROSE All-ge school.



-60-                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
JAMAICA
Rfom of Seconday Education
Exa4inaton izao,aaizaon  ono
Bakgrond. Well designed and a             educational  hievement tests are the principal source of
fomaion for (a) evaluatig the progress of an education system towards achieving its objectives and
() evaluatig the impact of educaion refoms, such as the ROSE program. In addidon, tests typically
are used to certify accomplishn  and are considered fair and equiable means of allocating scarce plac
in secondary and higher education. In Jamaica, a wide rag of tests are developed and admistred
annually to sudens for purposes of monitorig adhivement, certification and selection. A recent review
of the Jamaica educational test  system (Harris and lIon, 1992) identified two problems: poor quality
tests and inefficient testing programs. As a consequence of these problems, test results have not been
used to inform policy decisions within the Ministry. The purpose of this componen is to improve the
qualy of teWs, improve the efficiency of testing programs and extend the utility of the  sts for
evaluation and policr analysis, while keepig withi a recogized budget evelope.
Descrition of the Jamaicn  E _danal Tstg System  A plethora of monitoring, certification and
lection tesls are developed and/or         annually by or for the Ministy of Education. These
can be groue  into four categories: (a) National A       Program  tes  (NAP), (b) high school
section test, (c) Miistry of Educatio cerfication tests and (d) exern  certification tests. In all,
about 170 subject tests (e.g. English,     catiCs, elecra Installation) are adminisred to about
162,000 studens annually, for an average of about 1000 eamnees per subject test.' Many subjects are
tested in more than one program. Two MOEC certifiation programs at the secondary evel (SC and
SSC) have a 57%  overlap in the subjects they test; they also overlp 46% and 55%, repectively, with
ceficaton ests developed and admistered for the MOEC by an external testing agency, the Caribbean
Examitions Council (CXC).
Qua Wy. A high quality t  is both valid and reiable; it measur  what it is supposed to measure and
does so timer time. No empirical evie  is available regading the reliabiity or validity of tests
developed by and for the MOEC. A revie  of et development procedures, however, suggests that the
tests may      shortcomings in both respects. With repect to 15 ndiators of test development
procedure ,- ity, MOEC high school sdection tests averaged 1.3, MOEC certification tOsts averaged
3.0, the NAP-Grade 6 Test received 6 and the CXC test-development procedur  received 13. Test
1Mm Natina Am mmt A     N1 h-(AP) b Urnd Gad. I ReadlammNW, Onad3 DIapnoetlTed, Gra 1-6 Ceklm of
_Prp., .d Grads6 AdawrnaTeat tinup  datk,munsad ash bule). Hih}hoIuleelm es aehedsu
Corsnaaatwa.    rCBE-ll+ 1Bg, ordremisad "nitIalty, Comnrnoer1bsr8esodazTecnlca15choI,
or CIM-13+ (1,gfi nstb   and-, abid  ), and Uo. rads9 A_hmueSt, or GNAT (Do80A an athunaW). M?dor
MOEC _"oUdon e  n m dtsiareAlcaool Catfifs. orJ8C b28   a tsta) and do Secoay Shool Cur_fla  or SSC (27 abjast
tea). Extrl cedUficaIo e   1xanlnallons I o Cclude helCoaroanCoani Doea, ar CXC4ab (20 sJect.), d. CXC Gaa
(27 zdisW) an tew olebdoby Uyd CaBmbrdge   Boad
'IndItos ami: pubid sylbus, publed blquprint, ct      prace. IMp_beasloas, aalsa apslflca_onm, item
prelaig, Itemal  pro to asPan pr&p ng oqrclv hn aash equaling, in abily, stb, laer vaidiy, exten
vadt, maiblity of tecni data, aabli of _c  maL



-61-                            Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
admintration procedures5 wore adequate for all tests, although slightly lower for the NAP tests.
Cost. Testlng represents a smal item in the MOEC budget. The anmnal budget for esting in Jamaica
was 1$7.3 million, including support to the CXC; it does not include the costs to parents and sdenht for
test preparation and registration. Ihe MOEC budget for testing is allocated as follows: 40% for high
school selection, 33% for MOEC-developed cerdfication and 26% for CXC certificato   Costs per
sudent to the MOEC an  from less than J$10 to more than J$2000 per subject, depending on the
purpose of the test and the number of eaminees. All certification programs indluded low-volume subject
tests. For eample, registratons for 25 (of 28) JSC subject tests, three (of 27) SSC subject tests, 8 (of
20) CXC-Basic subject tests and 1 (of 28) CXC-General subject tests were lower than 100. Costs per
award' rage from J$150 to J$42,000, depending on the subject and test program. The NAP was
supported, 1988-92, by an 1DB loan; its costs, therefore, do not appear in the MOEC budget. Most
(67%) NAP resources were directed at the development and administration of a curriculum based
achievemen test for studets in Grade 6.
Cost effec5ivens. Cost-effcdveness was judged according to relative cost per examinee for the same
subjects tsted in different programs and examinee cost per unit of quality. With respect to cost per
exminee, SSC subject tests were loss cosdy tm  either JSC subject tests or CXC subject tests; for
similar subjects, JSC and CXC-Basic costs per examinee were 4.5 times and 2.5 times higher than SSC
subJects. With respect to the second indicator-average examinee cost per unit of test development
quality-all cetification tests were more cost-effctive than all high school selection tests. The NAP
Grade 6 test was six times as cost-effecdve as the CEE-11+.
Managemt. The ornization of testing a      s in the MOEC has also been inlicin, although
recent changes in structure may improve this element of efficncy. Internal esting programs have been
caried out in the NAP Unit and the Evaluation Unit (renamed the Stuent A s          Unit as of
September 192) staffed by three professional staff (SEO or EO), six semi-professional staff and 53
clerical staff, with many overlapping functional (not program) responsibilities. Much work is completed
muanuy. Data etry and analyis for large volume tests (e.g. the CEE and the Grade 6 NAP) is
contracted out to private fims and the MOEC lacks resources necessary to check quality beyond the
minimum involved in verificaion of data entry. Internally, most staff time is employed on
a      ative  tasks associated with test production, adminitration and scoring; virtualy no staff tme
is directed toward analdytic tasks to ensure test reliability and validity, or to policy analyis utilizing the
results of testing programs.
Test uWy. At present, tests admistred to students In Jamaica are used for certification and selection
only. The ROSE program, when folly Implemented, will enable all children to free flow" into a junior
high school program (i.e., grades 7-9). Th use of tests for selection at grade 6, dterfore, will be
gradualy phased out and evenualy eliminaed. At the same time, the importance of tests for monitoring
the effecdvenes of te educaton system as a whole will grow.  Valid and reliable tests, and
supplementary information, will be needed for rapid policy analysis and decision making.
5ilus as lagout, print  aity, ofeis of tent produc&n rratoa.  w lear dmnua  dirtoWN, atd  admiWao
s.prooeai dnw~geim. esecrPwftIn tea M&-.
4 A plea in a bigh sehod ptugta.. or a pemluggVd. an a 18C SW or CXC mubjeo tea.



-62-                               Annex 
Page 3 of 3
Decisions on Rationalization of the Exam Sytem
Exam                 Shot-term                Medhun-teum              Long-tem
CEE 11+                                        *Eliminate in 1996
*Repla o with New Grade 6
Achevement Tedt
CEE Technial                                   *Phasut                   *EIliminate
New Gamde 6         *D.velop detoied             oduce new test   1995   *Eiminiate selecon/
Achievement         specificatons for test    for selecdon, placement and   plcenJt functon
developmen                monitori_g                 of tet
*Public awareness         *Desip plan to eliminate
campaign                  selecion/ paeenat
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ fun ction     of    tes
GNAT                 *Adept for ROSE Gr. 9     *Pbase out by shool        *Eliminate
students for 1994         beginn   in 995S
New Grade Nine       *Public awanos            *Phame in by school staring   41 plsoe for all
campaig by 1994           in 1995                   Juior high
ODevelop detailed RPP for    Permit out-of-school    prgms competmer
test daveopment           peso  to sit certlying
*Contmct tet development   c     subtets (Engls
Math) begning 199S
Jsc                  "Public awareness          Eliminate furh  sbjects   *Eliminatie
campaign by 1994          ted by HEART
BEliminate low-volume
- sbje st s and subects
.; __________  tested by HELART                                                _
ssc                 OPublic awareness          "'Eliminate further subjects   *Efiminate ali but
campaig by 1994           teed by HEART              academic subtests
*Eliminate low-volume
sujects and object tsted
by HEART
Vocational!         "E11minate subjects tsbted    *B nlint fthr slocs     Eiminate entirely
Tlchnical Exam      by HEART                   tetd by HEART
Convet to           "Write RPP for chnical       stall ne  equipnt and    *AIl reisfttio and
COMPuteas d                                    tran persrel on hardwar   reportIng done via
regitai  aed.       "Devise pln for conveion  and softwar                conpute
and  8poi__
ntrate NAP and      Work with 1DB and USAID                                 eae   all sting
PEAP PIUs into      to find m_ns to integrto                              opeato  fully
Student A      t    NAP, PEAP and Sudent
uni tt



Annex 8
JAMAICA
Redbn of Socondary Educaton Projec
.__         k ,'-
_W~~~~~~~~~ mao .uii  urn   Z_tmni E  SU
Wm_UNIONS 0m                                                                     I= 1   mm mm            bab _1  In
-In3(~NmU~ _t _.him ._  .gub  IimU|  -l~                       gmv- S 51).                       IMtbI &rmI| ~k1.1SL
,_:                                                                                 a                           I-  1*  _ 
lowerA~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  s  n_Ib ox  ILI
|  1        1 ut_l  I        ~      kw
e 1 _: 1 . _L_ ß " _Xb#_^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d*dfts 6$W
" lllbtbbt^S*^                                   ' n~oh



-64_                             A==x 9
-64-                 Vane 1 of 3
The Reform of Secondary Education
(Project R.O.S.E.)
First Phase -Grades 7 - 9
WHAT IS THE REFORIM OF SECOCNDARY EDUCATION?
The Reform is a rationalization that will lead to improvements In
secondary education for all students in Grades 7 - 9 (first phase)
and in the second phase, for students In grades 10 and 11.
WHY IS THE REFORM NEEDED?
1?y Access
The Reform is necessary because we need to educate all our
children at least to the end of Grade 9.
190 Quality
This education must be of higher quality than at present,
and it must be delivered In more efficient ways.
sP Equity
We must remove those disparities in the system which
deprive many of our children of access to quality education.
WHAT FORM WILL IT TAKE?
'80  Evey year a number of schools wl be selected for the introducion of tie new
cwrlculum. In some case, new schools will be bullL in other cases, after a needs
assessment, buildings will be extended and / or re-furbished.
IS   Additional schools which do not wish to wait to be selected, may opt to become a
pan of the Reform as Voluntr Schools.
4wO  Participating schools whh teacthe new cuiculum will cider be Anlor High
Schools or have Junior high departments
OOVERNMBNT OP JAMAICA  I WoRLD SA$K
R&fORIM OF SICONDARY EDUCATIO$ (R.O.S.E.)



-65-                          Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
4     There will be one natonal curriculum for al1 students in grades 7 - 9. It wil
eventualy be tauight in every ldnd of secondazy school. The core curriculun will
consist of six subjects:
*  Language ArS      Mathemadts      *  Science   *  Social Studies
with the new subjects: Career Education and Resource & Tecbnology.
'9J 'The content of the curriculum will be the same for all students: the learning
activities, however, will vary, to suit their differing levels of abiity.
48/  Relevant Instructional materlals, textoks and HbrAry books will be available for
students.
Ft Teachers will be urained to teach the new curriculum, both In pre-service and In-
service courses.
A new Grade 9 Test will be put in place. It will be based on the new curTiculum and
will measure sLudents" achievement.
HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE?
The first phase of the reform will run from 1993-1998.
WHAT RESULTS ARE EXPECTED?
4t0   By e end of the frs phes 50A1 Ae schools and 72 Seconda Schools will
have benefitted. (Tis figue w  be higher, as schools volunteer to join the
reorm.)
∂4∞   5,400 teachers will have received training.
'a'  60,000 students will have benefitted from the new programMe. They will have
axpeienced the same cuiculum and te wiDl be a measurable Improvement in
literacy. numeracy and other skdls.
1/   'he Reform aims to produce school-leav  who can go on to further formal
education, or who can be trained or employed.At the end of Grade 9, students will
either enter an upper secondary Grade 10-11 programme, leave school and go into a
non-format training programme, find employment or make an opportunitY for sdf-
employment.
ROVBR.u oENT OF JAMAICA  I WORL  SANM
ftIPoRm or S3coKPAttY UDUCAflOW (R.@.a.R.)



-66-                              Annex 4
.                    1ag. 3 of 3
WHAT OTHER STRATEGIES HAVE BEEN CONSIDERED?
1M   Make t present system more efficient by paying more atention to supervision.
lTs would not create moreplaces or reduce inequality.
4/   Provide moe high school places, by re-classifying more Secondary Schools as
Comprehensive High Schools. ThA is apart of he present strategy, and will
condn.e -but this alone would &Wll kee ablost half of Jamaica s Grades 7- 9
sadents ih AU Age schoos. Ta would not get rid of the inequalities and
inefficiencies in the systenL
/*   Put more High Schools on the shift sysem l allow larger classes in High Schools.
T* soludon would aLto allow more cildren to have a High School education, bat
would sdl leave alost halfoflanmaia's Crades 7 - 9 student in AR Age schools.
Thx would not get r-id of the mequaldes and inefficiencies in the systenm
4y   Impove the All Age Schools. 77Ts would releve the most disadvantaged group but
would not improve quality orefficdency in the otherschool.
'y   Extend the primary school to Grade 8 or Grade 9. This wouldpartialy address the
problkm of access.
4$ Create a Junior High School or Deparment in every school which has Grade 7 - 9
students and offers the common core curiculum. This strategy was selected
because is directly addresses aRl the problems  iihereat in the system.
You at invited to send your comments on the proposed reform to-
The Permanent Secretry,
Milsty of Educadon
2, Nadonal Heroes Circe
P.O.Box 498
Kingston
lese Marl your letter:
Attention: National Coordinator, Re-form of $econdlar Education.
GOVERNSMENT oF JAMAICA  I WORLD BANK
REPORM OP S3COVDARY EDUCATION (R.O.S.3.)



-67-                            Annex 10
Page I of S
JAMAICA
EalAatz of the Reform of Sodar      d
1.    The Jamaican Reform  of Secondary Education (ROSE) project is a multifaceted and
comprehensive progrm designed to improve the access, equity, and quality of education for all students
at grades seven to nine. The ultimate indicators for program success (e.g., student matriculation rates
in upper secondary and vocational programs, students' successful performance in those programs,
students' success in securing and succeeding in meaningful work placemes, etc.), however, cannot be
measured for five or more years. In the meantime, key indicators or prerequisites bmown to be associated
with the above outcomes have been identified and can be objectively measured to provide program
developers and decision-makers with interim data to guwde any needed modifications and future planning
for the national implementation stra. The proposed project therefore includes a subcomponent to
cariy out an impat _evaati  study which is designed to provide for the ongoing collection and
analysis of objecfive data, both formative and summaive, to determine how well the reform is meetng
its goals of improving the access, equity, and quality of educational programs at grades 7-9. The central
issue which this study addresses is whether the money and effort expended on the reform significantly
improve access, equity, and qualiy of education for students at grades 7-9, especially those from All Age
Scool populations.
2.    Evaluation and monitoring data must be collected on a regular basis at all participating sites
dur-ig the first five-year phase of the reform. A carelly deigned impact evaluation study based on a
ve sample of project and comparison schools will also examine the instructional program in
greaer deil (mcluding, teher instructional methods, student behaviors and interactions, lesson
content). The data will permit documenton of the similarities and differences in outcomes among
project, voluntary, and their msaWe comparison sites. Data collected will include baseline and annual
nges measured in school contexts, program inputs, implementationprocesses, and products (outcomes
for students, teachers and community). In addition to qua-itativ outcomes, qualitative data will also
be collected through sanrdid observations, interviews, and surveys to document the program's impact
as perceived by students, teachers, administrators, parents, and community. The impact evaluation data,
smmaizd on an annual basis, will enable program developers, teacher trainers, and policy-makers to
review and revise the program componens on an objective basis.
3.    Evaluaton Dei. As the currcula reform moves from the pilot stage (World Bank I) to
broader national implementtion, a rigorous and stuctured evaluation design is necessay to provide
credible evidence of the program's strengths and weaknesses. Te evaluation design can provide both
baseline and comparison data that will permit a careful assessmnt of the overall impact of R.O.S.E. and
identify which variables across sites are most frequenty or most stongly associated with significan
incre  in sudet learning and changes in teacher behaviors.
4.    The design requires data collection at project schools and at comparison schools matched to a
repres ive sample of project ad voluntary school parcipan. Ie data will be collected using four
inter-reed approaches, which taken toger will provide a comprehewsive picture of the scope and
depth of the program's impact. lhe four approaches wil permit an evaluation that covers the context,
inputs, processes, and products of the reform and permit comparison among different school types and
to non-projea sites over time. Ihe four main data sets are:



-68-                              Annex 10
Page 2 of 5
(a)     Ine dam to domen the preproject contex at all project and comparison sites,
Including background data on school trends (   years, where possible) in attendance,
percet pass rates on standarded ems, estmated proportions of non-, low, average,
and advanced readers, etc.). Baseline data wll also be important for matching pottial
compais  sites to project sites.
(b)    Pre- ad          of student learning in six content areas. Annua September and May
tests at each grade level, 7-9, will be adminstred using project-developed instume
untl new Grade 9 and 6 achvem tests are avaflable.
(c)    Suc                 of lessons by a trained independent team of observe  using
standardized forms wDll be conducted in a sample of project and comparison stes.
Classes will be observed on a pre-project and annua basis. Observations will documen
2-3 consecutive lessons In each content area, noting istuctional methods and styles,
conten, teacher-studeint  eractions, student behaviors, etc. Intrviews with teachers and
principas will also be conducted.
(d)    Swc stdies  ll be contracted to address special questions or unique situations not
flly addressed by the impact stdy. Over the 5-year duraton of the project, issues wil
aso undubtedly arise in areas not anticipated at this fime. A special study component
wi permik eambiaon of such issues.
S.                                                        Alnh gf Poica an Conalm Schools for  Although all project schools should
be monitored, it is not ncesary nor finan y prudent to cry out the same level of evaluation at al
project sites. For the purposes of this impact evaluaion it is desirable to include only project schools
fom th piot years and first three project years. Ihe sample should include schools r n of
the variety of secondary schools in the country tha are epected to use the common core curiculum (i.e.,
All Age, New Secondary, Comprehensive, and High School). The sample should rpreset the varity
of schools by enrollment size and seting (i.e., urban, ural and remote).
6.    The following table shows the planned phase-in of all project and voluntary sites and the Impact
evauaion sample of project, voluntary, and compaison sites.
_______    Pflots    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Yar 4  Year S  Total
Total Project   11      22      11       10      16       13      83
Voluntay      -         5+      5+       5+       q-+    5+       25+
Project       4         S       6        5            -           20
Sample
Vol-uny       -         -       2        1                        3
Sample                                         .                     -
Comparison               5     8        6                        19



-69-                            Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
7.    The participation rates by voluntary schools (assumed to be mosly high schools) are estimated
and reflect the lowest conse¢vative projections by the MOEC. There may need to be minor re-
adjustment in the fina distibution of sites, but the basic framework above reflects the recommended
scope for the in-depth impact study.
8.    Each year's cohort of project schools Is expected to begin the project withi different levels of
program inputs due to the schedule for the provision of the different levels of textbooks (Foundation
Levels 1 and 2 by year 2, and Normative and Enriched Levels by year 3) and completion dates for
construction or other building improvements. Thus, it is Important to carefully document baseline and
aanual changes in contexts, inputs, processes, and products. Over the three and four year period of
participation (especially for the init  project sites), a successful project should yield consistent trends
despite diffeirencs among the phasin of inputs for eah successive cohort.
9.    Since pilot sites wfll have been operational for one to two years before the reform, it is too late
to idnify appropriate comparison sites. Nonetheless, it is recommended that a sample of pilot sites
participate in the observations to provide preliminary data on expected and unexpected outcomes and
pott  barriers to successfu implemenion.
SlW Studies. Special studies will be conducted to address specific emerging issues that may
not be fully addressed in the impact study. Some potentdal topics to be considered include:
- ethographic case study at two or ihree schools to more fully document and examine the stages
of the new curriculum implementaion;
- issues of educational refbrm in small, isolated All Age schools through distance education;
- program chaNccs or strategis that have had positive impact on studelt attendance;
- redative cost-ffectns   of selected inputs;
- impact of the project for speci populations such as special education.
10. In= - Evaluant InaMM. The impact evaluation is designed to measure changes in the
conext and inputs at schools, growth in student learning, and changes in instuctional content and
methodology. All three instruments (aeine nvemty, prelpost tests and observations) would be
adminte  at project and compaison schools identified in the preceding design. In addition, because
of their low cost, relive to te observations, te inventory and pre/post-tests can be collected for al
othr project sites at least throu yea four.
A. Budim Data Invey
11. I          A standadized inventoy checklist serves severa purposes: To detmine baseine
conditions at project and comparon schools; to provide a data base for planning and seting targets or
minimm  stadards; and when re-dministered in subsequent years, as a barometer of change. To the
extent possible duplication of data collection should be minimized, such that a common data base be
eslid to permit access to the daa thrugh an MIS database.



-70-                            Annex 10
Page 4 of 5
12.     neiont. Development entails a review of existing forms from various sources (e.g.,
curriculum  depatal surveys, the Survey of Livg Conditions, school mapping project).
Modificaion of existn forms, or development of a new composite instrument, should be field tested.
The insument should be objective and allow for evenal MIS data entry. Appropriate items from the
educational support materials list developed by a the curricum unit also need to be incorporaed.
13.   Adniaio. For the purposes of the evaluation the inventory should be admistered prior
to project involvement and again during year 4 of the project. The inventory should not require more
than one day on-site to administer by a regional or other educaional officer who has been trained on its
use. A one-day training session should be conducted once a year prior to January.
B. Isnhitg
14. The World Bank IV project developed preJpust-tests for the grade seven curriculum in six subject
aeas (language arts, mathematics, social studies, science, reoue & technology, and career education).
Ptrelpost-test instuments for grades 8 and 9 should also be developed as the curriculum for those grdes
is completed. The win-house" grade 7 tests clearly vary in psychometric quality and could be improved
with some technical assistance. Ultimately, they should be expected to have a fairly high intrinsic level
of conte  validity since will have been developed by the same curiculum officers who are developing
the curriculum.
15.   The exam raionalization component is developing a new grade 9 exam which should be ready
for pilot use during the third or fourth year of the reform. Achievement diherences on the new grade
9 test by project and comparison students will ultimay be an important indicator of the impact of the
reform on sudent learning. In the meantime, it is difficult to justify extensiv cxpndiures on deveoping
new  ntuments. lherefore, grade-specific pre/post tts developed by the curic m would be the best
iterim indicator of stdent learning. Existig istru   should be reviewed and revised with the
assstance of a local consultat who is an experienced psychometrician.
16.               . The tests should continue to be administered under the supersion of an
education officer at all project and comparison sites each Seember and May. The evaluation staff will
need to inservice regional officers. Students should be randomly assipW to tae two of the six subject
area tests (only one at schools witb more than two streams). At post-test the students should tae the
same subject area tests at they took for a pre-teso
C. Stred
17.   Purose. To measue Instructional and learning environment changes based on objective
standarded instments and procedures.  Comparison sies would be evaluated using same the
observationinumean and schedules. Obseration periods consist of ree or at leat two consecutive
days or presentations of a teacher's lessons in each curicula area. This provides teachers a grater
opportunity to demonstrate their breadft and depth of teang, and their ability to follow-through with
lessons. Observatious of at least two consecaudve lessons also reduces the likelihood of observing only
the very best or very worst lessons by teacher. Separate observations are recorded all six main subjects.
Career Education is observed and evaluated within the context of each of the other five subjects.



-71-                            Annex 10
Page 5 of 5
Photographic documentation of the school and classoom context should also be done on a pre-project
and annual basis.
18.   Develp     . An extern  consultant should be contacted to work with R.O.S.E. curriculum
staff to develop a standardized objective observation isument. In order to collect pre-project data at
an initial set of 10 sites between March and May 1993, instrument development and training should begin
by January 1993.
19.   TIanjng. A team of 648 obsevers should be identified and contracted as local consultants by the
end of January, 1993. Ihe types of people appropriate for the team include teachers (on leave or redred),
staff and/or advanced students at teacher training colleges, graduate students
at UWI. These team members would be further supported in traning by six curriculum or other education
officers. All team members would participate in a one-week training session coordinated by the exten
consultant. Each observer is responsible eiter for at least two curriculum areas (excluding career
education which should be infused into the other curricular areas) or for one curricular area and for
interviewing and recording information on the overall school-wide Impact. Each year the training would
be repeated. Begining in 1993-94 three teams of six observers (18 people) will be needed to cover all
sites.
20.   Admsn. A team of trained observers records objecdve observations of actual lessons
(including content, methods, sudent involvement, studentteacer interaction, etc.); collect information
on site conditions and leaning enviroment; and conduct brief interviews with teachers, adminisrors,
and other stakeholders. The observations would repeated annually during the same period. To address
issues of reliabiLty of    _v  each lesson would be observed by a pair of obsers. Thus, 5-6
people would be needed per site. All subject areas may not be taught avery day, so separate team
member schedules may be needed for each site.
D. Data A       ls      1:dg.
21.   The data collected with all ftree of the above iuments, including aendance data, will need
to be entered into a conmutized database. Sudent responses to test items should also be key entered
and scored by computer. Descriptive and analytical summaries can be generated. Evenotualy with a
sufficit data base after the first five years, outoome m ues can be analyzed as a function of various
configutations of school inputs and changes in inputs. Infeetil tests of significance should be
conducted to measure project-comparison group diffrences. Reports describing the deveopmeat,
adminision, and anmual results for each set of insuments will be required on an annual basis. The
reports should be prepared by each September and be presented at the annual review conference on the
project.



-72-                              Annex 11
Page l of 5
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education Project
I.           The Social Policy Anayis Component rents a balced approach to improve socil
polic anaysis capacity in the HRDP Byst. ITh proposa has fou places of intarvention:
1 It establishes a Sodal Poicy Analysis Unit at PIOI to build  stuonal linkages, dismint
infomton,  od        aing, cany out ihouse aalysis, and conact additional research a needed;
ii) the UIe mnkNs  of Health, Educaion, and Labour, Welfre and Sport wil participate In the
defnition of a program of social policy reseach, benefit from poliy-maker and Staff seMins to upgrado
thi respective policy andysiB skills, and the Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sport will bnefit ftom
n aement of Is social policy analysis capacity and needs and a small additional amount of technical
ssstance for capaciq upgrading;
ii at the Universiy of the Wt Indes, faculty-upgrading courses will be offered in policy analysis
methods, curriculum will upgraded in Similar graduate courses to be taught pennanendy, fellowships in
policy anaysi will be ofeed, and a progrm of social policy rarch eated jointly between
goveent and the univrst will be caiet out; aM. a Data Base will be established at the Instite of
Socia and Economic Research (ISER); and
iv) support for SrATIN's Survey of Lving Conditions progrm will be included.
2.           lmu. Jamaica fs a veryl o        a set of social pclicy questos. IT  extoesve
coverg of its social svies means tha the agenda has moved on from the analytically simpler problems
of building sch  and didics to the analytically more comple iss  of how to improve teir quaity
and efficiency in an eremey tght fl situation   T   ernmet's umbrdlin social policy vehicle,
he Human Reources Development Program (HRDP), iude actions to reform lower secondary
education, ice  cost recovery in halb and education, increase the prate sector provision of social
sevies, im         management efficiency, decentraie auority, and improve t  targetng of welfare
progrms. All of the  e diffict rfoms tat sod benefit from quan titativ        of te costs
and beneits of diff t options.
3.           The ancies involved in the HRDP social policy refrms have little or no inhous
capacity to cary out or manage sound policy studies to hirm their decisions. Funds for such stdies
are fnd in an ad hoc manme, often from ex ay finced projects. These are usually tied to larg
studies deined yes i advamn  and seving only the projects' narrow ineests and card out by
(fiqently foreign). Specific decisions are Inormed, with th  ad hoc wAdies, but te
undlyin deficdes in the capacy to ientify, manage or perform policy sudies are not rmed
and  e  is Lite flbility to  spond to new policy priorites.  rermore,t he lack of gve
Input in defining ad suevisig the sudies freuenty lowers their reevance, the ministries' stake in
m            eand, a_ y, hdr im[NM



ON~ ~  4I                         81
It A
inI'
lii   ~1tI1iiiCjS



-74-                     Annex 11
Page 3 of 5
w)    Research and Analysis. The Unit would perform  wutine analysis of the IBMS and SLC data,
coordinate effbrts to enhanc their quality and timiness, identify other data of relevance,
induding financa data and integate them wihi the other sources.
v)    Contact Additional Reseach a Needed. The Unit will work with the line ministries to develop
tems of reference for stdies to be cowtracted out, provide counterpart staff to the contactos,
and provide counterparts to the UWI-executed agenda of research.
7.           Line Miidries. The line ministries will participate in the network activities coordinated
by the HRDP Social Policy Development Unit. Aside from their voice in setting the agenda of social
policy analysis, linkage of technical staff in the line m' 4tries will also benefit from three activities:
i)    In-service       in research methodology and social policy analysis for reearch staff in the
respective information or research units of the ministries;
ii)    Policy-maker seminars to enhance the capacity of socia sector managers to frme policy
questions and integrate results of policy analysis into their decision-making;
iii)    Tnil assistance to MLWS to assess its capacity for policy anaysis and to recommend options
for how to improve it needs and begin to implement recommendaons.
8.           University of the West Indies. The project will support five activities:
i)    Paut  Urding. In-country courses will be sponsored in advanced quanttative methods
suitable for social policy analysis in order to upgrade faculty skills. The first two of the six
ideified coursese will be taught by local staff. Pour courses will be provided by staff of an
ovseas university under a single technical assistance package.
hi)    igriclum. Rneo=.  he visiting scholars will assist local faculty in developing new
courses or in upgradig existg curses to include the eements taught in the faculty upgrding
courses.
ill)    Grauate Fellowsl   . Graduate felowships wil be provided to stude  with a co on
in reseach methodology and social policy analysis. Mmh fellowship stude  wil be  pected to
take the methods courses that wil benefit from curculum development, but wil receive degrees
from their respective disciplinary programs.
iv)         Th e n  project will support a pipeine of research on HRDP topics, to be manged by the
Social Policy Analysis Unit in PIOJ. Various facuties and the Institut for Social and Eoonomic
Research (ISER) will be involved in carying out the research
'As Fp_* I idemtfd4 do sit couXBe8 aue in_aductozy    e Aisdos, voqmw appiadons, t-omb diud5
mudvnda bAtesoUz sosid poby _ayb loch_qe. and mwv.y deeig.



-75.                      Annex 11
Page 4 of 5
v)    IS    Dat Bak  A Data Bonk will be established at ISER for the use of resrchers engaged
in e HRDP research agenda as well as the faculty and studenu involved in the first and
ubsequent offinags of upgraded courses. A network of hardware, supporting software and
supplies, and a progrmmer are to I;e supported by the project.
9.           Survey of Lii  Conditions. Support for STATIN's implematon of the Survey of
Living Conditions (SLC) will be provided. A small unit of staff (1 programmer, 2 statsdcians, 1
stasical a    nt) dedicated to the SLC should alleviate past problems with poor timeliness and
imperections in quality. The bulk of the work wil stil rely on STATINs general instituonal capacity,
but the key managet and analysis decisions will be concentrated in a unit responsible only for the
SLC. The incremenl cost of the survey field work, printg, etc. will be supported.
10.          SuainahUky. The need for social policy analysis is contmua but the project, of course,
is for a defined life. It should, however, generate a sustainable impact due to several of its design
feahtres. First, the training (fculty semis, curriculum dvelopment, policy-maker seminars, and line
minstry staff-pgrading) will build capacity that should have a life after the project. The recurrent cost
of the HRDP Social Policy Development Unit in PIOJ and the SLC Unit in STATIN will be absorbed
by OOJ grdually over the life of the project so thatOtey can be supported aterwards. The mechaisms
for insitution  likge will not require additional financing.
I1.          Moable Idicator. The ultimate goal of the Social Policy Analysis Compone  is
to improve socia policy decisions by improving the empirical analysis that informs thm   Jamaica's
social sector budget runs on the order of US$400 million per year. If the social policy analysis generaed
under the project can lead to improvemedns in the efficiency of those funds, it will have been justified.
This is, admitedly, a intangible impact tt defis meaurement The monitorable indicators shown in
Annex 17 are therefore process indicators. They can show whether analysis is geneaed and courses
offered at UWI, but not their quaity or impact  The mid-term review will include a qualitative
assessment of whether policy-makers have deemed the studies timely and useful and of the studies
technic  quWity.



46.-                            Annex 1I1
Page 5 of 5
HRDP SECRETARIAT
Secrearit Director
|MPnitoring Unit                                a
Program Manager                        Policy Development Manager
Financial Manager                      Socio-Economic Analyst
Accountant                             Socio-Economic Analyst
Education Planner                      SLC/IBMS Coordinator
Health Planner                         Programmer



RetonJ of SeewaSury Edueatlan ProJect
Project Cost SuMsry
JiS                             USS                          X Total
, _................   ...........................  X Foeign                    ase
Local  Forefgn    Total        Local Foreign   Total    Exchae          Costs
A   1. SCXondary mRoftS          33310.3   6245.2  41555.5        1648.3   358.S  1806.8          19.8       5.5
2. OSE Tr.inls9               111S27.0    133.  1116640.8       4849.0      S.8  4854.8          0.1      14.8
3. Ed. Slupoot MaterIats       10121.7  38409.1  48530.8          40.1  1670.0  2110.0           79.1      6.4
4. Textbooks                    6742.1  19240.7  2S962.7         293.1   836.6  1129.?           74.1       3.5
S. infrastructure             227822 2  135524.8 363547.0       9905.3  5892.4  15797.7         37.3      48.3
6. lppr Secondry Strategy    2S300.0         0.0  25300.0       1100.0      0.0  1100.0           0.0      3.4
...... ..........._ ...............................   ........... ............ ........................  ....................
Sub-Totat                         414823.4 201553.4  416376.8    16035.8  6743.2 26799.0             32.7     61.9
S . El. a #int. Strengthen.
1. Exam Rattlonaliatlon         6076.1   1222.8  18#8.9          264.2   534.5   798.6          66.9       2.4
2. RCSE  umbgsmnt              17662.7   6010.6  23673.3         767.9   261.3  1029.3           25.4      3.1
3. Puilc If. reness CasIgF n    S514.3       0.0   5514.3        239.8      0.0   239.8           0.0      0.7
4. ON bivatfin                  689S.3   3361.9  122M8.2         388.1   14.2   534.3            27.4       1.6
S. RCSE _ha  11 Prepratlon    6900.0         0.0   6900.0        300.0      0.0   300.0          0.0       0.9
............. ...........................,........... .............................. ,   .................... ..........  .................... 
Str-Total                          45079.3  21665.3  66744.7        1960.0   942.0  2901.9           32.5      8.9
C . Sc¢lal Policy Analysis
1. Policy Lalysis IMit         31S20.2   4770.2  36290.4        1370.4   207.4  15W.8            13.1      4.8
2.                    Indfsersty of Vest Inc7r  7040.3   9631.2  16671.5  306.1   418.7   724.8  57.8      2.2
3. Lin. NIndtes lh*mg.          1459.0   1426.0   308S.0          n.1    62.0   134.1            4.2        0.4                                              -
4. 8tATO                        7898.7   5333.2  13ZS2.0         343.4   232.7   576.2           40.4       1.8                                              -
Sub-total                          48118.2  21180.7  6998.9         2092.1   920.9  3013.0          30.6       9.2
Total 8ASELI* E COStS             5020.9 244399.5  52420.4    22087.9  10626.1  32713.9            32.5      100.0
Phystcal Contingenciles         20262.1  14333.0  34595.1         881.0   623.2  1504.1          41.4       4.6
Prfce Contingencies            131781.7  18118.7  149900.4       5729.6   787.8  6517.4           12.1      19.9
Tcol PROJECtS COSTS               6"0064.6  278851.2 93691S.8    23698.5  12037.0 40735.5           29.5    124.5
~~~~~~~~~~~...................................                                   ......
matues Scaled by 1000.0- mj1/1993 17s39



Jssaca
Reform of Secondary Education Project
Projects Ccqowents by YTor
Totals including Contingencies                                  Totals Including Contingencies
in                                                               USS
93194    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98        Totat        93/94    94/95    95/96    96197    97/98        Totat
A. Secondary Refom Support
1. Camion Curiculum              7125.5   7941.7  15907.2  13066.3   8194.3  52235.0            309.8    345.3    691.6    568.1    356.3   2271.1
2. Rn0E Training                35459.8  19071.2  31748.6  28357.0  29737.6  144374.2           tS41.7    829.2   1380.4   1232.9   129M.9   6277.1
3. Ed. Support Materials        14959.8  10775.5  15425.3   9039.1   sm.s  55975.2               650.4    468.5    670.7    393.0    251.1   2433.7
4. Testbooks                     1436.8  10609.8   7563.3   7803.1   2561.7  30054.7              62.5    46t.3    328.8    342.7    111.4   1306.7
S. Infrastructure               117058.2  126342.0  130877.0  65471.6  15879.9 45S628.6         5089.5   5493.1   5690.3   2846.6    690.4  19109.9
6. Uwer Secondary Strategy       247n.5   27m7.2   8946.7   9394.0   9863.8  334S4.3             107.5    120.7    389.0    408.4    428.9   1454.5
,............................................. .......................   ....... ............. ......... ................. .............................
Sib-Total                           178512.6   M517.4  210468.2  133211.1  72012.7  m722.0          7761.4    M8.1   9150.8   S791.8   3131.0  33553.1
I. vsta. 6 11nt. Strengthen.
I. ESf Rat. St zatihen           9309.3   1660.3   2035.3   5406.3   2561.3  20972.?             404.8     72.2      88.S    23S.1    111.4    911.9
2. ROSE  _anagmet                8231.7   6199.4   4598.3   4826.6  s566.2  28922.1              357.9    269.5    199.9    209.9    220.3   1257.5
3. P"lic sar   C{aa              1S08.3    946.9   13S9.3   1635.3   1540.4   6990.2              65.6     41.2      59.1      71.1      67.0    303.9
4. ROSE Evaluctien               2514.8   3049.2   3580.5   3546.3   2561.4  15252.2             109.3    132.6    155.7    154.2    111.4    663.1
5. ROSE  hase II Preparmaton        0.0       0.0       0.0   4697.0   4931.9   9628.9             0.0       0.0       0.0    204.2    214.4    418.6
...................... .......................................   ...... ,,........... ...................... ... .... ... ..........
SubTotal                            21564.2  11855.8  11573.4  20111.5  16661.2  81766.1             937.6    S15.5    503.2    874.4    724.4   3555.0
C. soclal Potficy Analyils
1. Polley Analysis Uint          8266.8   9102.6   9037.S   9483.0   9544.3  45434.3             3S9.4    395.8    392.9    412.3    415.0   1975.4
2. Uhfvesity of Vast Indies      7856.6   S661.8   1744.0   1692.9   1775.5  1873.8              341.6    246.2       ?5.8     73.6      77.2    814.4
3. Line NlirsIstrles Lnkage      1501.0   1125.1       0.0       0.0    878.1   3504.2           65.3      48.9       0.0       0.0     38.2    152.4
4. STAtIN                        3611.6   4026.?   2691.1   2757.9   2671.1  15758.5             157.0    175.1    117.0    119.9    116.1    685.2
.........................................................................................   ....... ........   .............................................................
SuTotal                             21236.1  19916.2  13472.6  13933.9    4469.0  83427.7            923.3    865.9    585.8    605.8    646.S   327.3
....................................... ...............................   .............................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS               221313.0  209289.S  235514.1  167256.4  103542.9  936915.8       9622.3   9099.5  10239.7   7272.0   4S01.9  40735.S
Valses Scaled by 1000.0 1/21/1993 17:39
£



Janice
Reform of        EdeLndry Uiatien ProJect
tots Isuludiw cttswmsls                                   Totals tlnttuL6n Contingencies
., ....................................................    ....... .   ..............  ---------------    ----........*  
9/94    9        95                 7       Ttl         9/94    94/95    95/96    96/9?    97M96    Tot.
t. in"IHEST/E MOsR
....................
A. T fnlr5Jck Cep
1. Owrues                    2418.0   1171.4   1322.5   702.7    512.0   6126.6       105.1    50.9    57.5       30.6    22.3    266.4
2. Local                     8433.3  15694.8  8397.7  24338.3  25370.8  9724.9        366.7   662.4   1017.3   1058.2   1103.1   4227.6
SubrTotal                      10O51.3  1666.2  24720.2  2S041.0  2s882.8 103361.5       471.8    733.3  1074.8   1088.7   1125.3   4494.0
B. Fwnlture                     8943.2  9195.7  13300.9  8276.0   842.5  40561.3         388.8    399.9   578.3   359.8    36.6   1763.5
C. EqwIg.bnt                   18678.3  10948.7  12796.5  7267.3   3571.9  s3262.8       812.1    476.0    556.4    316.0   1SS.3   2315.8
0. Vbclel,s                      570.4     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    570.4        24.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    24.0
E. Reecurc Nmttats              1896.0   2611.9   56.8   6435.5   1506.6  17886.8         82.5    113.6    236.4    279.8    65.4    77.7
F. Boos                         1116.8  4897.3   65.0   6859.4   1940.1  21384.5          48.6    212.9    285.7    29.2    84.4   929.8
1. no Censtruc. Ctr. Sd.        0.0  234.3  64886.8       0.0      0.0  8921.2          0.0   1060.2   2521.2      0.0      0.0  3881.4
2. ExteAVefrb. Ctr . Sb.    85113.6  773m.6  217U.9  3201.2         0.0 221622.3     3613.6  3379.6   1250.6  1391.9        0.0   9635.8
3. Befurwbisun Suecnd.Sch.    8984.5     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   898S.5      390.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    390.6
4. fufb. All Age _hools         0.0      0.0  11153.6  11659.1      0.0  22812.7        0.0      0.0   484.9    506.9       0.0    991.9
S. PhysIcalt UWa              133.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   133.1         S.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      5.8
lab-Total                      9m1.2 102116.0 104.4   3672.3          0.0 342823.9      4010.1   4439,8   4556.7   1898.8      0.0  14905.4
a. lehnfil Assistance
1. Local CWWultant          52101.1  28922.9  27661.4  17151.5  14930.7 140767.6     2265.3   1257.5   1202.7   745.7   649.2   6120.3
2. jpatifate Cnsltant       19053.0  7058.5   1058.0  434.9   1219.0  33433.5         828.4    341.7    46.0    184.6    53.0   1453.6          '0
.;.....................................................   ............ ................................................. I
lab-tal                        71154.2  36781.4  28719.4  21396.4  16149.8 174201.1     3093.7   1599.2   1248.7   930.3    702.2   7574.0
1. StuIes                      3m8.   S554.S   349.4   8329.4   8745.9  29797.9          161.2   241.5    150.4    362.1    380.3  1295.6
J. PItot Progre                   0.0      0.0   8946.7  9394.0   9863.8  28204.5          0.0      0.0    369.0    408.4   428.9   1226.3
K. Adsinistratflv Supprt         107.5    120.7    129.7     0.0      0.0    357.9         4.7      5.2      5.6     0.0      0.0     15.6
Total INWITEIIT tOSJS         209259.6 189095.3 208.0 U367t.4  66501.2 812412.6         9098.2   8221.5   9082.0   392.2   2978.3  35322.3
It. RidT0g1
...................
A.  eration & Mlatwace
1. EqalS.nt                   645.9   869.6   96.3   102.8   1112.1   453.7            28.1    37.8    42.8    4S.3    48.4    202.3
2. OffIce Ssptl1eUtilties    5W33.0   2817.5  3094.2   2607.4   2067.4  13099.        110.1    122.5    134.5   113.4    89.0   569.3
3. 9ultdinp                     0.0   2999.4   S287.9  8528.3  12544.8  29560.3         0.0   t30.4    229.9   370.8   545.4   1276.5
4. Vehicles                   119.1    131.9    140.7   14.4    154.5   693.6           5.2      5.7      6.1      6.4      6.7    30.2
SubTotal                        3298.0   6818.3  9506.1  12326.0  11538.7  47807.1       143.4   296.4   413.3   535.9   689.5   2078.6  
S. Canmicatlons/Tre.uport       890.5   1464.5   2053.5   1940.0   1741.S   8089.9        38.7    63.7    89.3    84.3    75.7   351.7
C. Incrmantal Staff            5264.5   8098.6  10819.7  11750.6  12512.0  48445.3      228.9   332.1   470.4    510.9   544.0   2106.3
0. Brent 0.0                              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
E. MaterIts                     113.4   1997.9   2236.6   2422.7  2625.3  10595.8         57.1    86.9    97.2    105.3    114.1   460.7
F. SIC Field Cests              1087.9   1222.0   1312.2   1377.8   1446.7  646.6        47.3    53.1    57.1       59.9    62.9   280.3
6. Contract Staf                  0.0   366.4    487.0   346.0   627.1   2046.5            0.0    16.8    21.2    23.7    27.3    89.0
N. Softro Leas                   199.1    206.5    214.1    222.0   230.3   1072.0        8.7       9.0     9.3      9.7    10.0    46.6
T*atal RIfRIT COSTS            12053.4  20194.1  2629.1  30585.0  3541.6 124S03.3        524.1    878.0   1157.8   1329.8   1523.5   5413.2
Totl PROJECT COSTS            221313.0 2092W.5 8554.1  167256.4 103542.9 936915.        922.3   9099.5  1089.7   7272.0   4501.9  40ns.5
u  Saedby   0.......................................................................................................................0 1   17:39



Jeemmic
Reform of Seoduy lEtten Project
Sksmory Acoamu by Project caspmnent
Ed.                                                                                               w IC  36  Uhfwe l
CO O                                            ftncSrrt  S   E      lts       ROSE AaWu  IO     Ps  St   Ml           ty of
t ttROl Titotbooek  Infrastr     v     Itlomt  _um.u           a    Ealuatf  Prtp        AnalysTs   wet
*    TrelmIfig     U         S      istur    Srategy   iztIen    at    cpi             on        ian               InIt  dies
1. _w csm
....................
A. tranlW/btebap
1. Oversees                       2599.0       0.0       0.0     14.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    10.0        0.0   1127.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
2. Local                           117.6  65066.2        0.0     8.4        0.0       0.0       0.0    400.0       0.0    13.8         0.0   1000.0    5.0
....................                ......           ........ . ..                            ------------------
S-total                           3716.6  668.2          0.0    103.6       0.0       0.0       0.0 82.0           0.0   30.8          0.0   1000.0   2∞.0
8. Uwnlture                           0.0       0.0   6050.5       0.0  281152.7       0.0       0.0    121.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
C. 5wj1_nt                          276.0       0.0  397.s         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0   3m86.6        0.0       0.0       0.0    966.0   1495.0
0. Veites                             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    S60.0       0.0 0.0             0.0       0.0       0.0
E. ReeIMce Nataelals              19640.6    535.0   348.0,        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      34.5       0.0       0.0       0.0
F* lees                               0.0       0.0       0.0  1951.?        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
6. CMiv Wwbs
1. ea Cmwtnus. Ctr. 3d.              0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0  673.?          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
2. Eat fwb. Ctr. 3  .                0.0       0.0       0.0  3NM.  1t7MS             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
3. efswbIehiwm  Seconim.             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    M1.1         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
4. efwb. Al l Age Sdwotl             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0  1476.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
5. PhyIcatl lr                       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    115.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
SIbtotaL                             0.0       0.0       0.0   3700.0  2649.2         0.0    115.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
U. Tednircal Assute
1. LInt Cenudtan                  4758.6  45000.0       0.0    310.5  4211.5          0.0      14.0  126.0   3281.0   4363.1           0.0    550.0    880.0
2. Eapetriet      u Cmu t         2710.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0  t0794.8        0.0      0.0   1817.0        0.0   3450.0   730.0
btta                                18.645000.0          0.0    310.1  4321.5         0.0  108_.8   123.0    31.0   6180.1             0.0   40000        40.0             o
1. Studies                         11.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    400.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   4900.0  10350.0         0.0            I
J. pitot Preom                        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  20700.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
K. Admstretlva mpegt                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    3o0.0
....................................................................................................................................
taW   IEiT  OSTS                  221ISS.6  110603.2  48530.8  Z5.8  3 54    230.0   1 3.8   19108.3   3281.0   9295.4   6900.0  16`164.0  1061.0
it.    -u        CO-
...................
A.  eathn 8 biasmse
1. Igliet69.0                                 10.5      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    574.8   1728.         0.0       0.0       0.0    483.0    747.1
2.   ic       1sjItlittie            0.0       0.0       0.0      11.2   162.2        0.0       0.0    590.0        0.0    610.6       0.0   5865.,   713.0
3. &Aldium                           o0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  2M1.4          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
4. VehIcl                            0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    360.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
................................................................................................................
Sb-total                            49.0        .5       0.0      11.2  2499.6        0.0    S?4.0   2815.0         0.0    410.6       0.0   4351.5    t40.5
S. e umIce             t              0.0       0.0       0.0   1188.7       0.0       0.0    U4.O    590.0   2233.3    M5.9            0.0       0.0       0.0
C.  I     t emem te taff          1930.6   1047.0         0.0   1W.0         0.0       0.0   1100.0   1100.0        0.0   1047.0        0.0   7470.4   2075.0
0. Gree                               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
E.  aterals                           0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0   2090.         0.0       0.0    454.2       0.0   57S0.0        0.0
F. SIC Mied teot                      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1
6. Cotrst Stf                         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0   153.3         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       :0
N.  ftr Lew"                          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    402.S    575.0         *
................................. ...............................................................,..  ,  , , ...........
Total MaURINT coTS                19499.6   1057.5        0.0    51.9  2993.6          0.0   6745.1   4565.0   2m.3   2992.8            0.0  19974.4   411.5l
Toutal     INS COST               41555.5  11140.8  4850.8  2592.7  364.0  25830.0  1838.9  23673.3-  5514.3  12285.2   600.0  36290.4  16671.5
_Iplc t OsSI gm PI"               149.6   324    22.1          30.2  280696          0.0      46.5  28 .6          0.0    154.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  
Priceao  irnci.e                10529.9  29460.0   5188.3   369.8  6t12.0   6154.3   2557.2   4963.2   1475.9   2810.0    228.9   9143.9   209.3Z
.................................................. ................................................................. , ........
Tout PROJECo CT                   525.0   44374.2  55975.2  30054.7 45V28.6  354.3  20M72.7  28922.1   6990.2  15252.2   9428.9  45434.3  18730.8 
TeAIs                               0.0       0.0   4255.9       0.0       0.0       O.       0.0    470.9       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foveli Uu                        8929.7    146.6  0431.   21243.3  15726.4           0.0  1296.5   6479.4          0.0   3701.1       0.0   5007.8  t1010.0
..................................................................................................................................................................
Vaues Scaled by 1000.0  121/M199   17:W9



m rU     cs       .ous,   9. or        om o 
*,                                                                                         y .iw 991 su    rv  V*5UVf  s*tOs   a*ws                    Oi'  irW L.
sNO
^4                                                                                          49 bW 0L           9 t1  S* f- 95s3 VsSt  39               S    W         mot
fS  o                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......................................................................I
N                                                                                                              *U59S   9-t0    -9.0                 -" " IY W    i'.S
'9 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~U0    9.6z                    bUSh    9.9     9.U15   9.15151   9.301t               51-1'.511138 1%
99t1   - 6-   0-0          9.* I0's5  019131 e.g                    0       sia  tmiI    1351
CSS ffm L          0      ;0            1 f 0J  0  00     1 0SIA 0                        4113*U
99       9-a   0w0         011      9.OW      01101    9.0 00S  PlOld I∞O                     e
ruuz    ra       r o       ro      'rm"    01o 0o         0                     ""I o1 Is
0w 0      l 0-0            re 0 0s0-         o0w        010                    $3n      _ei   - l
re.g     rao    WC         9o       Ilan  O 0           0- 0                             MM  le
rili     We0    re0    0re          CuIO      wos      0ro                              or" i ~   le
VIIL1    r1Z    re        Ole       9.9a5    ru0        0'0           IdU      JI/mw3105  *1
SFIfAG    0l-   0-0        0-0       *UOA   0@          OsI 011                           1
7i;..... W;.......;.............-;;w.......;......... W; ..........................................  "sV li
951      9.51   0 0        0*     t00        0-0       0-0                          SISI'A v
9.9      flu3   l0e        010       lSu W 00           0'0         "SS1S11Ws0     '.    *3
r0A      619    O-         l0 60 3L          9.1t1     Oe                          3        -t
.......
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ u                                                                                                          11|1 I
0                                                                          I*5W1  9'* ItC  r5 f  E*S  O-S 'OUS 9t .301                                wr  imuui  )'@
...............        ...... ..i...... ........... ............ ..........I
rmw  uM   9.0   9.0    swan  WC    ro                                           62=1" -
6' 9n0- 0'         0   0re  W       A90'0      01-      **s1                            Ism-'
9 S 3'           511       901       0h'0     01        0'0          0         S'0  WISAG  11
................      ......................w....."w.....................onm     "wot-
01319     £91    ruuit   9.0         rition  re        00             WI*3   1 Ie.AU
............... ;w.... .;;...... ; ...... W  -     ...... ;.........          4pa     _=6dI
19 9     913    93*9    9010         £'139  *'0         0'0                    _~ *4'3  'S3j3 
SI'    l'9t   9|=         clot      we9m    ole        ∞o's          .,"_;aft        w lq       t
olt,c  l*z   oou t  oot           VSU1   oo           ole                I'M    q      o    1
t331    9-1    0-0         0-0      Alt"      90       0-0                              qilS O I
L399     1113   9.0        9.0      Alto"9  010         Ol0                             go"ae wr. Id
43545    £11    95 010      l       VoM1   9.0          9.0                           3q4io 5inm Is
9*af      e'    0119        We      6-311   011 o0- o-on                                     .1
0II    A9Ctf l'0M          Irt   O'           Wo        0'0 00*
slo         I-OC  VAs  I,$    rp                  ro       woso
............................ ..................0'.....................
S lau    OBI     ow        Al       oSl           0l     0 0                                 I t
..... .......... ....
VA WM  Is        MOL       vion                                  _ t ti
I,,,,...................   Sso1           U      t)
*_0t MIOM  M    Ao
090M U613=0 AMPMa   Smbw  -



-82-                      Anemx 12, Table 5
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Educato Project
Qum  AmotDibem
(US S   )                         %on
1.    Civl Wors               12.0              85% ofexpndibues
2.    Euipment, Furniture,
Vehiles, EducaWonal
ateials, Texbooks        5.3              100% Ofexpenius
3.     bcnic Al,
T W6ig, Pnowhi,
Stu,dis, PilotPgrams    11.6              100% of expendies
4.   Inceme   Recurrent
costs                   0.5               50% of incremental recurt costs
up to an aggregate of US$235,800;
th 0 Xfter0%of incremental
recinent costs up to an aggrgt
of US$783,800; and 20% of
cmet I   recurrent costs
therfter up to an aeate of
US$1,598,300.
5.    Unallocated              2.6
Total                   32.0



-83-                       Annex 12, Table 6
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education Project
EsmtdSchedule of DWsb4n
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Bask BY                   DW_m                 Disb rsem_t            Baace
Semesoer Ending           im         I         Anm                   Amout
December 31                1.0       3           1.0       3         31.0      97
June 30                    1.0       3           2.0       6         30.0      94
December 31                1.3       4           3.3      10         28.7      90
June 30                    1.3       4           4.6      14         27.4      86
EX2
December 31                3.8       12          8.4      26         23.6      74
June 30                    2.6        8         11.0      34         21.0      66
EX2
December 31                3.8       12         14.8      46         17.2      54
June 30                    2.6        8         17.4      54         14.6      46
EY2f
December 31                3.8       12         21.2      66         10.8      34
June 30                    2.6        8         23.8      74          8.2      26
EY9
December 31                2.6        8         26.4      82          5.6      18
June 30                    2.6        8         29.0      90          3.0       9
December 31                1.3       4          30.3      94          1.7       5
June 30                    1.3        4         31.6      98          0.4        1
December 31                0.4        1         32.0      100          -        -
Project Completn Date: June 30, 2000
Project aosing Date: Dember 31, 2000



-84.
Annex 13
Page 1 of 3
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
30 NATIONAL HEOES CIRCLE,
ANY NW.Y an mSUSSIvUS  PUU
WO" BIACCRUM TO---                                       P.O. B0X 512.
7^nWdO GUOIIlt.KINGSTON,
JAMAICA
February 12. 1993
Ref. No.
Mr. Jacques van der Gaag,
Chief,
Human Resources Division,
Country Department III,
Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
The World Bank,
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. van der Gaag,
Re:  Proposed Loan - Reform of
secondary Udugation Proiget
The Government of Jamaica is prepared to identify
and list for priority treatment, a number of projects for the
forthcoming fiscal year and hereby undertakes to place the
Reform of Secondary Education Project on the list. In the
Fiscal Year 1992/93, the Government of Jamaica adopted a
priority approach similar to what is nov proposed and the
results in terms of increased allocation of resources and an
improved implementation record can be verified.
With specific reference to projects funded by the
World Bank, the following three in the social sectors - the
Social Sectors Development Project, the Jamaica Population and
Health Project and the Education Programme Preparation and
Students Loan Project, have all been placed on the priority
list. The Reform of Secondary Education (ROSE) Project will
be accorded similar treatment. This implies consulting with
the Ministry of Education prior to each budget year, and
working closely with the project management team and the World
Bank, to ensure that the level and timing of Warrant releases
are timely and in accordance with the planned implemuntation
path.      *



Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
Mr. Jacques van der Gagg,                 February 12, 1993
Chief,
Human Resources Division,
Country Department IrI,
Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
The World Bank,
Furthermore, the Government of Jamaica undertakes
to present to each IRDP Annual Review, the proposed budgetary
allocation for the ROSE Project. However, the Government of
Jamaica must place on record that whilst the proposed
allocation usually provides an accurate indication of
resources which will be approved by Parliament, no legal
commitment can be given prior to Budget Debate and the passing
of t..e Estimates of Expenditure.
Yours sincerely,
Financial Secretary.
:



5>                   ~~~~~~Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
THE UNIVERSITY OF THE WEST INDIES
FsOwVWtt k-OuncaI lo                                                           Mia
W Fiim. SiAWe vMdntyv, OMU W). CCM CD CvJ                             Xso'. 7aIm
Febray I, 1993
Dr. Elsie LeFranc
Director
ustitute of Social and Economic Research
University of the West Indies
Mona
Kngston 7
Dear Dr. LeFranc,
I have received your Memorandum of November 18, 1992, concerning your
proposal to set up an Electronic Data Bank at the ISER (Mona). I am particularly
pleased to see that this is being caied out in collaboration with the Plaing
Intitute of Jamaica and that tce World Bank appears willing to give favourable
consideration lo the support of dtis pro'
I am fully in support of ths proposal, and write to let you know that the University
will undertake the financing of the recurrent costs as detailed in your  morndum
to me. The recurrent costs for supplies will be accomnmodated within the ISER's
budget for the new triennium for 1993/96.
With regard to the recuet costs for personnal, I understand that at a meeting
convened by Pro Vice Chancellor Edward Oreene, on Nove.-rber 14, 1992, and
atteded by the University Dean, and the Dirctors of ISER, it was agreed that this
would be an appropriate charge on the income from th Ford Endowment Grant.
This support would beg  im the Academic year 1993/94.
Yours sicely
Ai-



-87-                                 Annex 14
JAMAICA
Refom of Secondary Education
Seldede  ocume  and Data AvailUable in the Project File
kuIoltalonLWorking Pgesm
ROSE Curriculum
ROSE Training
Educaion Mateias
Textbooks
Inrsrcwre
Exam Rationalizaton
Public Campaign
ROSE Evluation
Socia Polic Analysi
NM  Poliv Matrix (June 1992)
Schmatic Drawin!1-6 Stream Junior Hih Schools



-88-
,Annex 1.5
JAMAICA
Refrm of Seaondary Edu on
Actividies                                   1993/4    1994/S   1995/6   19967   199718    Tots
Idroduce Now Curricua
Crade 7 to new tdets                         4,977      6,282    8,307    9,362    10,507   39,435
Grade 8 to new studes                        1,692     4,9"7    6,282    8,307    9,362   30,620
Grde 9 to new students                        211       1,692    4,977    6,2      8,307    21,469
Curicuum Developmet Stdies                                         1         I        1        3
Educatlon Officor,                            12        12       12        12       12       60
School Administatr                           110        110      110      110      110        10O
School Bord Members                          456        456      456      456      456      2,280
Teachers
ln4servio
Orientatlon Workshops                       S68       1137     1705      170S     1705     6,820
Methods Course                              568       1137     1703      170S     170S     6,820
Pre-ServioeQrdyr)                            SOO        SOO      SOO      SOO      500      2,500
New Consucon (aunior High Schols)                         1        2        .        .         3
All-Ag Schoob                                 14         6        3        4                 27
New Sondoy Swhools                            10         .        .                           10
Small MI-Ago Schools                                     -        10       10       .        20
Furnr (# Al-Apgshoolb)                         14         7        15       14       _         50
Supply EdIctonal mateial (# school)
24         9       20        16       3        72
Exam RadonalEzation
Introducea   gmade9 tea                        -                   I   .    .                  I
Introduoe nw gmade 6 achievemt test            .                   I                           I .  1
Convert to conutrized  isttion                                                       I .  .  1  1
ROSE Managemet
Annual Revew Worshop                           1          1        1        1        1         5
Midterm Reiew Workshop                                              1                         1
Evaluatio
Educatonal Offifers tained                    18         18       18        18       18       90
Inventoy checklisb conmptd (# schools)        27         21       17        16       13       94
Pros tesb admised (# schools)                 27         21       17        16       13       94
Classrooms obseved(# schools)                 10         16       12        .        .        38
Textboob
P1/P2 Books                                    0        3,900    18,S00   20,400   7,600    50,400
N/I Textbooks                                  0        9,500    11,900   13,000    4,400    38,800
HRLAP                                          0       15,700   20,700   15,500    8,000    59,900
P1/F2 Boobs                                    0       23,600   23,600   23,600      0      70,800
HIRLAP                                         0       15,700   12,600   11,000      0      39,300
..~ =. ..-                                                                  -        =



89-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ale 16
Poe 1 of 3
JAMIICA
Reform ef Seondr eduadtn
TmeUne
_                      li;;i  --I   lilS IO          1.r--6 I__      1.1' 100  1            S ' loss                   ,
AC _n
I.TROUC8NffW COIOLS
yen I
22 6ud1 m210 9lm_nw 3   s
660 SUNW4l e747. G&162  .1;
s6UgwarofforfUa6              mm m
11_te   ST-= O367 ectwX
13661 00on g4262.s p6iS7.0916
so"o     m_tfyS                           xoot xoa              o
8atS00obC|EhrefttSYISO6u6                       mm                   Of 
;wsclttsfmtwo      t
196 bzdK 9743. g 4S.N. p2:
WAR4
Ealmi adxI far UO                                                                                                          I
YEARS
60l0M Wu Uftb*NC                                                                                      mm
1SaU  'I: 03 _;seo  1465 bS
20176 sbdmrAK g?.106P. gl U60.03l
L. CIJRRCWAU& 0EALOPWE(MMS
1.    T IIT-         _m _ r      _                      
2. PkiisetCu        _          I        I     IG u  a  
FId et Gu                                 mm m"
wTaed                         a xx 1 ax mm  3m
4L T*MmIW MWAfis
PbW at                            m       )mm   m
Pam ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    m
muefaw   seEm wpituafs 
-                                                              mm
Too"_                        I                                          XX  XX  XX    I oKmoK    J= x             1o =f    a        O   X 
U O_AeAW                                    mIx m mx  ,bo mm                                 m     m        m1 xx x  xxo
7. amitW.0uwmginsmpuyeadommmmm
K~~~                       1 1X11  1 -1-    I  --  ---
t. 6xWMm .'0W mTAflVpl 1                        mm               mmmmmmm
4 ll h.fbiysfm                      mm                           mm               mm               mm               mm



-90-                                         Ahw 1l
Pags2d 3
hzi I 1is"11 I                             I I    is    I I    lhmI
rI O.  CMIUC COMiUMT      _                              _______      
1. 4U~ifSdW@M
cm OM
aft" S02XII 00IXO
_                                               xot~~~~~~~X  xxx 3  O  xxx   xot
omp~~~~~~~~O 1:e:  zao xOX axzw                x
_004                           xcm mm x    m    10      X x Ox
om mm   ; :mm mm mm    mx mm m
Oa ;&2_" 4 Wl                  mm        mm mm xm c
z Pl_m ow8w 
owe  :da   )               mm oo            mm
7._~#-Ill 0;ftr    x   z     OMX XC oQt t
o-tv)$t~mmmmmm                       mmm m m com mmo mo
wa__"offam                                                                                     30m   m mm _  _
V. 1ocI Ioo                                      I   I                                 I
2. pgstmo,g Ng  Ieiwm.      m
hN$oro"                Ix IXXX IXXl 
T&IWFN                      mm mmlMt  m                                                  .
TdIdNEKW"sa                            m    mX
Ttd  1WEaDS                              mX 1
T4"bNapabafo
&tU1_ SO |;S aab | ' S 
f_R@l      AP 0  1                       mm                          mm            -            mx
a  Dl-                   l       00       I      IIm               Joe           ∞∞t I 
a                        IPIIFrAa 1, VI  i 
Tafld e  tFFGd                                          mmmm
.. MOm i, a_                                                              x
OSOIUMPPiOS7                     Jam                         mm  ~ Om      mm           m



)mm mm      m mwjp4M
XXN  W                      04p~~~~aumnmin
zeoe xoo xoo ~~~~~m                xx o  oozoSloxax om  YRID 0 00 70 J
mm  mm   mm=mmm mm mxo rw  o    xm mm   mm mm     mmW                       s
mm    mm    mm    mm    mm~~x mu mxx m mm mmx mm  mum... mo
mnI
_     m  m  _mm    m __   m__   mms _ m  _ mm   mm    m m   mm mm _  _   _ W     sm 
MMXWWJOrOd IVM= KX
f mm  m  m                                 mmo mxI 3W t
m          to m      mma         mmo          mma         uoo x. x o ua. x, woA MM 'm
lo so argw ut v
mm mmo mmm m mc mm    mm    m           m    mm mms mm__m~a
mm    mo          mm    mm mmm   mm    mm m  MI=    m                    dsSoVAdm nIwwo
xno         m           xxx xxx                              3m                 oow  mU_  o
X zoa      zoo          m           m in         oc                         _swi&
xoo   zoa   m      xoot         wo                     __ew SP_uwm U
mx  x  x           xm      mm           mm          mm 
m                 mo xx         m    mt                                  "mgduw
mm           mm                      mm                    ooo  z
m   mm mm m             xmm mm mo m  mm          mmmm
mm    mm           mm~~oc%Wmmwm
mm  mm               mm           mm          mm      x )                 wqauq.auw
im m         o m        mm              m        m           imn m                    on"
)m                          xm mmn mmMm mmmmm                               s_w,
3=  xxx  xxx          xv                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WWIWP9UI3WO*Ald&
N=umWg U%
NOILWA _ _m
.v'. et  . 8        -i   .                              wa w                    -
I is   1  -IJIt                      1 111                    1 1   "
tP tdU



-92-                     Annex 17
Page 1 of 2
JAMAICA
Reform of Secondary Education
Supervision Sghedu%e and Mid-TerM Review
SUPE,RVISION SCE,L
Semi-annual supervision missions are anticipated for this project, and are likly to take place
In December and June each year. 'Me totad annual number of stffconsultant weeks required are:
Task Manager                             7
Operations                              10
Economist (CECPH)                        5
Education Specialist (Cons.)            3
chitect (Cons.)                       4
Procurement Specialist (Cons.)          1
30
In addition, the fit supervision mission soon after project effectiveness (e.g. June 1993) will
be the Project's Launch (1 week). Therefore the staffing for this mission would include:
Task Ma
Operations Assis
Archect
Disbursement Offica
Pocuement Specaist
A Mid-Term ImplmentFon Review will be conducted by the MOEC and the PIO no later
than March 31, 1996. The Rview should comprise a comprehense assessment of the project as
designed and reflected in this Staff Apprai  Report against actual progress to date. It should also
take into account issues arising from suvision during the first half of the project. More specific
topics and ouput indicators/targets for review include:
A.   RIeforn of dnndaq Education  zMn=:
*     effectivess of the packag of inputs delivered through this component to project
schools in raising student achievement should be reviewed by using prelimiay
Indiations from acdvities carried out under the evaluation sub-component;
*     the ovall feassibltyMabllity of the textbook rental scheme, including the
effclvens of the exteosion of the scheme to the All-Age schools;



-93-                     Annex 17
Page 2 of 2
*     Based on the pro- and post-test from the evaluation component:
*     there should be a difference of at least 25% (twenty-five percent) between the
pre-test and post-test seores within the classroom; and
*     post-test scores for project schools in relation to comparison schools shall be
positive and statistically significant
B.    Evaluation and Management Strnpghenlnf
*     effectiveness of the Refbrm Management Team approach in project implementation as
opposed to a more traditiona Project Implementation Unit approach (hner aba, does
the approach provide enough flexibility to managmg a complex reform program?);
*     the past perfomance with respect to actual budgetary expendures of the MOEC
including a breakdown by levels of education and project specific expenditures.
Otut Indicators/I~r~eS
hIntroduction of new grade 9 exam by June 1995 and the elimination of the Grade Nine
Achievement Test (GNAI).
hIn accordance with the exam rationalization plan:
*     eliminate 16 Jamaica School Certficate (JSC) tests and 3 Secondary School
Certificate (SSC) tess; and
* transfer to the HEART Trust, 13 JSC tests and 16 SSC tests.
C.    Social aft  Analsi
*     effectiveness of the mechanism for setting the research agenda;
*     policy relevance, timeliness, and technical quality of the research performed;
*     success of the facuty upgrading courses;
*     effectiveness of the Tehnical Advisory Committee;
*     effecdveness of the training program for line ministry staff
*     Offer at UWI at least 3 quantitive methods courses to be developed under the
project.
*     Prepare 6 working papers with policy relevance for the social sectors of quality
commensurate with interational academic standards.



.JAMAICA.
6608 F~~  iaa  -   iwlls Artrial ioasl.0   Selected TOW"l
a       .  "AOV                              so 4UX''W -  Om.''                          
*                                           14JAM       480           .    Main Porte                      O&MonUd Capuma
X . . ............. .ol                         In                W*watM  A y ........ pwio Sonak
S"EUZE     JAMAICA. -                           *P .o.  8                4     ,
OAL~~~~~~~3 ~~~0                              a       ~      .   Reek"I Bouvidares               CowKty Sunern$sa
55            *  g  T*       VS   *X*
nw                    CA RIO B&1EA 
CORNWALL                                   #  s
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A
O~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~FLOT 10,00-0 820  A80' 4>  w;KOW;_E
O __ __ _ __ _2D_ _ __ _9D_ _ __ __ __ _______-_ __        _a                                 @ . - , . ~     B  B l a   . 4 B
~~~~~~~~v                                                                     MA
daw            vfw                         7(81 SRRE



