I)ocm: of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCIAL USE ONM
Repwt N. P-5974-JN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF TUE
INTERATONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND EV PME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$32.0 ILLI6ON
TO JAMAICA
FOR A
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 4, 1993
Tit'e:  RE', U-  t   '-,FUj; z.2   E)  - 
'ilut;ur-: f>AFd'> rFt,J 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1.00 = J$23.0
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP           Administrative Reform Program
CAST          College of Arts, Science and Technology
CAC           Cultural Training Center
EMIS          Educational Management Information System
GOJ           Government of Jamaica
HEART         Human Employment and Resource Training
EHRDP         Human Resources Development Program
IBMS          Institution Based Monitoring System
ISER          Istitute for Social and Economic Research
JBTE          Joint Board of Teacher Education
JSC           Jamaica School Certificate
JTA           Jamaica Teachers' Association
MLWS          Ministry of Labour, Welfare and Sport
MOEC          Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH           Ministry of Health
NAP           National Assessment Program
ODA           Overseas Development Agency (U.K.)
PIOJ          Planning Institte of Jamaica
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSIP          Public Sector Investment Program
ROSE          Reform of Secondary Education
SESP          Social and Economic Support Program
SLC           Survey of Living Conditions
STATIN        Statistical Institu  of Jamaica
UWI           University of the West Indies



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Jamaica
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Education and Culture
Planning Institute of Jamaica
Loan Amount:        US$32.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayment in 17 years, including a 4-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable inw,rest rate.
-^g P:
Loal              Foreign       Total
US$ nllion
IBRD                     20.9          11.1          32.0
Netherlands               1.8          0.9            2.7
Government                6.0          0.0           6.0
Total                    28.7          12.0          40.7
Rate of Return:     Not Applicable
Poverty Category:   Program of Targeted Interven :ions
Staff Appraisa
Report:             1 1534-JM
Map:                IBRD No. 20846
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MElMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO TIRE EXECUTIVE DItECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PROJECT TO JAMAICA
FOR A REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$32.0 millior to help finance a Reform of
Secondary Education Project. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a
maturity of 17 years, including a grace period of four years. The Government of the Netherlands has
expressed its intention to co-finance this project for an amount of 5 million Guilders (approximately
US$2.7 million). Part I of the document contains a discussion of Jamaica's economic policies and the
Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part H describes the proposed loan.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND THE BANK GROUP'S
ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Economic Poliies and Performance
Economic Decline and Iitial Adment
2.           After rapid growth from independence in 1962 to 1973, the Jamaican economy
contracted dramaically in 1973-80 becmse of extenal shocks and inappropriate domestic policies.
The Government of Jamaica's (GOJ) role in the economy expanded substantially through direct
interventions and nationalizations. During the early 1980s, GOJ took some measures to stabilize the
economy and reestablish private sector confidence, with IMF and World Bank support, but fiscal and
external current-account aeficits remained unsustainable and government consumption continued to
grow at the expense of private consumption and imnestment. Aggregate growth remaied negative.
External official financing allowed GOJ to defer serious adjustment, and external debt doubled by
1985. After 1987, following a major review of economic policies by GOJ, IMF, and ihe Bank, the
adjustment program became more focused, private investment expanded, and the economy began to
tumn around, helped by improved terms of trade and better economic management. The Bank
supported these efforts with four sector adjustment loans. GOJ reduced direct inrventions in the
economy, such as price and interest rate controls and quantitative restrictions on trade, realigned its
exchange rate, and initiated a privatization program. Still, many measures were long delayed, and
not enough was done to restructure and reduce the public sector.
AcmeratW  M stmeL   and SnibeMadon
3.           The new Government began in 1989 to accelerate the pace of reforms and reduce the
size of the public sector, through cuts in subsidies and expenditures, and stepped up privatization. It
also removed many distortions to the incentive system - degulating most prices and
distribution/marketing channels, discontiniung general food subsidies, eliminating most remaining
quantitative restictions and trade monopolies, and lowering external tariffl. In the financia sector, it
removed interest rate subsidies, strengthened the regulatory framework, and adopted a market-
determned foreign exchange regime based on commercial bank transactions. In September 1991, it
eliminated all restrictions on current (and on most capital) international transactions, allowing the
exchamge rate to effectively float.



4.             These strong reforms did not bring quick results, however, because of inappropriate
sequencing and continued public sector deficits, due to a large quasi-fiscal deficit (osses of the Bank
of Jamaica - BOJ). Servicing the external debt, inherited from the 1980s, also meant that a
substantial share of domestic saving was not available for domestic investment. In 1989 Jamaica was
in the midst of an unsustainable recovery, fueled by external financing and reconstruction following
Hurricane Gilbert. This, along with large foreign-exchange arrears and shortfalls in divestment
proceeds and exterrel financing, led to increases in domestic credit. The public-sector deficit, loose
monetary policy, and a rapidly depreciating exchange rate contributed to accelerated inflation, which
was accompadied by highly negative real interest rates. Between the end of 1990 and spring 1992,
the exchange rate fell from J$8 per US$1 to J$28 although since mid-1992 it has remained stable at
J$22-23. The main problem was that financial and exchange rate markets were liberalized in 1991,
before eliminating the overall public sector deficit and providing a sound financial basis for BOJ.
Table 1. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, 1980-92
PreL
Esdmato
198046   1987-89     1990       1991     1992
Feal Growth Rate L
GDP                                 -0.5       4.1      3.8       0.8       2.0
Per Capita GDP                      -1.8       3.5      2.9      -1.0       0.5
Saying sad Investment (% of GDP)
Domestic Saving I GDP               15.3      23.4     19.0      20.3      28.0
Gross Investment / GDP              20.9      22.4     20.9       19.8     22.0
of which: PublicInvestment          ..       13.0     10.6       8.2      9.5
Publc Scotor (% of GDP) aPY
Cenral Government Balance          -10.8      -1.5      1.5       3.9       4.0
Overall Publio Sector Balance      -14.3      -8.0     -2.9      -0.4       0.1
Blance of Payments (I of GDP)
Resource Balance                    -5.7       1.0     -2.0       0.5       6.0
Current Acoount Baance             -10.9      -7.2    -10.7      -8.9      -4.0
PnceX)
CPI (end of period, % change)       17.4      135      28.3      105.7     25.0
Real Exchb Rate hI                  89.6      69.0     65.8      44.8      53.7
(1980=100)
Extne Debt
Total DOD/GDP (X)                  121       134      111        127      136
Total Debt& s 5rvice/xpoz t/s f     33        37       31        31        27
Intere / lEports 4,9                17        13       12         10       10
Interest/GDP /                       9         7        7         7         7
p/   1991-92 in fiscal yars.
hi   A decaserefles depreciaton. End of peiod; as of July for 1992/93.
g/   Exporb of goods and non-fator semvioes.
gi   Amotzato an interest pa
_e/  Inteest pad.
Srce:   Mhistry of Finance, Bank of lamaica, Statisca Iute of Jamaica, IBRD staff estimabos.



- 3 -
5.           GOJ greatly tightened its fiscal stance in the first cluarter of 1992 and ended the
1991/92 fiscal year with an overall public-sector deficit of only 0.4% of GDP (excluding divestment
proceeds). It replaced an array of other taxes with a general consumption tax (GCT) in October
1991, which is yielding more revenue than projected. Spending reductions were more important,
with large layoffs and reductions in real wages in 1992. Salaries were taxed away in real terms by
inflation, while some of tax revenues flows, especially the GCT, kept up well in real terms. This,
however, left parts of the civil service sorely in need of real salary increases to prevent a further
brain drain.
6.           The depth of the reform has been considerable, and Jamaica is now close to having an
adequate environment for more rapid and sustained growth, although the macroeconomic framework
remains fragile. First, the adjustment program, especially in the last five years, has reduced the size
of the State, with government consumption and public-sector investment each declining about one-
third in the past two years. Under an I xtended Fund Facility (EFF), approved in December 1992,
GOJ committed itself to continue strengthening the fiscal situation, including that of BOJ. Second,
the domestic markets for goods and financial assets are now much better linked to intemational
markets. As long as this openness to international markets is maintained - and it would be difkicult
economically and politically to reverse the trend now - economic policy will face tight constraints
and will not be able to get as far out of line as in the past. Investment and growth in the private
sector have increased some, but a response adequate to raise real incomes noti eably still waits - as it
did for years in Chile and Mexico - for assurance that no fiscal or other policy problems will cloud
the sky. As the doubts are cleared up, a strong private sector response, already nascent, should help
to solve the fiscal constraints.
7.           With further deepening of reforms, and barring unforeseen negative external shocks,
economic performance is projected to improve on a sustained basis. Real GDP growth projections for
1992-94 begin low (rising gradually to 4% in 1994) because the immediate focus has to be on
completion of stabilization. Full realization of Jamaica's economic potential would mean real GDP
growth at (or above) 5-6% later in the decade, more rapid growth in exports of goods and services,
and larger private capital inflows. The main source of increased growth will be a progressive
improvement in the efficiency of investment, which was very low in the 1980s. Domestic saving is
also projected to rise in step with improvements in the public-sector balance and to finance a modest
increase in the share of GDP for investment. The current-account deficit is projected to decline
substantially, while private capital inflows are expected to increase in response to reforms.
8.           Despite the projected narrowing of the current-account deficit, Jamaica's gross
financing needs will remain substantial (even after additional debt rescheduling) because of the weight
of Jamaica's external debt and debt service. Allowing for increased real net direct foreign
investment, for some repatriated flight capital, and for continued IMF support, gross external
disbursement needs are estimated at about US$375 million a year for the next four years, which are
covered by existing and anticipated commitments. Increasing the share of grants and concessional
lozas would substantially reduce Jamaica's debt overhang (and so its debt service ratios) by the latter
1990S.



- 4 -
Table . ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS
Pio!.
,stimate     Proiected
1992    1993      1994    1995      1996
Domc Economy (%1:
GDP Growth                              2.0     3.0       4.0      4.5      5.0
Investment / GDP                       22.0    22.0      22.0    22.0      23.6
Domestic Saving / GDP                  28.0    29.2      28.8    28.1      29.1
Overal Publc Sector BaLance I GDP A/    0.1      2.5      3.0      3.5      3.7
Eterund PFinancing (US$ nilion):
Current-Account Balance (before graMnts)  -136.3   -76.0    -48.7   -44.4    -21.6
Amortzation WI                       -329.0  -329.0   -281.0  -278.0   -346.5
Change in Net Reserves (-  increase)  -130.0   -89.0   -142.8   -156.6   -152.5
Totd Financinn :R9_reens             -5953   -494.0   -472.5  -479.0   -520.5
TotalE auncgin                        595.3    494 6    472.5   479.0    520.5
Direet Foreign nvesment                89.0   100.0    120.0   120.0    120.0
Granus                                 81.6    51.0      48.5    50.0      50.0
Disbursements and Other Flows         424.7   343.0    304.0   309.0    350.5
_/ hicludes Centml Government, BOJ losses and Public Entties; in fiscal years.
I Net of rescheduling.
Source: IBRD staff esnates and projectons.
Porty and Soal Po
9.             About onehird of Janaican bouseholds fall below the poverty line. The highest
incidence of poverty is in rural areas, where inrastructure and social services are weakest. While
unemployment contributes to poverty, most of the poor have work, at least in the informal sector;
poverty in Jamaica stems primarily from low earning power and poor opportunities. Despite
macroeconomic instability, unemployment fell from 25% in the early 1980s to 16% by the beginning
nf 1992. There were more than 20,000 new jobs a year in 1985-89, although most were low skilled
and in the infmal sector. Although emigration contributed to the decline of unemployment,
adjustment measures and the resumption of modest growth led to increased employment and some
recovery of incomes, which had been eroded in 1977-86.
10.           In the 1970s, Jamaica's social indicators compared favorably with those of other
middle-income countries in Latin America. Across the board reductions of state expenditure over the
past 15 years, however, have led to major declines in social services and supporting infrastcure.
Real spending on education and health fell by about 30% in 1980-86. By 1990, almost half of
Jamaica's 6th grade school children were sdll not literate. GOJ aches high priority now to
improving delivery of social services, eslecially for the most disadvantaged.
11.           GOJ removed inefficient general food subsidies in 1990-91 and replaced them with
more targeted programs, such as the externally-supported Food Stamp and School Feeding Programs.



-  -
In 1990, it started a Social anu Economic Support Program to fund public works projects, among
other things. The Bank and other external agencies are supporting longer-term investments via the
Human Resources Development Program (HRDP), initiated in 1988. It is designed to restore the
flow of funds to the social sectors, redirect investments towards services most likely to reach the
poor, rationalize allocation ox services, and increase cost recovery. GOT is committed to maintain
minimam levels of spending in the social sectors (health, nutrition and education), consistent with its
f,scal targets and a prioritized Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). The key issue now is to
improve the efficiency of these resources through improved project implementation and education and
health sector reforms, such as those supported by this project.
The Et  Ement
12.          Jamaica is a highly open economy with imports and exports of goods and services
each exceeding 50% of GDP. Its dependence on bauxite/alumina and agricultural exports, and on
tourism, make it particularly sensitive to inational price and demand changes. It is also heavily
dependent on imports, including fuel for most energy needs, and its high external debt makes it
sensitive to variations in interest and exchange rates in industrial countries.
13.          The vulnerability of Jamaica's economy to changes in the externa environment is
illustrated by projecting the initial effects of three hypothetical shocks. If bauxite-alumina prices fell
by 30%, the projected current-account deficit would widen by more than 6 percentage points of GDP.
If the demand for tourism and non-traditional exports grew only at the rate projected for GDP in
North America in 1993-96, the projected deficit would be 7 percentage points of GDP higher. If oil
prices rose by $5 a barrel, the deficit would increase by 3 percentage points of GDP. Such shocks
would probably not be accompanied by corresponding increases of financing, so the deficit could not
be sustained. A combination of recession and real depreciation would be needed to increase exports
and decrease imports enough to cover the shortfall.
14.          High external official debt remains a major concern. It has declined slightly since
1987, but was still the equivalent of 127% of GDP at end-1991. Since much of this debt is owed in
US dollar equivalent, Jamaica is vulnerable to the appreciation of OECD currencies against the US
dollar. Under 10% of the debt is commercial, about half is owed to official bilateral creditors, and
the rest to multilateral institutions, including the Bank. This limits debt relief possibilities, although
Paris Club rescheduling (on Houston terms), special measures by Canada and the United States, and
commercial debt relief have all been undertaken. G0J's current strategy is to limit increases in its
external debt, through improved macroeconomic management and the promotion of foreign
investment in the private sector, to rely more on grant and concessional loans, and to explore
possibilities for fiurter debt rescheduling, reduction and conversion.
15.          A combination of bilateral assistance on concessional terms and further rescheduling
of past debt will be necessary to ensure that Jamaica has the resources to develop, while meeting the
external and internal costs of debt service, which now take almost half of the national budget.
Although net reserves are still negative, they have become much less so in the past year and gross
reserves are currently at two months of imports (nearly twice that of a year ago).
16.          There are some new challenges (and opportunites) for Jamaica to become more
competitive in external trade. New European Community policies are likely to reduce Jamaica's
traditional exports of bananas and perhaps sugar. Likewise, the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) may erode, over time, the value of Jamaican (and other Caribbean) preferences



-6 -
for manufactured exports to the United States. The larger EC and NAFTA markets wIll, however,
open opportunities to expand non-traditional exports, such as information services and higher quality
manufactures. More liberal trade arrangements and a competitive exchange rate will help these
sectors continue to expand.
The Development Aaenda
17.          GOJ's development objectives - stated most recently in its Medium-Term Policy
Framework Paper (MTFP) of May 1992 - are to achieve increased and more sustainable private-
sector growth by having a sound macroeconomic framework and freeing the economy from over-
regulation and excessive state intervention. The key issues for GOJ now are how to: (i) enhance
macroeconomic stability so that GOJ can focus on nmicro issues within a consistent macroeconomic
framework; (ii) enhance priva.-sector confidence and increase investment; and (iii) restore and
develop the economic aid social infrastruc.ure, address basic poverty issues, and promote
environmentally-sound development policies.
18.          Macroeconomic Stability. This will continue to be a central concern over the nexL
few years. An important element in maintaining macroeconomic stability in Jamaica will be to
further reduce the size of the public sector and its c2ains on the economy's resources. Strong fiscal
management has been the missing link in previous adjustment efforts and is essential now. GOJ took
strong measures in 1992, bringing the public sector basically into overall balance. It recognizes that
fiscal stability remains precarious and that the high external debt limits its flexibility. The EFF
agreement with the IMF embodies the main macroeconomic commitments for the next three years and
are similar to those in the MTFP. letween 1992-93 and 1994-95, the targets call for increasing
surpluses in the public sector, rising to 3% of GDP in 1994-95. Deficit reduction covers the whole
public sector, including BOJ, to allow expansion of credit to the private sector, without fueling
inflation. Fiscal improvement is to come partly through revenue increasing measures, such as
changes in the GCT, other tax reforms, measures to increase cost recovery, and improved customs
administration. Most, however, will have to come from improvements in public expenditure policies.
These include further reductions in the civil service, already pruned by 7,300, or nearly 20% of the
staff, in 1992, and more privatization. Further reductions in the public sector work force are still
needed but they should be more selective than last year's cuts. In particular, it will be important to
implement layoffs and elimination of redundant agencies before public-sector salaries are revalued for
inflation. Any actions that increase the deficit, such as the recent increase of salaries for teachers and
police, will need to be carefully matched with other measures to improve the fiscal balance.
19.          With the EFF, GOJ also agreed to a sound monetary program. It aims to bring
inflation into line with its major trading partners and to allow the market to determine interest rates.
It is tackling the difficult problem of accommodating BOJ losses on past, quasi-fiscal operations,
which rose to 7% of GDP in 1992/93. They will now be phased onto the government budget. BOI
is being financially restructured, replacing non-interest earning "assets" with government bonds
paying market rates, taking action to eliminate its quasi-fiscal losses, and moving the accounts of GOJ
and public enterprises from BOJ to commercial banks. By 1995, interest-bearing BOJ liabilities will
be fully converted into tradeable government liabilities. These are crucial steps in separating fiscal
and monetary policies and allowing more autonomy for BOJ.
20.          GOJ is committed to the maintenance of a competitive, market-determined flexible
exchange rate, free of controls and distortions and to trade reform. Strong improvement in the
fiscal balance and reduction of import tariffs will be important for sustaining the competitiveness of



-7-
the real exchange rate, and facilitating export growth. This will be essential if the balance of
payments objectives agreed under the EFF - involving a reduction in the current-account deficit
(before grants) from 7.2% of GDP in 1991/92 to 4.3% in 1992/93 and, by 1994/95, 1.1% - are to
be achieved. In this context, Jamaica took the lead in securing the October 1992 agreement on
reductions of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) Common External Tariff (CET). Phased tariff
reductions and a lowering of the tariff range will lead to a regime which, with few exceptions, will
limit protection to the 5-20% range.
21.          Private Sector Development. The removal of obstacles to accelerated private-sector
development is central to the growth strategy. GOJ recognizes that government regulations and
complex procedures have constrained business activity-. It is removing them as rapidly as possible. It
is also trying to reduce inefficiencies in publicly-owned utilities (power and water) that contribute to
hidden and explicit costs in the private sector and to the fiscal burden on (iOJ. Serious deterioration
of economic infrastructure is also an obstacle to private sector development, as is already apparent in
fast-growing tourism areas. Infrastructure rehalilitation and development are thus critical and, along
with support for social programs, have become tlke main areas for external assistance.
22.          Further improvements in trade policy, privatization, and the reform of the legal-
regulatory framework for business are planned to encourage foreign and domestic investment. An
extensive privatization program, including utilities, and the deregulation of the sugar and petroleum
sectors, are key components of the reform agenda. Puolic sector investments will concentrate
increasingly on social andt economic infrastructure and, except for essential maintenance, there will be
no public investment in public enterprises slated for divestment. To encourage private-sector
development in poorer areas, GOJ is also reviewing an agriculture sector strategy, including
deregulation and reorientation of research and extension, to help non-traditional exports. In tourism,
it will rely almost entirely on privatesector initiative. In the public sector, there is still a need to
streamline bureaucracy, improve the management of public expenditure programs, and change the
orientation of the administration from direct interventionism to provision of services for a market
environment.
23.          Poverty Alleviation and Humnan Resource Development. Longer-term development
prospects depend on progress in both these areas, after long years of deteriorating social service
delivery and increased poverty. The policy framework which underpins the HRDP is now broadly
appropriate to Jamaica's conditions and potential. The challenges are to increase resources and
improve the institutional capacity to implement social programs. GOJ is committed to annually
increasing the social sector share of non-debt current budget, as well as increasing capital allocations
for education, health and nutrition in the PSIP from 13% in 1992/93 to 18% in 1994/95. GOJ will
provide the domestic finance required to utilize external funding, and streamline procedures for the
disbursement of both. The other main thrust is towards the rationalization of social service provisions
and increased cost recovery. Within the social sectors, GOJ is targeting resources with the highest
social rate of return. Recurrent expenditures for primary hcalth care are to be increased to 25% of
the total; primary education already takes 38% of the education budget. GOJ is considering the
divestment of some hospital support services; more community involvement in education; and
improved administration of user fees. Better program design and increased efficiency in the delivery
of education, health and nutrition services can make a substantial contribution to poverty alleviation.
However, much depends ultimately on sustainable, broad-based growth to provide more employment
and increase resources for social programs.



-8 -
24.          Environmental Protection. Environmental awareness is high in Jamaica. GOJ
knows that protecting a bigh quality natual environment is necessary for sustainable development,
particularly in tourism and agriculture, two of the largest ez.rners of foreign exchange. The major
concerns involve watershed protection, urban degradation, and water pollution. There are needs for
better coastal zone management, increased technical assistance for numerous watershed projects, and
the removal of irrigatiJn subsidies. For Kingston (where 40% of the population lives), a community
environmental project is proposed, together with support for environmental assessment and
compliance among private enterprises. Water pollution is being tackled with projects along the north
coast and, in Kingston, with a much larger project planned for pollution abatement in the Kingston
Harbor. A new umbrella agency, the National Resource Conservation Authority (NRCA) will
develop national environmental planning, monitoring and regulatory systems, in close coordination
with the private sector and NGOs. It is in the process of completing a National Environmental Action
Plan that is expected to draw substantial international support.
B. The Bank's Country Assistance Strateg
25.          The Bank fully supports 00J's development agenda, outlined above and described in
more detail in its MTFP. The current Bank strategy has three main objectives: First, consolidate
stabilization by supporting public sectur reform to match expenditures with revenue and at the same
time to strengthen the capacity of the State to implement progratas and projects. Institutional
strengthening, among line ministries and government agencies, is a central objective in all the Bank's
'nterventions. Second, encourage growth of export-oriented priva-sector production of goods and
services, through trade liberalization, regulatory reform, provision of economic infrastructure, and
withdrawal of the State from areas - particularly production and marketing - where the private sector
has more capability. Third, support GOJ in increasing the flow of resources for health and education
services, especially for the poor, and in improving the systems for delivering these services.
Protecting the environment is also critical for the objective of sustainable private-sector growth, as
well as for improving directly the quality of life of Jamaicans.
Countr Assislace Objeclives
26.          Public Sector Reform and Institutional S.  While GOJ has reduced the
aggregate size of the public sector, moving from stabilization to sustainable growth still requires
major improvements in efficiency. Meeting the needs for development of the private sector and
provision of social services to the populace requires strengthening the State sector in the key areas in
which it will remain active. The challenge is to develop this strength without upsetting the fiscal
balance, which remains precarious. The Bank will continue to monitor fiscal and other
macroeconomic policies, in coordination with the IMF, while increasing efforts to promote further
structural reforms that make the fiscal situation sustainable.
27.          So far, cuts in the public sector have been made across the board, while salary
reductions led many of the best staff to leave. The resources of the public sector are now spread
thinly across a large number of agencies - ministries, statutory bodies, and public enterprises. The
Bank will offer sustained, long-term support for GO efforts to eliminate agencies that duplicate effort
and to bring adequate authority and resources, including adequate salaries to retain qualified people,
back into the mainline ministries responsible for the critical tasks of GOJ. Loans from the Bank
already support technical assistance and sectoral reforms of management, but a more comprehensive
program is needed. We intend to intensify our dialogue in this art in FY94 with an extensive
review of public sector expenditures and public administration. -tis review will provide the basis for



-9 -
more focused efforts on public reform and institutional strengthening in the key sectoral ministries
where GOJ is to retain a lead role.
28.          Even a smaller public sector will need adequate resources to sustain it with competent
manpower and material inputs -- school books, medical supplies, computers, etc. The Bank shares
GOJ's reluctance to raise tax rates and its recognition that reforms to the tax system, especially on the
administrative side, can probably yield the necessary revenues. At GOJ's request, the Bank organized
a mission in January 1993 to review the tax system and to provide key recommendations for reform.
Implementing them will require technical assistance and financial support, which the Bank will help
provide.
29.          Private Sector Development. Restoring growth of incomes will require accelerating
the growth of the export-oriented private sector. To achieve this, the Bank is supporting continuation
of GOJ's efforts in three areas. First, ending the remaining public- sector activities that discourage
investment. The corresponding reforms include furtier trade liberalization, deregulation of trade and
investment, streamlining of customs procedures, and privatization to complete the exit of the public
sector from activities that compete with the private sector. Second, taking positive actions to
encourage private investment. These include improvements in the economic infrastructure, especially
in transport, water and energy; regulations to limit anti-competitive practices; support for export
promotion; and especially the consolidation of macroeconomic stability. Third, increasing the
availability of credit for private investment, if the demand for investment finance increases in
response to structural reforms, while capital markets are being strengthened.
30.          The Bank's support for private sector development has already included two trade and
financial sector adjustment loans. The most recent loan supported measures to reduce trade protection
and make it more uniform; increase competition and the efficiency of enterprises; and strengthen the
financial system and its regulatory framework. Further anticipated support includes a proposed
Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan (PSDAL), focusing on further trade reform,
privatization and the regulatory framework, and a Private Sector Investment and Export Development
Project, which would support the supply response and export promotion through technical assistance
and a global line of credit. Lending for infrastructre development would support private investment
in infrastructure as well as improvements in implementation of donor-funded projects. The Energy
Sector Deregulation and Privatization Loan, approved earlier this fiscal year, took such an approach,
as will a proposed Transport Sector Project, allowing for private investments in highways, ports and
other infrastructure, and a Water Restructuring and Privatization Project. Road rehabilitation and
maintenance, and integrated planning of GOJs road program, is also the object of an ongoing project.
The timing for further support will depend to a large extent on the pace of implementation of the
large ongoing program supported by various donors.
31.          Social Services and Povert Alleviation. Under the umbrella of the HRDP, the
Bank has helped to fund invertments in the social sectors since 1988. The Bank endorses GO's basic
approach to providing social services - emphasizing provision of a sound basic education (grades 1-9)
and primary health care, while targeting special programs for the poor. Promotion of the role of
women is also an intrinsic component of all social programs. Each year the Planning Institute of
Jamaica, with the Bank and other donors, reviews the HRDP policy framework as well as all HRDP
projects to ensure their consistency with social sector policies and priorities and fiscal constraints.
Further Bank support for HRDP will come through this project and a health sector operation, which
will also address underlying poverty relief issues. The Bank istalso supporting GOJ in monitoring
poverty and social conditions generally, through an annual household Survey of Living Conditions.



- 10-
Academics in Jamaica and Bank staff use this data for research on poverty and human resource
development. The Bank is also using it in the preparation of a poverty assessment for the country.
32.          Environmental Initiatives. A Bank report on the Environmental Issues in Jamaica
has been circulated to the Board and is an input to GOJ's Environmental Action Plan, which will be
presented at the next CGCED meeting in June 1994. Strengthening of the new National
environmental agency (NRCA) is a key priority supported by major donor agencies and the Bank. To
enhance its credibility, the NRCA will need to focus on a few well-defined priorities, watershed
protection and waste management in particular. The Bank will work closely with GOJ in revising its
water policies and legislation. The Bank is also preparing a Water and Sanitation Project for the
Kingston Metropolitan Area (KMA) and will be supporting, through the GEF, steps to improve
energy demand management. A community-based KMA slum upgrading program is also being
considered. To promote sustainable hillside agriculture, the Bank is planning sector work to identify
measures to improve the efficiency and earning power of small farmers. This, as well as the KMA
slum upgrading Project, would have major benefits in poverty reduction.
AssUte 
33.          As of December 31, 1992, the Bank had approved 54 loans for Jamaica totaling about
US$1 billion, after cancellations. Of that amount, about US$162 million has yet to be disbursed.
The IBRD's share in Jamaica's MLT public debt service (including IMF) was estimated at 16% at the
end of 1992. Debt service payments to the Bank were about 18% of MLT public debt service
(including DMF) or 5% of exports of goods and non-factor services. Adjustrent lending has
accounted for about one-third of total Bank lending to Jamaica, including three structural adjustment
loans (FY82-85) and four sector adjustment loans, for public enterprises sector (FY87), trade and
financial sector (FY87), agriculture (FY90), and again for trade and finance with a second loan,
TFSAL I (FY91).
34.          Strong development of the investment pipeline will be necessary to assist GOJ in
providing adequate economic and social infrastructure, and to support rapid and sustainable growth in
response to recent and anticipated reforms. To do this while shifting our focus from adjustment to
investment lending, our commitment levels will need to increase from an average of US$60 million to
about US$100 million in each of the next few years. The size of the program will depend on
continued reforms by GOJ, particularly in the fiscal area. The Bank's exposure may rise slightly in
the medium term, after having declined over the past 3 years. Ultimately, the Bank can expect to
reduce its exposure significantly as private capital inflows and export growth provide the Jamaican
economy with the foreign exchange that it needs, and as moderate taxation of the growing private
sector provides GOJ with most of its resources for public investment.
35.          Timing the transition from adjustment to investment lending will depend on continued
close monitoring of the balance of payments. Based on past experience, any adjustment operation
will require: strong fiscal performance; structural reform to promote private sector development and
reduce the public sector's overall role in the economy; and improved focus of GOJ activity on human
resource development, targeted interventions to alleviate poverty, and infrastructure development.
Adjustment lending is expected to decline to less than 15% of new commitments over the next few
years. It will support private sector development and public sector reform, which will also be
supported with some investment lending. Most other investment lending will go for infrastructure-
about 35%-and human resource development and poverty alleviation-about 25% of new



- 11 -
commitments. Infrastructure projects with strong enviromnental protection components will rise to
about 15%.
36.          Another cornerstone of our strategy must also be to assist GOJ in securing a larger
share of its external aid from other sources, especially in grants or soft loans. The size of external
official debt will continue to limit Jamaica's capacity for extensive borrowing on conventional loan
terms. The Bank will continue its efforts to mobilize bilateral and other multilateral flows through the
Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED). In addition, the Bank is
encouraging policies that should increase the net flow of private external resources to the private
sector, in the form of equity as well as lending.
37.          Our lending program objectives will be developed from economic and sector work
focusing on: (i) monitoring of the macroeconomic situation (with the IME), including reviews and
advice on key reforms, such as tax and customs; (ii) preparation of a country economic memorandum
on the adjustment process, sources of growth, poverty, and policy agenda; (iii) review of public
expenditure and management; and (iv) health, transport, and water sector development reviews as part
of project preparation activities.
38.          A further component of our assistance program, under consideration, is to open a
Resident Mission in Kingston in the near future. This has received strong support from the Jamaican
authorities. The mission would assist GOJ in making the transition from adjustment support to
investment lending - working hands on with ministries to improve the efficiency and the allocation of
public sector resources; to strengthen our policy dialogue and analytical work in moving from macro
to more detailed micro and sector reforms; to improve our pipeline; and most of all, to improve the
implementation performance of the large portfolio of externally financed programs.
Implemeutgon issues
39.          Project implementation has deteriorated seriously in the past few years, and is a major
concern for all external financing agencies. In part, this has been the result of tight fiscal constraints
which, combined with weaknesses in budgetary and expenditure procedures in the Ministry of
Finance, have limited the flow of both external and counterpart funds. In addition, the line ministries
and agencies direcdy responsible for project implementation have become increasingly short of
adequate management and technical skills. Implementation problems also resulted from an unfocused
PSIP, with too many small, locally-financed projects taking up an increasing share of GOJ's scarce
funds and squeezing out counterpart funding. Where implementation problems have become
especially evident, in some infrastructure and social sectors, new aid commitments have begun to be
deferred. A major effort to improve implementation is crucial if GOJ is to succeed in restoring
economic and social infrastucture to normal levels and to improve Jamaica's external financing
situation.
40.          The serious deterioration in implementation performance was raised by all donors
during the CGCED sub-group meeting on Jamaica in June 1992, based on a detailed review of GOJ's
PSIP conducted by the Bank. As a result, GOJ has since undertaken a detailed review of its financial
and administrative procedures at Cabinet level and is taking remedial actions. In addition to revising
budgetary procedures, GOJ selected 20 major foreign-funded projects (accounting for 80% of planned
PSIP expenditures) for "fast-track" implementation; and provided them with adequate local
counterpart financing in the 1992/93 budget. Rect disbursement figures indicate an improved pace



- 12 -
of implementation, in FY93, but regaining fully satisfactory levels will require sustained efforts by
GOJ and the Bank.
41.          The Bank, on its part, will strengthen supervision efforts as well as donor
coordination on this crucial issue. As part of this continuing effort, a review of the entire portfolio
will be made during a Country Implementation Review (CIR) to be held shortly in Kingston. Where
necessary, we wi1l restructure projects to reflect implementation constraints and increase the
disbursement percentages in selected cases, especially in the social sectors, to 80%. This process is
already ongoing. Continued dialogue on implementation will also be pursued in the context of the
Public Sector Expenditure Review scheduled for FY94, and at the next CGCED meeting scheduled
for June 1994.
IDC and 1MGA Initiatives
42.          The Bank has worked closely with IFC and MIGA to support private sector
development in Jamaica. While it has generally taken the lead on the regulatory framework, IFC and
MIGA have participated as appropriate. IFC investments have included participation in the tourism,
construction, manufacturing and agribusiness sectors and, especially since 1989, in Jamaican banks
and other financial institutions. Improved confidence in the economy has resulted in increased
opportunities for IFC operations. It is exploring new possibilities that include tourism venures,
private investment in power generation, telecommunications, the privatization of Air Jamaica, and
further inve tments in mining, manufacturing and agriculture, as well as capital market development.
MIGA's national investment promotion conference in Jamaica in February 1991, organized in
cooperation with Bank staff, made a valuable contribution to restoring investor confidence.
Coopeato  wth othe Mul_ilateral  tltuonq
43.          The Bank has worked very closely with the IMF throughout the adjustment process
and in monitoring macroeconomic developments. Donors have co-financed some of our adjustment
loans, and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) supported the adjustment program with sector
investment loans. With investment lending there has been a complementary division of labor in the
roads, water, and education sectors. For instance, the IDB focuses more on primary education, while
the Bank, through this project, concentrates on lower secondary education. There is also close
coordination with the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) in operations in Jamaica.
&!mMa A_esmt
44.          GOJ has made substantial progress over the last few years in creating an appropriate
policy framework for restoring and enhancing its growth potential. At this stage, however, adequate
private sector investment has yet to materialize. GOJ will face a serious challenge over the next few
years to maintak the consistency of economic signals, in particular through continued progress with
fiscal policy. The main risk is that there could be slow progress and inadequate adjustments in
response to changes in the external environment and the domestic economy. Should this happen,
Jamaica would delay fuirther the realization of its growth potential.
45.          If GOJ pursues vigorously its current reform agenda, and takes corrective actions to
respond to exernal pressures, the Bank should be ready to increase its assistance, as proposed above.
Should GOJ soften its policy stance and fisca effort, however, the case for furither strong Bank
support would be undermined and the Bank would focus only on the social sectors and infrsructure



- 13 -
rehabilitation. Overall progress by GOJ will be assessed against the quantitative macroeconomic
targets and the detaled policy reform agenda, spelled out in GOJ's MTFP and in the EFF
arrangement. In addition, the proposed PSDAL will include further conditionality on trade reform,
divestment, and deregulation. The Bank also monitors progress on the social sectors, including the
specific commitments to increase the share of the PSIP devoted to education, health and nutrition,
through the annual reviews of the HRDP. It will be expecting, with improved public sector
efficiency, a more focused role of the Government and a recovery of project implementation
performance to earlier levels. The success of the present adjustment efforts will ultimately be judged,
however, on whether the Government succeeds in moving the economy from its past pattern of stop-
and-go policies to a path of sustainable growth.
PART II. THE PROPOSED LOAN
46.          lln d. The deterioration of the economy in the 1970s and early 1980s and the
weakmess of economic management led to deep and ill-targeted cuts in Government social
expenditures. Budgetary pressures increased such that by 1986, real outlays in education were 25%
lower than in 1981 and in health 35% lower. There was an accompanying deterioration in the quality
and capacity to deliver social services. In response, the Government of Jamaica (GOJ) introduced the
Human Resources Developmemt Program (HDP) in 1988, with assistance from the Bank, to provide
a cohesive policy framework for the Govenment's core social strategy and to restore adequate levels
of finance for the social sectors, with particular emphasis on the poor. The main challenge now
facing the HRDP is to shift the policy agenda from expanding coverage of social services to more
complex analytical issues of improving their quality and efficiency, including better targeting. One of
the principal policy objectives in education is to improve the quality and equity of basic education
(Grades 1-9).
47.          EducoMon Sedor. Jamaica has placed great emphasis on education throughout its
modern history evidenced by average net enrollment rates of 98% at the primary level and 82% at the
lower secondary level (Grades 7-9). Female participation rates are among the highest in the world.
Jamaica's high coverage rates, however, mask a number of shortcomings, particularly at the lower
secondary level. Poor quality and basic inequity of educational instruction characterize the education
syste.m today. Educational achievement is generally low, with high levels of functionally illiterate
students leaving primary and entering secondary schools (48% in 1989) and very low performance on
terminal exams at the secondary level. A highly stratified and inequitable system of resource
allocation among different types of schools at the secondary level is reflected in large disparities in
facilities, instructional quality, learning materials, and institutional support. Only 14% of children
entering Grade 7 are awarded places in the relatively well-resourced prestigious traditional high
schools that lead to post-secondary education and ultimately good prospects for employment
opportunities. In contrast, the "All-Age" schools comprise over 40% of junior secondary enrollment,
serve the poorest socio-economic levels of students, yet receive the lowest levels of resource
allocation and educational inputs. About half of those who finish Grade 9 in All-Age schools are
functionally illiterate. Given that nearly 40% of students leave school and enter the labor force at the
end of Grade 9, the lower secondary cycle plays a critical role in establishing the basis for lifelong
literacy, numeracy and other employment-related skills. Another issue requiring attention is the
inability of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) to employ education data to evaluate and
monitor the impact of existing or proposed policy changes. The current MOEC testing system,
comprised of six largely redundant tests, fails to provide key information required for monitoring



- 14-
education quality over time. This limits the accuracy of policy analysis to efficiently allocate scarce
sectoral resources.
48.          Although as a share of non-debt public expenditures, education rose from 19% in
1981 to 22% in 1991, when debt service is included, education expenditures actually fell from 15% to
12% over the same period-the result of high debt service and fiscal austerity measures. As a share
of GDP, education spending also fell from about 7% in 1981 to a low of around 4% in 1985, and has
since recovered only to about 5 % at present. The decline has been a contributory factor to a marked
deterioration in quality, where a shrinking budget has had the greatest impact on non-salary recurrent
expenditures such as those for instructional materials, maintenance and quality training programs.
49.          The Government has responded to these issues by adopting the goals of: (a) targeting
resources to ensure equal opportunity for all children in Grades 1-9 to receive a high quality
education following a common curriculum; (b) reallocating expenditures to focus on basic education
(Grades 1-9), while generating additional resources from cost recovery, increased community
participation, and other private sources; and (c) monitoring trends in achievement, through a
rationalized examination system that will support improved policy analysis. Low quality of primary
inmsruction in Grades 1-6 is currently being addressed by revising the curriculum and providing
related complementary inputs; it will continue to be strengthened, under the HRDP framework with a
wide range of bilateral and multilateral (including Bank) support. The remaining agenda is to
improve the quality of education for all students in Grades 7 through 9, with emphasis on the schools
serving the poorest students. The Reform of Secondary Education (or ROSE), officially adopted in a
Cabinet decision of May 1991, will be a 15-year program consisting of three five-year phases. In
each phase, schools will be selected according to clearly defined criteria (which take into account
equity considerations), and will receive the new common curriculum and related inputs of teacher and
principal training, textbooks and resource materials, equipment, furniture and selected refurbishing of
facilities.
50.          Project Objectires. The principal objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the
quality, efficiency and equity of lower secondary edacation (Grades 7-9), with particular emphasis on
schools serving the poorest students, by providing the necessary educational inputs and support
services for Phase I of a 15-year junior secondary reform program; (b) strengthen the capacity of the
MOEC to plan and monitor the impact of the reform through improved evaluation and management
systems; and (c) strengthen the Government's capacity to undertake sophisticated social policy
analysis and use the results in formulating more effective and targeted sjcial programs.
51.          Proec l)sapo. The project includes three components: Secondary Reform
Support; Evaluation and Management Strengthening; and Social Policy Analysis. Secondary Reform
Suppot (82.4% of total project costs) would include: (a) the introduction of a common curriculum in
Grades 7-9; (b) related pre-service and in-service training of teachers and school administrators; (c)
provision of textbooks; (d) provision of educational support materials; (e) improvements in, and
limited new construction of, physical infrastructure for schools adopting the common curriculum; and
(f) studies and pilot programs for improving upper secondary education (Grades 10-13). Evali
and Management Strenathening (8.7% of project costs) would include: (a) rationalizing the
examination system by reducing the redundancy and improving the utility of exams for selection,
certification and monitoring trends by developing a new Grade 9 Test; (b) establishing a secondary
Reform Management Team to ensure that the reform is adequately supported and integrated into all
the relevant MOEC functionra units; (c) conducting a public awareness campaign to inform key
stakeholders and the general public about the benefits of the reform; (d) developing an evaluation



- 15 -
system to monitor the impact of the new curriculum on student achievement; and (e) preparing the
second five-year phase of the reform. Social Policy Analysis (8.9% of total project costs), would
improve the capacity of the Government to undertake sophisticated social policy analysis and
formulate more effective and targeted social sector programs through: (a) the establishment of a
Social Policy Analysis Unit in the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) to identify topics for policy
analysis, perform and contract out research, provide training and dissemination mecbanisms to social
sector line ministries; (b) in-service training for policy makers and researchers in key social sector
ministries in research methodology and social policy analysis; (c) support to the University of the
West Indies (UWI) to upgrade faculty and graduate training in policy analysis and to establish a Data
Bank at the Institute of Economic and Social Research (ISER); and (d) support to the Statistical
Institute of Jamaica (STATIN) to implement the Survey of Living Conditions (SLC). The cofinancing
provided by the Government of the Netherlands will support exclusively the third component.
Retroactive financing for an amount to cover US$3.0 million for consultants' services and incremental
recurrent costs, incurred after March 1, 1993, is provided. Breakdowns of the costs and financing
are shown in Schedule A. The relatively high share of Bank support (79%) is deemed necessary
given: (a) the substantial deterioration of Jamaica's capacity to mobilize domestic resources, given
fiscal constraints and high debt servicing requirements; and (b) the project's emphasis on serving the
educational needs of the poorest segments of the population. Arrangements for procurement and
disbursements are given in Schedule B. The timetable of key events for project processing is
summarized in Schedule C and the status of Bank Group Operations in Jamaica in Schedule D. A
map is attached. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 11534-JM, dated March 4, 1993, is also attached.
52.          Project Manafemeit and Impilementaion. The MOEC will be the executing agency
for the first two components and the PIOJ will implement the third. The establishment of the Reform
'Management Team, chaired by the Permanent Secretary and composed of a National Coordinator plus
MOEC department directors, will help to ensure the necessary flexibility in implementation to allow
the reform process to benefit from lessons learned in the early years of the project, and to integrate
all ministry departments affected by the reform throughout the process. The Social Policy Analysis
Unit in the PIOJ will be responsible for: implementing training programs in the sector ministries;
administering technical assistance provided to UWI and the line ministries; disbursing funds for
research to be conducted through UWI and for SLC activities; and, coordinating formal liikage
mechanisms leading to a program of research in support of HRDP objectives.
53.          S            . The project will support the first 5 year phase of a 15-year reform
program. The establishment of the Reform Management Team, which will outlive the project, will be
vital for the remaining phases of the reform. The recurrent costs generated by the project are
minimal and represent less than 2% of the MOEC's recurrent budget. In addition, the existing
textbook rental scheme will be extended to cover all schools with grades 7-9 and thus reduce the
recurrent costs to the Government of textbook replacement.
54.          Lemons learned firom Previous Bank Involvement. The Bank has made four loans
totaling US$38 million to support education in Jamaica since 1966. Based on a review of audit and
supervision reports, the main lessons emerging from past projects have been to: (a) allow for adequate
planning and advanced preparation, especially for projects requiring policy decisions; (b) pay greater
attention to institutional arrangements for project implementation, especially if the project is broad-
based in scope; (c) ensure flexibility in both project design and implementation arrangements should a
project need to be adapted to changing circumstances; and (d) ensure timely and adequate release of
project finances through budgetary channels. These lessons are taken into account in the design of the
proposed project. Substantial advance planning and preparation has been carried out under the Fourth



- 16 -
Education Project and with a Japanese Grant Facility. The Reform Management Team approach
addresses issues raised with respect to (b) and (c). Finally, Ministry of Finance (MOF) officials have
been kept informed during project preparation and a condition for loan effectiveness will require that
adequate budgetary releases for this proposed project and the three other social sector projects funded
by the Bank are assured for FY 1993/94 (Schedule D). In addition, a Country Implementation
Review is scheduled for March 1993 to address implementation issues that are common to Bank-
supported projects, including the availability of funds from the MOF to implementing ministries
throughout the fiscal year. Lastly, the Bank will continue to monitor the release of resources to the
social sectors (both retrospectively and projected) through the HRDP Annual Review.
55.          Rtionaoe for Bank Involvement. As described in Part 1, the Bank's country
assistance strategy is aimed at supporting the GO in the investment of social services and the
development of human capital. Within the social sectors, the Bank's central role in assisting the GOJ
to formulate, execute and monitor the HRDP has resulted in the development of an integrated
approach to social sector development and poverty alleviation, with coordinated donor support for
these efforts. The proposed project builds upon the Bank's substantial involvement in the education
sector and supports one of the central priorities of the MOEC's Five Year Plan and the HRDP:
improving the efficiency and quality of basic education (Grades 1-9), with a particular focus on
schools serving the poorest students. Other major donors are already tackling the issues of efficiency
and quality at the primary level. In a mutually reinforcing manner, this project will address these
same issues at the last three grades of the basic education cycle, namely Grades 7-9. The project also
draws on the recommendations and analysis of the Bank's regional study Access, Quaity and
Effdiency in Cribbean Edation. Finally, the ongoing Fourth Education Project was designed
specifically to assist the MOEC in building the conceptual and analytical framework for the reform of
lower secondary education and to pilot the introduction of a common curriculum (including related
training and evaluation activities) which forms the core of the reform program.
56.          eed Actions. During negotiions, the Government: (a) agreed to submit to the
Bank no later than September 15 of each year the specific schools to be selected for the following
academic year, based on specific crteria; (b) agreed to adopt a policy by August 15, 1993 regarding a
comprehensive textbook rental scheme at the lower secondary level, including a mechanism to identify
and support those unable to pay; (c) provided written guarantee that proposed project, as well as the
three existing World Bank social sectors projects (Social Sectors Development Project (Ln. 311 1-JM)
the Population and Health Project (Ln. 285 1-JM), and the Education Program Preparation and Student
Loan Project (Ln. 2899-4M), would be given priority in budgetary and warrant allocations for
1993/94; (d) agreed to present to the Bank during the HRDP Annual Review (or in any case not later
than March 31 of each year), the draft budget submission for the forthcoming year of the project; (e)
agreed to allocate in its annual budget to be proposed to Parliament the funds, in an amount
satisfactory to the Bank, necessary to implement the project in each fiscal year; (t) agreed that
counterpart financing and external resources, satisfactory to the Bank, would be released to
implementing agencies on a timely basis (i.e. notification of quarterly warrants be provided within
two weeks of the start of any quarter); (g) provided assurance that the UWI under the Social Policy
Analysis component would assume its share of the incremental recurrent costs; (b) agreed that the
MOEC and the PIOJ would conduct, with prior approval of the terms of reference by the Bank, a
Mid-term Implementation Review, not later than March 31, 1996, including the assessment of
selected output indicators; (i) agreed to carry out annual reviews of the project in conjunction with the
HRDP Annual Review exercise (or in any case, not later than March 31st), including policy and
financial targets as contained in the HRDP Policy Matrix; and, O) agreed that not later than March
31, 1994, it would submit to the Bank annual targets, satisfactory to the Bank, for the share of the



- 17-
MOEC recurrent expenditures that would be allocated for Grades 7-9. As conditions of loan
effectiveness, the Government will: (a) complete the appointment of the MAOEC's Reform
Management Team's Secretariat professional staff and fill 50 percent of the newly created posts in the
MOEC to be supported by the project; (b) sign an Agreement with the Bank as Administrator for a
grant from the Government of the Netherlands for cofinancing the proposed project; (c) submit the
1993/94 Parliamentary approved budget for the proposed project as well as three existing World
Bank-financed projects in the social sectors, satisfactory to the Bank, which reflect line ministries'
submission of realistic implementation schedules; and (d) confirm that the MOEC has signed an
agreement with the JBTE for training activities which the JBTE will carry out. Finally, as a
condition of disbursement for the Survey of Living Conditions sub-component (to be reflected in the
Netherlands Grant Agreement), STATIN will have instituted a plan to implement the
recommendations forthcoming from the data quality review satisfactory to the Bank for the
improvement of data quality.
57.          Envro          mpact. The project does not present environmental risks other than
the relatively minor ones associated with construction of schools. These will be addressed in the
design and approval stage of investment subprojects.
58.          ProaMg    Objecftv. Categories. The project is primarily under the human resource
development POC, and is part of the core poverty intervention program. Students from low income
families will be the primary beneficiaries of the project because of the selection of All-Age and New
Secondary schools, which together cater to nearly 80% of the poorest population quintile in Grades
7-9. Improved social policy analysis will enhance the GOJ's capacity to target its resources. Other
contnrbutions to program objectives will be improved public sector management. Given that females
generally have a higher school participation rate than males in Jamaica, there is no perceived need for
a specific focus on women in this project.
59.          Isoed 1_. The project would assist the Government in achieving two central
education objectives: (a) to improve the quality and equity of basic education, specifically Grades 7-9;
and (b) to strengthen the system's capacity to plan and monitor improvements in the quality of
education. The increase in educational expendiures for basic education will help redress imbalances
in the allocation of public sector resources among different levels of education, by directing more
resources to higher-yielding lower education levels. Improved relevance and quality of basic
education would ultimately provide better trained and trainable manpower for the economy. Higher
overall levels of achievement and increased resources targeted on the poorest groups of students
would enhance efficiency in the use of public sector resources. A rationalized exam system would:
reduce the redundancy and cost of exams in the education system, and evenuBally postpone the
selection of students for academic streams until Grade 9; provide studens leaving the education
system at Grade 9 with school leaving certificates reflecting a recognized level of achievement for
potential employers; and provide a reliable measure of learning output for policy analysis. In
addition, improved social policy analysis through a relevant research agenda will help the Govermment
to more effectively target scarce resources for social sector programs.
60.          Pnjed lisk. Principal project risks relate to: (a) budgetary constraints leading to
the scarcity of both counterpart fimds and the release of external resources; (b) potential backlash
from those benefitting from the existing elitist system; and (c) weak implementation capacity,
particularly regarding civil works. With regad to (a), the Bank's financing of a high share (79%) of
project costs as well as planned cofinancing (6%) would reduce the need for counterpart funding, thus
easing the GOJ's fiscal burden. In addition, the Bank will monitor the maintence of sector



- 18-
priorities in the context of Annual Reviews of progress towards social sector objectives as reflected in
the proposed project and the Human Resource Development Program (HRDP), also supported by the
Bank. These priorities have recently been reflected consistently in other policy statements issued by
the Government (the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP), the Medium Term Policy Framework
and the Letter of Devttopment Policy in the proposed Private Sector Development Adjustment Loan).
With regard to Q,), the MOEC has Olready begun a phased public education campaign, which the
project will support, to ensure that all of the relevant stakeholders recognize the benefits of the
reform. Representatives of groups potentially opposed to the reform have been brought into the
development process early in the reform planning stages. Finally regarding (c), the MOEC has
adopted an integrated management approach to the reform program rather than a stand-alone PIU
which will provide: flexibility in managing and implementing both the reform and the project; and
ensure that the far-reaching aspects of the reform are infused in all areas of the Ministry.
Components with substantial or specialized manpower requirements, such as the day-to-day
management of civil works execution, will be contracted out under the overall supervision of the
MOEC's Reform Management Team.
61.          Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 4, 1993



ANNEX I
-19-                               Page 1 of2
JAMAICA COUINTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Poliqy Issues in Proposed FY93-97 Lending
Objectivelluutwuent                               issues
Consoidate StaUizadon and
bIceae Pablic Setor IffOcienc
Public Sector Reform           o   Improve efficiency and focus of public
expenditures
o   Streamline central Government and reduce
duplication of functions
0   Strengthen staffing and pay in central ministries
* Strengthen regulatory functions and cost recovery
policies
Privatization                  o   Accelerate divestment of publ.c enterprises,
including utilities
o Regutatory reform to encourage competition
Reform Tax System              *  Reduce exemptions to GCT and income tax
o   Reduce discretion in granting incentives
o   Improve tax and customs administration
Pivate Sector Deveopment
Trade Liberalization           *   Maintain competitive real exchange rate
o   Meet and accelerate the CARICOM schedule for
tariff reform
* Reduce administrative barriers to exports
Enabling Environment           *   Streamline investment approval procedures
*   Pass legislation to improve competition
* Deregulate sugar and petroleum sectors
*   Develop capital markets
e Strengthen export promotion services
Infrastructure Development     e   Strengthen GOJ institutions to implement
infrastructure projects - Ministry of Construction
and related agencies
e   Develop appropriate regulatory framework
(Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and
Energy) and support institutional strengthening of
National Water Commission and Jamaica Public
Service Co. (power)
* Encourage private sector participation and cost
recovery in utilities and transport sectors
 Improvements in urban transport policies



- 2t) -                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
Obje3ectbvme/t                                    lbsse
Povep"  Redcin and
Impwovement In Detivey of
Soil Seike
Policy Framework               o   Promote employment-generating growth to reduce
poverty
* Improve efficiency and delivery of services within
Human Resource Development Program (HRDP)
policy framework
Increase share of expenditures for primary health
care and basic education
o Improve implementation of externally funded
projects
Education                      o   Implement broad reform of basic education (grades
1-9)
*   Improve 4uality of education
Increase community participation
Health                         *   Strengthen referral system
a   Improve cost recovery (hospital, drugs, etc.)
e   Public/private provision of health services
Nutrition                      o   Target social assistance to vulnerable groups
dtrough food stamps and school nutrition programs
Skoustabke Devepment
Environmental Protection       *   Strengthen capacity of national environmental
institutions (NRCA)
*   Improve incentive regime for water and land use,
including legislation
*   Address watershed protection and water pollution
problems through investments also focusing on
rural/urban poverty alleviation
Promote Energy                 e   Strengthen programs for energy demand
Conservation                       managemen (GEF)



- 21 -
Schodule A
JAMAICA
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
lEimatd Costs and PlFancing Pla=
d :Locad    Eoreign     IToal
US$ million
Seconday Refrm Support
Common Curriculum  1.4         0.4          1.8
ROSE Training     4.8          0.1          4.9
Education Materials  0.4       1.7          2.1
Textbooks         0.3          0.8          1.1
Infrastructure    9.9          5.9         15.8
Upper Sec Strategy  1.1        0.0          1.1
Evaluation and Managsment Strengtheniny
Exam Rationalization 0.3       0.5          0.8
ROSE Management  0.8           0.2          1.0
Public Campaign    0.2         0.0          0.2
ROSE Evaluation    0.4         0.2          0.6
ROSE Phase II Prep 0.3         0.0          0.3
Poli  Analysis and Maement
Policy Analysis Unit 1.4       0.2          1.6
Line Ministies    0.1          0.1          0.2
UWI               0.3          0.4          0.7
SLC               0.4          0.2          0.6
Total Base Costs       22.1         10.6         32.7
Physical Contingencies    0.9       0.6          1.5
Price Contingencies    5.7          0.8          6.5
Totl Project Costs     28.7         12.0         40.7
US$ million
IBRD                   20.9         11.1         32.0
Netherlands              1.8         0.9          2.7
Government              6.0          0.0          6.0
Total                  28.7         12.0         40.7
"'Inlding taxes and duties, which are negligible. Totak my no ad de to ronng.



- 22 -                                     M2&& R
(page 1 of 2)
JAMAICA
REFOllM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
cm e Mgtboids andisuome
(US$ M;lons)
Category of EXPenitre                                       TOTAL
ICB    LCB    Other    NBP  COST
1. Work                      3.9   11.0                     14.9
(3.4)   (9.6)                (13.0)
2. Goods
Puitre                      1.8                            1.8
(1.8)                          (1.8)
Equ1nt                      1.9            0.2b     0.?   2.3
(1.9)         (0.2)            (2.1)
Vehioles                                   0.02            0.02
(0.02)         (0.02)
Materias                           0.6    0.2              0.8
(0.6)  (0.2)           (0.8)
Texdtooks                                  0.9b            0.9
(0.9)          (0.9)
3. Tethnicl Assstae                          6.7     0.93    7.6
(6.7)          (6.7)
4. Studies, Pilot Program                    1.9    0.6'    2.5
(1.9)          (1.9)
S. Training, Workshops                       4.3     0.2'    4.5
(4.3)          (4.3)
6. Operaion & Mintanoo                       2.2     0.2r    2.4
(0.3)          (0.3)
7. Increment Staff                           2.0     0.3'    2.3
(0.2)          (0.2)
8. Supplies, SLC Field Codsa                 0.4     0.3    0.7
(0.05)         (0.05)
7.6   11.6   18.8    2.7    40.7
Total                        (7.1)  (10.2)  (14.8)         (32.0)
Note:    Figures in parethess are the respective amon financed by the Bank l<n.
NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
a. Co-financed in paralel by &he Government of the Nethedands; prooured in confornity with World Bank Gidelnes:
Procuremem wder IBRD Loas and ADA Credits (Washington, D.C., May 1985), and G3fdelines for die Use of
Consukan by World Bank Borrowers and by die World Bank as &ecutg Agency (Augut 1981).
b. Limied int onal bidding (LIB).



- 23                                 Schedule B
(page 2 of 2)
Disbusements by Catefory
The loan will disburse the following percentages, by category of expenditure:
e     85 percent of civil works
o     100 percent of equipment, furniture, vehicles, educational materials and textbooks
     100 percent of technical assistance, training, fellowships, studies and pilot programs
o     50 percent of incremental recurrent costs up to an aggregate of US$235,800;
thereafter 40 percent of incremental recurrent costs up to an aggregate of
US$783,800; and 20 percent of incremental recurrent costs thereafter up to an
aggregate of US$1,598,300.
Estimated IBRD Disbursements (US$ million)
IBRD FY       1924   195   1996  X27    1998   1999   2000  2Q01
Annual        2.0    2.6    6.4    6.4      6.4    5.2    2.6    0.4
Cumulative    2.0    4.6    11.0   17.4    23.8   29.0   31.6   32.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.



- 24 -
Schedule C
JAMAICA
REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
limetable for Key Project Processing Dates
(a) Time taken to prepare  16 months:
June 1991       Identification
November 1991   Preparation
July 1992        Pre-Appraisal
October 1992     Appraisal
(b) First Bank Mission        June 1991
(c) Appraisal Mission Departure   October 1992
(d) Date of Negotiations      February 1993
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness  June 1993
(f) Relevant PCRS and PPARs:
Credit/Loan No.  Project            PCR Date              PPAR No. & Date
Ln. 0468-JM   First Education Project   July, 1974       No. 0649 March 1975
Ln. 0727-JM   Second Education Project June 30, 1981     No. 4161 November 1982
Ln. 0690-JM   First Population Project   October 31, 1978  No. 2580 June 29, 1979
Ln. 1284-JM   Second Population Project February 9, 1984  No. 5589 April 1985
Ln. 2070-JM   Third Education Project  March 27, 1989    No. 9602 May 1991



-25-                                   Schedule  D
STATUS OF UANI ORMU 0PEATt0NS IN IMICA
....... .................._.....
A. Statcant of lank LOaW  as of December 31, 1992
.................................. ......                                   ....... M U-. M lliton ......
Credit    Ffset                                                                  (Lose Canellettton
No.        Year/i Borrwor        Purpose                                         Bank          Ufdf ursad
......     ...... .. ......      ........                                        .. .    -.    . .................. .. 
43 Loars futly disbursed /1                                                     7645
of whfch SECALr, SALs and trogram tons /2
2105-41   192   Jamaiea         Struetural Adjustmt t                           76.2
2315-.t  1983    amaica         Strutural Adjustment It                          0.2
2478-J4   1985   Jamica         Strueturel Adjustmnt III                        53.0
2848-4J  1987   JaMIce          Trde4 and FinAnce Sector Adjustmnt              40.0
2849-J3   1981   jamica         PublIt Enterprise Setor AdIustwtt               20.0
3174-J  199 t      amaic        Agriculture Sector Adjua nt                      25.0
3303-41    199    .iaica        Trade end Fifnace Sector Adjustmet It            30.0
Subtatat            306.4
2389-J4t  1984   Jamaica        Urban Trasport                                   16.0               $.1
2422.434   1984    Jamaica     Water Supply md  Sewrage T.A. Rehabititation      .0                2.8
MS0-414  1987    amaica         Sugar Rehabilitation                            34.0                6.0
2851-434   1987   Jamaica       Population and Health                            10.0               7.3
2869-JN4  1987   Jamf ca        Fourth Power                                     18.0               2.8
2S99-J1   1988   Jamaica        Education                                        8.3                1.S
362 -J    1989   JamaICa        Clererdon Alumina Prodicton                      15.0              11.6
3111-41J  1990  Jiafmca         Social Sector 0Ovelopnant                       30.0               26.3
32753411   199O    Jamlea       Road Infrastructure Pla,ing                     35.0               28.8
3386-rn   191   Jamice         Financial ard Program Manegeat Iaprovment    11.5                   9.6
3502-41    1993/3  Jaalea       Energy Sector oeregulation                       60.0              60.0
Total (not of cancellations)                       1011 .3
of which has been repald                            378.6
Total nwo outstanding                               632
Amount   Sold                                 1.6
of whfch has been repald                   1.6      0.0
Total Now Held by  ank                              632.7
total Undisbursed                                                      161.8
-.......................
/1  Including a telaecmmfexation  loon  ed. in 1967 to the Jamaican TlethOe  Company
Nd the Third Export  eolopmmnt fuWd loan made in 1983 awhbequently canelled.
/2 Approved uiring or after FYO.
/3 Not yet a1nsd
S. Statmet of IFC    etments as of Oecater 31, 1992
..... .......  _...................
Investment fiscal                                  Typ of
IAhe r    Year    ilorrar                          uwifs.                        Loan    Equity   Total
............. .................. .......           .......... ....... ......... ...... .... ..... ..
03B     1961    Jmfica Pre-Nx Ltd.              CantnS I   Centr. Materfals     0.2      -        0.2
136     1969    P985mm  Motels of Jlamca        Tourism                        2.2       0.7      2.9
542     19      Vest Indies Glas  Compan         te G antaines                  2.3      -        2.3
598     1982   Jsica Flour Nilto Limted         Food and Food Processing        5.0               5.0
818     1985   The falcen Find                  Guarantee racltity              2.5      *        2.5
815     198    Eastern Ba   Estate I/           food and Food Procsing          3.7      0.4      4.1
907     19J6   St. gary's Saa Eatatee Ltd. Food a  Fee Proesirn                 3.8      1.1      4.9
1129     1989  Etat Mehant Bank                   eroiat Dan                     5.0               5.0
1130     1989   Jameic  Cftize   Dank            Coinrclo*                       5.0               5.0
1131     199   Mutml Securfty Sk                 Cemwciat  Wak                   5.0      *        5.0
Total Groos Comitmants                                         34.7      2.2    36.9
Less Cancollatione  Termfnatin, Portfilpetlo..                          .        2.6
Sales and Repaypants                                        2t5       1.1     " .
Total comliwents nou held by IFC                                        7.2      1.1      83
Total Undisbursed (Including Partficpants)                              0.0
....................... I
I/ lmtrnt umtotatly canceaod



t2   ua. tAB A@\A                                   #80                          7fO(Y                        ?6'817S
c~~~~~, ~e
JAMAICA
ME0 saw ea6 Main AJ Ro                                                                                             &loted TOws
CARISSFAIV                                MMAIIW                           Main Secondary Rtoadst          FPrish Capitals
SEA
JAMAICA                               1477        460                 main Ports                      ONatkaa Captal
- 1             *           591          180               kiternatonal Aiports      ..... Pariah Boundaries
IS          A*0                                                        U&%~~ R~ISO0
n80                       C A R I B BE A N
CORNWALL                                    g 0                       EA
_ _ _ __A_S S E                                           A
RMIDDLESEX , 
0       ,   0    ,   0    s  30  tiDES                              E-*                                A      .OU ~  U         
l    O   X   w   w   "                                                        S    tw ___*tS B~~u"   SRRE
- I. .. I  I  .  - l.O  P     I  _
maw               7f8iY~~~~~~"M



