Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
NETHERLANDS GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3580 JM
Netherlands Grant Agreement
(Reform of Secondary Education)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT 
as Administrator on behalf of the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated September 1, 1993
Page  2
NETHERLANDS GRANT RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 3580 JM
NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 1, 1993, between JAMAICA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the BANK), acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
grant funds provided by the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION 
OF THE NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS: (A) pursuant to a Loan Agreement (Reform of Secondary 
Education Project), dated May 7, 1993, between the Recipient  and the Bank (the 
Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to extend to the Recipient a loan (the 
Loan) in an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million Dollars 
($32,000,000) to assist in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement (the Project);
WHEREAS: (B) pursuant to an agreement dated December 11, 1986 
between the Minister and the Bank (the Arrangement), the Minister has 
appointed the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer grant funds to be 
made available by the Minister for the financing of certain programs and projects 
supported by the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of the Arrangement;
WHEREAS: (C) the Minister has agreed to make available to the Recipient 
a
grant out of said grant funds (the Grant) to assist the Recipient in carrying out 
Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS: (D) the Minister and the Bank have agreed to amend the 
Schedule to the Arrangement for purposes of including the Project therein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i) Article 
I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
Page  3
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01(8), 6.02(f) and the last use of such 
term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as 
Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the Arrangement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement, except that in Section 
6.02(a), the term "Loan Agreement" means the Loan 
Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by 
Page  4
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the Grant is credited; and
(vi)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made 
in Dutch guilders; provided, however, that if the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the 
Recitals to this Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following terms have the following 
meanings:
(a) 
"Dutch guilders" and "DGL" mean the currency of the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands; and
(b) 
"Dutch Special Account" means the account to be opened by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in 
an amount of four million nine hundred  and twenty-three thousand one 
hundred ninety nine Dutch guilders (DGL 4,923,199).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part C 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Part C of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dutch guilders a special deposit account in Bank of Jamaica on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and 
payments out of the Dutch Special Account shall be made mutatis
mutandis
in 
Page  5
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, provided, 
however, that the amount of the "Authorized Allocation" referred to in 
paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement shall be an amount 
equivalent to nine hundred thousand Dutch guilders (DGL 900,000) or such 
other amount as the Administrator may specify.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultant services required for Part C of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later 
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Administrator shall not be obliged to make any payment 
under this Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds of the 
Grant from the Minister.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III, 
IV and Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement, including the Schedule referred to 
therein, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and 
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references 
in said Articles and Section  to the "Bank", the "Borrower", the "Loan" and the 
"Special Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator, the 
Recipient, the  Grant and the Dutch Special Account, respectively.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a) 
carry out a study of the SLC data quality;
(b) 
promptly upon the completion of such study, present to the Bank 
the results of such study and its recommendations, allowing a reasonable time 
for its review and comments thereon;
(c) 
based on the results and recommendations of such study, and 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, present to the Bank, not later 
than 30 days after the date in which the Bank sent its comments to the Recipient, 
a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of such study; and
Page  6
(d) 
implement such plan of action referred to in paragraph (c) above in 
a manner and under a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective on the Effective 
Date (as that term is defined in the General Conditions) of the Loan Agreement, 
and the Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such date.
(b) 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto shall 
terminate if the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions for failure to become effective.
Section 4.02. Subject to Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, this Agreement 
shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to 
this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4
Jamaica
Fax:
Telex:
  (809) 924 9291
        2447 FINANCEJA
For the Administrator
Page  7
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names as of the day and year first above written.
JAMAICA
By /s/ Richard Bernal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND 
  DEVELOPMENT,
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ M.G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
 Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated
% of
 (Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dutch Guilders)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
3,000,000
100%
services and
training for
Part C of the
Project
(2) Goods for
650,000
100%
Part C of
the Project
(3) Incremental
1,125,000
100% of incre- 
recurrent costs
mental recur-
for Part C of
rent costs up to 
the Project
DGL 521,600
equivalent; 80% 
thereafter up to
incremental recur-
rent costs of
DGL 999,400
equivalent; 50%
thereafter up to
incremental recur-
rent costs of
DGL 1,325,200
equivalent; and 
30% of incremental
recurrent costs
thereafter up to
an aggregate of
DGL 1,519,400
Page  9
equivalent
(4)
Unallocated
148,199
TOTAL
4,923,199
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, "recurrent costs" means payments for 
supplies, materials, allowances, operational and maintenance costs, and salaries 
of incremental staff and services, to the extent that such costs are incurred for 
purposes and as a result of the implementation of Part C of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date 
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to 
exceed DGL 490,000 equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1) 
through (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1993; (b) payments 
made for expenditures under Part C.3 of the Project unless the Subsidiary 
Agreement has been duly signed by, and is legally binding upon, the parties 
thereto; and (c)  payments made for expenditures under Part C.4 of the Project 
unless the Recipient has started the implementation of the plan of action referred 
to in Section 3.02(d) of this Agreement.
