                                  52741

    WORLD BANK IV STUDY

          JAMAICA
"REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION"




             ~
            LEARNING

              J"




    GE GOVERNMENT SERVICES 





          August, 1990
"t




          .'




     ,.
     ,
· I   · f




                          A STUDY OF THE REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION
                                JAMAICA - WORLD BANK lV - 1990


            Volume I
            Introduction and Executive Summary                                    1


            Chapter 1.      Part A - The Present System                        1A-1
                            Part B - The Context of Reform                     1B-1
            Chapter 2.      A Rationale for   Chang~                            2-1
            Chapter 3 ·     A Common Curriculum                                 3-1

            Chapter 4.      The Special Case of Technical/Vocational
                            Education in the Curriculum                         4-1
            Chapter 5.      Alternative Structures and Their Costs              5-1
            Chapter 6.      Teacher Education and Staff Development             6-1
            Chapter 7.      Implementation Strategies                           7-1
            Chapter 8.      Appendix A  The Role of the Education
                                          Officer                              8A-1
                            Appendix B  The Development of
                                           Curriculum Guides for the
                                           Seven Subjects of the
                                          Common Junior High
                                           Programme                           8B-1
                            Appendix C  The Role of an Integrator
                                           in Developing Curriculum
                                          Guides for Grades 7-9                8C-l
                            Appendix D  Coordination pf Textbook
                                          and Curriculum Policies              8D-1
                            Appendix E  The Mission and Operating
                                          Mode of the Educational
                                          Operations Division of
                                           the Ministry of Education           8E-1
                            Appendix F  A Foundation Grant Policy
                                           to Equalize Opportunity             8F-1
                            Appendix G  A National Assessment                  8G-1
                            Appendix H-
 Constraints on the Ministry
                                          of Education's Mission               8H-1



                                                                         iii
Volume II
THE REFORM OF SECONDARY TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN
JAMAICA - ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
                                                                           "   .}




     The Context
     Options for the Delivery of Secondary Tech/Voc Education
     Options for the Organization of Instructional Content
     General Implementation Issues and Ideas
     Technical Education ipthe Senior Secondary Cycle
     Implementation Strategy
     Appendix   A       Subject Offerings by Parish 

     Appendix   B -     Distribution of Vocati.onal Programs by parish 

     Appendix   C       Framework of a National Training Plan 

     Appendix   D   -   Facilities in Tech/Voc Subjects by School Type 

     Appendix   E   -   Achievement in Tech/Voc Subjects 

     Appendix   F   -   Partial Analysis of Cost per Subject 

     Appendix   G   -   Employer Needs and Perceptions of Training 





iv
                                                                           '.'":'
't' ,




                                       INTRODUCTION
                                            AND

                                    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

        This stud} summarizes the deliberations and conclusions of a
        number of consultants who were invited to consider proposals
        for the reform of secondary education in Jamaica. For a
        six-month period in 1989 and a one-month period in 1990. the
        study group addressed the terms of reference prepared by the
        Ministry of Education. i.e. the rationalization of existing
        institutional types. development of new curricula. and the
        feasibility of a unified lower secondary cycle. In 1983. a
        UNESCO report on education in Jamaica had suggested a common
        ~urriculum for the lower cycle of secondary schools.


        The proposals in the study are intended to establish a 

        lowe~-secondary curriculum which allows all students to have a 

        similar educational experience to the end of Grade 9. At the 

        same time. consideration is given to the institutional setting 

        in which this learning is to take place: to begin the process 

        of solving some of the chronic problems which are inherent in 

        the system. 

         The consultant team has found that most of the structural
         elements of a good school system exist in some form in
         Jamaica. Partly as a result of Jamaican ingenuity in the use
         of scarce resources and partly the result of projects from
         foreign agencies. there are institutions and organizations in
         place. They need. however. a unifying philosophy and a
        'systematic organizational approach in order to improve
         opportunity for more students.
        The unifying phi losophy required is that of ·equa I i ty of
        opportunity. While it is espoused now and was the original
        intention of many previous educational reforms. implementation                 J
        has been effectively sUbverted--:-Dy--a-seTectlOI'l"System~whTc'h                  /   '
        t.einforces self-ful~illing. a~d.usu~ltY:Ife~a_t:.~ye·-j.¥3!.(ymen..!:~ ~b~t
        students. In practlce. elltlsm controls toe system. Gooa
        teaching has been discouraged by examinations at every level of
        the primar~ and secondary schools.
        The study begins with an overview in Chapter 1 of the present
        system, the historical forces which still shape it. and the
        major problems which need to be addressed. These problems
        include the inequity in allocation of resources and facilities
        among different types of schools; the consequent unjust
        differ~nces in the quality of education provided; the lack of
        access to second-cycle secondary education for approximately
        SO% of the students. the injurious effects of selection
                                                                              1
                                                                       .,        ',"




examinations - particularly the Common Entrance Examination 
on the students and the curriculum at all levels of the
schools; the patchwork of school-leaving certificates; and the
idiosyncratic differences in the present-syllabi in the various
types of schools.
These features of thp pr(sent system provided a powerful
rationale for the cu_ricular and institutional proposals
developed in this study. The proposals for reform have been
placed in the context of the present economic realities of
Jamaica.
The major recommendation is the establishment of a common
junior-higb curriculum for all students in grades 7-9. This
curriculum will provide a general and broadly-based education
on which either job entry or further education at the
senior-secondary level can be based. It aims at correcting                  ".'-'
some of the problems identified such as chaotic diversity. and
narrowness. The recommended curriculum consists of seven
sub ject areas - AefU..betics,. _Language Arts (including a foreign
language), Mathemat.ics, personal/Family Studies. Science.
Social Studi"es -and Technology Studies. Suggested goals and                : -_.
emphases are suggested for each subject.
The details of the curriculum and teaching methods are best
designed indigenously, but two major suggestions are made. One
is for the adoption of mastery learning strategies which allow
students of different levels of readiness to learn at their
different rates and. as appropriate. with different
instructional methods. The second suggestion is to integrate
subjects wherever this is feasible.
Because it is y. ~_ew,app;pE.c;..tL.t.Q technical/vocational work in
the schools. ~~oloqy Stud~~~)is discussed both in Chapter 4                  .   "

and in considerably more depth in Volume II. Technology
Studies consolidates the various subjects now offered in the
technical/vocational programmes, and at the same time, focuses
on the student's understanding of the scientific principles
underlying technology and technological processes in everyday
l·if e.
Recommendations for focus and balance in the curriculum are
presented in Chapters ~ ana 4, and in the technical/vocational
supplement. Volume II. A curriculum. however. is not viable
until it is functioning within a school with teachers,
resources and facilities. including a social context which
enhances the motivation and the sense of self-worth of those




2
· t   ·   t




              who  work and study therein. The report therefore presents five
              alternative proposals for the structural reform of the school
              system.   These are:

                  o   Improvements in the present system.   This would leave
                      the present features intact but would target resources
                      t~ supervision of the common curriculum

                                             or

                  o   Expansion of high school enrollments through various
                      means such as the shift system and an increase in the
                      ·pupil-teacher ratio. This would address the problem of
                       access.

                                             or

                  o   Improvement of all-age schools.  This would target
                      resources to the least advantaged group. though the
                      features of the system would remain.

                                             or

                  o   Extension of the primary school to grade 8 or grade 9.
                      This would partly address the question of access.

                                             or

                  o   Creation of junior-hi·gh schools and programmes. or
                      departments. in all schools with grades 7-9 students.
                      This strategy directly addresses each of the problems
                      inherent in the system.                           ~

              The advantages and disadvantages of each reform strategy are
              discussed and tentative cost factors for each reform outlined.

              The study team recommends the last of the above alternatives
              because of its comprehensive solution to the system's
              problems.  Although apparently cost~y. a strong emphasis on an
              incremental implementation strategy ensures effective control
              by the Ministry of the rate of adoption of the policy and its
              associated costs.

              Adoption of ~he 'junior-high' strategy sugges~s that the
              following would be the ultima~e pattern of ~he types of
              secondary schools:

                  1.  High Schools, including Technical High Schools - with
                      junior-high and senior-high departments

                  2.  Primary/Junior-High Schools - former all-age schools



                                                                         3
           3.   Junior-High Schools - grades 7-9 only
           4.  Senior-High Schools - grades 10-11 or 10-13
                                               -



~
~
~
    \1
    i


     I
        ome new-secondary schools. and central all-age schools as in 

       the current experiment in St. Thomas. may convert to 

       junior-~igh schools.  Other new-secondary schools will convert 

       to junior/senior high schools. Some remote all-age schools
    l will have to offer the junior-high programme and will need
       extra help to become primary/junior-high schools. Some urban
       all-age schools will have to offer a junior-high programme. if
       they can meet the requirements outlined in Chapter 7. because      :·t
                                                                           . i
       no other accommodation for their grade 7-9 students will be
    \\ available for some years to come.
                                                                          ~,
                                                                          .    '

                                                                          .....
    L..)

      More senior-high pupil places will be needed to provide
      increased access to senior cycle secondary education for those
      who graduate from junior-high schools and departments.
      The mix and location of schools will depend on the School
      ~~Eping Project now nearing completion in the Planning Unit of
      the Ministry of Education. Local school board initiatives for
      the implementation of curricular reform and the upgrading of
      schools must take place in the context of the School Mapping
      Project - see Chapter 7.
      The foregoing' strategy has implications for grades 10-11 and
      12-13 programmes. These are briefly discussed in Chapter 5 and
      are even more subject to student demographics than grades 7-9.
      At the same time. recommendations are made for reform of the
      Common Entrance Examination and other examinations which have
      such a deleterious effect on the schools.
      The reforms recommended require a comprehensive programme to
      prepa~e personnel for the new curriculum roles and the new
      structures of the schools. A plan for teacher education and
      staff development is presented in Chapte'r6. The plan
      discusses the pre-conditions for the success of the curriculum.
      e.g. equalization of resources. the resources needed to enable
      all students to benefit from instruction and to improve the
      quality of teaching and learning. The preparation, upgrading
      and updating of teachers and other personnel are considered
      under four approaches: pre-service teacher education.
      workshops. supervision by Territorial Education Officers. and
      school-based teacher development. A tentative costing is
      provided. I~n Chapter 7. an ,enhanced operational role for
      school boards within the context of strong central planning by
      the Minlstry of Education is described. An incremental
      strategy for implementation is presented as a guide to the work
      of school boards and the Ministers and officials of the
      Ministry in the task of introducing and implementing the
      reforms.

      4
·   i




        The Appendices offer more detailed   suggest~ons   about various
        reform activities.
        Volume II discusses the context of tecbnical/vocational
        education in the schools and in the country. Options are
        presented and the consolidation of the existing 5 subject areas
        into Technological Studies is recommended.
        The discussion of technical studies in the senior cycle of
        secondary education leads directly to the relationship between
        school technical programmes and the training offered in the
        non-formal system and in the private sector. The need for a
        national training scheme is emphasized - see Appendix C of
        Volume II - in order that the role of the schools can be
        clarified and integrated with other agencies.
        A study of employers' needs and perceptions is included as
        Appendix G.




                                                                      5

·, 



       : t

       ,.~~   .

              !
              i




              ,   1
       ~ . .,-f




              j
              !




              "
'I   I   "   f




                 Chapter 1 - Part A
                 THE PRESENT SYSTEM


                 1.   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EDUCATION SYf:TEM

                 The basic formal education system in Jamaica was established
                 under British colonial rule as a part of the post emancipation
                 package. No evidence exists of any structured initiative to
                 establish a formal system either during the time of spanish
                 rule (1494-1655) or during the period of slavery under Britain
                 (1655-1834).

                 The first serious attempt by the ~ate to make provision for
                 "popular educition" carne with the Act of the Abolition of
                 Slavery and the resultant "Negro Education Grant".

                      "providing upon liberal and comprehensive
                      principles for the moral and religious
                      education of the Negro population"
                                Gordon. 1968 p 20).

                 The initial attempt to provide elementary schooling for
                 children of the ex-slaves was fraught with problems of
                 inadequate space. unsuitable location of schools. irregular
                 attendance. poor ~uality of teachers. etc.   (See Latrobe
                 Report l ) Under Crown Colony Government. 1865-1944. the main
                 concern was with the improvement of the standard and efficiency
                 of elementary education. The 1889 Lumb Report 2 recommended
                 that greater efficiency of the system could be achieved by (1)
                 the amalgamation of the smaller and less efficient schools. (2)
                 the introduction of compulsory education. and (3) reorganizaton
                 of the curriculum.

                 Concurrent with the establishment of the elementary level of
                 education for children of the ex-slaves. a secondary level was
                 developed. through endowments and by churches. for the benefit
                 of the coloured and the whites who lacked the financial
                 resources for an education in England.


                 lLatrobe Report. see Gordon. Shirley. A Century of West
                 Indian Education. Longman. London. 1963.

                 2Lumb Report 1889. see Gordon. Shirley, A Century of West
                 Indian Education. Longman. London 1963.




                                                                             1A-1 

                                                                             '   ..

These "fee paying" schools offered a typical English grammar
school type curriculum and the intention was not only to                .'
                                                                       ,.
                                                                                 .'
provide a higher level of education for a specific segment
                                                                       ·,~. i
of the population but also to create, reinforce and perpetuate
a middle class stratum in the society.  Secondary education
remained the preserve of only those who could afford it until
1924 when "grant-in-aid" to those schools was irstit~ted.

Up until the 1940s there was no unified control of education
the elementary level and teacher educatiDn were supervised by a
Department of Education while the secondary level was
administered by the Jamaica Schools Commission.  There was no
attempt to create any articulation and mobility between the two
levels. This dual system therefore became clearly identified
with social status.

National awareness of th~ importance of education began to
emerge in 1944 with the granting of universal adult suffrage
and  representative government.

This 'water-shed' period marked the beginning of many
educational reforms which basically gave rise to the current
system of education.

The major changes that were instituted in an attempt to
integrat~ and rationalize elementary and secondary education
were:

       (1)  The establishment of a central Education Advisory
            Authority;

       (2)  Senior schools were established in 1944 to provide free
            education for 12+ children who were unable to find a
            place in the secondary high schools; .
                                                                       ,'~




       (3)  A Common Entrance Examination was instituted in 1958 to
            select students for places in "grant-in-aid" secondary
            high schools;

       (4)  Technical schools were established and technical
            subjects added to the curriculum of ·some grammar (high)
            schools.

These reforms, to a very limited extent, created opportunities
for students from the lower stratum to gain access to secondary
level schooling.

It is only in the last three decades, however, with the gaining
of independence and complete self-government, that any serious
effort has been made to expand the opportunities for secondary
level education for a greater number of individuals.



1A-2
I   "   ·   t




                 2.   STRUCTURE OF THE SECONDARY LEVEL
                The various initiatives taken by successive governments since 

                1962 to create greater opportunity for secondary education. 

                have given rise to a complex system of schools and an equally 

                diverse system of examinations for selecting and certifying 

                students. 

                  The secondary level is divided into two cycles: a three year
                  cycle of Grades 7, 8, and 9, and a two year cycle of Grades 10
                  and 11. A general type curriculum is offered during the three
                  year cycle (see section 2.1). At the end of Grade 9, 70\ of
                  students continue to grade 10. These students are channelled
                  into specialized areas with an academic and/or technical
                  emphasis, depending on the type of school. or else they leave
                  school. A range of certifying examinations is offered at the
                  end of Grade 11 (see section 3.1). These determine the
                . students' prospects for further studies.or employment.
                There are an additional two years (Grades 12 and 13) for those
                who qualify. Enrollments by school type are shown in table 1.1.
                2.1     TYPES OF SECONDARY LEVEL SCHOOLS
                Six distinct types of schools can be identified at the 

                secondary level which have different entrance requirements and 

                therefore cater to a somewhat different clientele; have 

                different curricular emphases; and offer different routes for 

                certification. Linked to this are varying chances of 

                employability and trainability of Grade 11 "graduates". Unit 

                expenditure also varies dramatically from one type to another. 

                2.1.1    TRADITIONAL HIGH SCHOOLS
                Many of these 57 schools have their or1g1n in the schools 

                established by trusts and bequests during the nineteenth 

                century. They have traditionally offered a "grammar-school" 

                type academic curriculum. Latterly, there has been the 

                introduction of vocational subjects in many of these schools 

                but the emphasis continues to be on the arts and sciences. 12 

                of the 57 are newly created from former new secondary schools. 

                High schools are the most prestigious secondary level
                institutions. They are assigned the "better" students, attract
                the best qualified teachers, and carry the highest social
                currency in terms of future prospects for their graduates.
                Competition for places at the Grade 7 level is therefore very
                high and is determined mainly by performance on the Common
                Entrance Examination (C.E.E.). A few students at the Grade 9
                level.enter through the Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT).
                (see section 3.1.1). Students who complete five years of


                                                                           1A-3 

                                                                                    · ,    _              ''lr.




                                                                                               . i
                                                                                               ·
                                                                                                     .

                                                                                                     t
                                                                                          .;:.1

                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                          . !




       Table 1.1 ENROllMENT AT SECONDARY LEVEL X SCHOOL TYPE (1988/89)                             .. ,
                                                                                                    ;



       Type       No. of    Capacity      Male      Female       Total       %
                  Schools                                                                 \.
                                                                                               'r-

                                                                                                    ....,


       Trad .H     57        55,357       29,446    37,715       67,161     26.2
       (7-13)

       Camp. H      6         7,393        4,059     4,655         8,714     3.3
       (7-11)
                                                             .
       Tech. H     11         9,076        7.347     7,757         15,104    5.8

       New Sec.    64        78,844       49,233    45,551       94,784     37.1

       All-age    493         n.a.        30,612    30,227       60,839     23.7
       {7-9)

       All-age      2         n.a.           182      195            377      0.2
       (10-11)

       AgriNoc      3          747           200       272           472      0.2

       SUBTOTAL   636       151,417       120,879   126,100      246,979    96.4

       Private     67         n.a.         2,762     6,343         9,105      3.6

       Total      703       203,279       123,641   132,443      256,084    100.0

                  Source MOE Statistics
                           .




1h-4
, I.   ·   f




               schooling sit the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC)
               examinations and the General Certificate of Education (GCE),
               ordinary level.  (see section 3.2.4). These examinations offer
               the best opportunity for (1) pursuing ~n additional two years
               in high school: (2) having access to higher paid jobs in the
               labour market; (3) gaining access to tertiary education.
               particularly university education in Jamaica and overseas.
               Most traditional high schools offer an additional two years
               which prepare students for the GCE Advanced Level Examinations.
               the main requirement for entry to the University of the West
               Indies (U.W.I.). Only about 6% of the Grade 11 students,
               however, continue through to Grade 12.
               2.1.2 COMPREHENSIVE HIGH SCHOOLS

               The six comprehensive high schools were established in the
               1960s with the intention of creating additional spaces for
               students who could benefit from the level of academic education
               offered in the traditional high schools and yet wished a
               programme of both academic and technical/vocational subjects.
               Entry to these schools is either through CEE and the GNAT or
               from designated feeder schools. At Grade 11, students sit the
               CXC, the GCE and a range of examinations offered by overseas
               examining boards for technical subjects.
               Only one comprehensive high school provides accommodation for
               students at Grades 12 and 13 level.
               Students graduating from these schools have good chances to
               move on to tertiary education and for direct employment in the
               lower level technical and vocational positions in the labour
               market.
               2.1.3   TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOLS
               Eleven technical high schools offer programmes ranging from 4-5
               years. Entrance to these schools i$ determined usually by
               success in the 13+ Common Entrance Examination (CEE) for
               technical schools. A few enter via the GNAT and through tests
               set and administered by individual sChools.
               The curriculum in these schools has a strong
               technical/vocational emphasis and prepares students for a
               continuing education at UWI, the College of Arts, Science &
               Technology, for other technical tertiary institutions or for
               technical/vocational positions in the labour market.




                                                                         1A-S 

                                                                    .. - ..     ... ~.,
                                                                                       1
                                                                            .,{

                                                                        .....
                                                                                 .:
                                                                            --'

Certification of students is by CXC or by a number of overseas 

examination boards that offer examinations in technical 
               t          i
                                                                            ·i
subjects.                                                                   ;.1
2.1.4   NEW SECONDARY SCHOOLS                                           -,
                                                                                  'r
In the 1960s under a World Bank programme. about forty schools          ·i
Wlere built to provide additional accommodations at Grades 7-9
for primary school ~eavers.   These schools along with the              ,.",
existing senior schools established in 1944 with the same                   -~ 

intention. formed the junior secondary school system.   In 1974 

the programme in these schools was extended to Grades 10 and 11         -, 

                                                                                   \

and the schools renamed "new secondary schools".                        · .-,
                                                                            .~,




These schools offer a core curriculum and technical/vocational
programme for Grades 7-9. After Grade 9 all students choose a
                                                                            ,,~. ~~

                                                                            ,      i

technical/vocational option and pursue it through Grades 10                 .. j·

&11.   The programme is intended to provide students with a 

marketable skill. 
                                                         ~-    'f



                                                                            i    _,,i
A few students at the Grade 11 level are entered for the CXC
but the majority are candidates for the Secondary School
Certificate (SSC) examinations. A few holders of these                             ;

certificates. at ranges 4 & 5 in 4+ subjects. gain entry to                        I
tertiary institutions but the majority seek employment in the
labour market.                                                          ."          ,

2.1.5   ALL-AGE SCHOOLS

The 493 all-age schools in the present system are the
all-too-numerous survivors of the elementary schools which were
established after emancipation by the churches to provide a
formal system of education for the ex-slaves. These schools
offer a primary (Grades 1-6) as well as a first cycle secondary         . .i
                                                                            ·      t

(Gradss 7-9) programme. However both sections of the school
fall under the jurisdiction of the unit responsible for primary
education in the Ministry of Education (MOE), and in most
instances the programme offered at the Grades 7-9 level is an
extended primary education programme rather than secondary.
About 40\ of all grade 7-9 students are in all-age schools.

Students at the primary level who are unsuccessful in the 11+
CEE continue through to Grades 7-9 and make a second attempt to
gain access to the traditional high or technical high schools
through the GNAT and the 13+ Technical Entrance Examination.

Some students sit the Jamaica School Certificate (JSC)
Examination (see section 3.2.1) administered by the MOE but the
majority leave school at the end of Grade 9 without any form of
certification. Prospects for higher education are therefore
very slim and the majority unsuccessfully seek employment in
the lower paid unskilled openings in the work force.


1A-6
,   ,   ,.   I




                 2.1.6    VOCATIONAL/AGRICULTURAL SCHOOLS
                 There are three schools which offer specialized education at
                 the secondary level - one of which do~s so in conjunction with
                 a technical proqramme. Two of these schools offer a second
                 cycle aqricultural course with a stronq practical emphasis in
                 Grades 10. 11 and/or 12 for 15-17 year old students. Two more
                 are due to open durinq 1989-90.
                 Entrance to these schools is on the basis of a test which is
                 set and administered by the individual schools.
                 2.2     PROVISION OF PLACES

                 Provision of school places for the 12 to 18 aqe cohort is
                 mainly throuqh the six types of secondary level public
                 institutions (see section 2.1) and to a lesser extent throuqh
                 reqistered private independent sch~ols.
                 In 1988/89. there were 256.084 students enrolled in 703
                 schools. with 46.979 (96.4%) of these in 636 public
                 institutions and the remaininq 9.105 (3.6%} in 67 private
                 institutions. (See table 1.1)
                 In all cases enrollment exceeded estimated capacity (no fiqures
                 were available for Grades 7-9 only of all-aqe schools).
                 indicatinq over-crowdinq. In spite of this. however.
                 enrollment represented only 60% of the estimated 387.963 of the
                 12-17 aqe cohort. Many schools. particularly the new
                 secondaries. operate on a shift system.
                 The larqest proportion (37.1%) of secondary level students are
                 accommodated in the new secondary schools. However. if one
                 looks at the Grade 7-9 enrollment (160.498), 40.5% of these
                 students i.e .· 65.053, are accommodated in all-aqe schools.
                 This is of particular importance sinc& for the majority ot
                 students in the all-aqe institution. Grade 9 is the terminal
                 point of their formal education.




                                                                             1A-7 

3.  THE EXAMINATION SYSTEM
                                                                      '1
3.1      SELECTION EXAMINATIONS                                           '. !
                                                                      d
              The UNESCO Report (1983) notes that 
                   _.
              "access to secondary education is universal             :\

              and it appears that there is a place in 

              Grade 7 for all who want oneil. (p.65). 


However, the concern of the study on secondary reform is with
the quality of education in all the Grade Sevens of the
different schools. There are three selection examinations that        ~    .....
are used to determine movement of students into the different
school types, viz.,

(1)  the 11+ Common Examination (CEE) taken at the Grade 5/6 

     level for placement in traditional and comprehensive high 

     schools. 


(2)  the 13+ Common Entrance taken at the Grade 7 level for 

     entrance to the technical high school&: and 


(3)  the Grade Nine Achievement Test (GNAT) taken at the Grade 9      ,      ,
                                                                            -~
     level for additional places in the traditional and
     comprehensive high schools.

3.1.1     THE 11+ COMMON ENTRANCE EXAMINATION

This examination is the first formal examination taken by
students in primary/preparatory schools between the ages of 10
years and a months, and 13 years. The majority of candidates
are therefore drawn from the Grade 6 level but because of the
eligible age range, candidates also include Grades 4 and 5
students.

It is the major device used       fo~   allocation of students into
either
                                                                      ·-1

(1)  traditional high schools or
                                                                      »      ·
                                                                      ~     .:


(2)  comprehensive high schools.

Access to these two types of schools increases a student's
chances of academic success and therefore movement into
tertiary level institutions or into the better paid jobs in the
labour force.  This examination is therefore considered to be
the major determinant of an individual's future life chances               .)
and prospects for social mobility.  See table 1.2.                    .      "




1A-S 

t   J;   ·   t




                                                       Table 1.2
                                                 COMMON ENTRANCE-EXAMINAnON (11 + )


                                                     RESULTS 1983··88

                                                                                      87/88

                 Entries                                                          47,255

                 Awards                                                           10,020

                 % Selected                                                            21.0

                 Source: Ministry of Education



                 The examination was introduced in 1958 and in the earlier years
                 two categories of awards were made - 'free place' scholarships
                 and 'grant' places. In the latter case the awardees paid a
                 part of the cost of tuition. However, in 1973 with the
                 introduction of the policy oi "free" education. the 'grant'
                 places were abolished and all awardees offered 'free places.'
                 Special government scholarships offering additional benefits
                 are awarded annually to the top performers.
                 Selection is not on the basis of merit but is determined by the
                 number of places available. Approximately 70% of those who are
                 eligiole take the CEE. The percentage of candidates selected
                 steadily increased between 1973 and 1978 from 14.5% to 24.7%.
                 Since then the percentage of students selected has ranged from·
                 a low of 19.2% in 1984 to a high of 21.5% in 1986. Between
                 1986 and 1988 the percentage has remained constant at
                 approximately 21%.  (see sangster 1 and table 1.2)
                 Data indicate that the selection process discriminates against
                 girls in the system. Twice as many girls take the examination
                 but the cut off point for selection is lower for boys than for
                 girls in order to maintain a balanced ratio of boys to virls in
                 the co-educational schools and in the system.



                 ISangster. Alfred, The Jamaica School Education System.
                 Torch. Vol. 29. 1986.


                                                                                        lA-9
                                                                  :-.
The CEE virtually dictates both what is actually taught and the
pedagogical practices in the primary school. in spite of the
fact thac curriculum guides are in place from the Ministry of
Education. Emphasis is on Mathematics and English Language in
preparation for the CEE and there is a strong tendency to
orient all teaching from the lower grades to the content and
the objective multiple choice nature of 'the examin:tion. This
is less so ~n most private preparatory schools where a more
broad based curriculum is pursued in the lower grades and
attention is diverted to the CEE in the final year.
In many primary schools. selection for the examination starts
as early as Grade 1 where the best students are grouped in a
top stream and progress through successive grades in a similar
stream. The students who make it to the highest stream are
those who are expected to have the greatest chances of
success. Those not deemed to be capable of passing the
examination are given less attention and not even be entered
although of eligible age.
This practice is less prevalent in the preparatory schools
because over the years the CEE has func~ioned in favour of the
children of the higher socio-economic status groups. i.e. those
attending these private fee-paying schools. In an attempt to
redress this situation a 70:30 ratio of places of primary to
preparatory students was instituted in the 1960s. This was
however abolished in 1972. Since 1970. the percentage periods
show that this ratio still holds approximately. Preparatory
school awards have declined from 33% to approximately 15%. See
table 1.3.
Another factor operating in the system is that the best
performers get placements in schools of their choice. so that
there is further stratification within the group of traditional
high schools. These select high schools therefore appear to
cater to students from the higher socio-economic groups because
many of the best performers are from the fee-paying preparatory
schools. The concentration of such students in these schools
in turn determines the general ambience of these schools since
parents are able to make a substantial contribution to their
children1s schools.
3.1.2   THE 13+ TECHNICAL COMMON ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
This examination was instituted in 1960 and is administered to
s~udents between the ages of 13 and 15 years.  Candidates are
drawn mainly from the all-age schools. A few candidates are
entered from private preparatory schools and there may be the
occasional case of students being entered from primary
schools. This would, however, be unusual since the age limit
of primary school students is 11+. Some candidates may also
enter from independent high schools.                              . ...



1A-10
·   J   ·   ·




                                           Table 1.3
                              PERCENTAGE OF PREPARATOR'l SCHOOL

                                           ENTRIES TO AWARDS.




                    1970                              15.4                           33.3
                    1975                              10.5                           25.7
                    1980                                6.3                          14.1
                   ·1985                                6.6                          16.8
                    .1986                               6.7                          17.3
                    1987                                6.4                          15.9
                    1988                                6.7                          17.4

                        Adapted from:  Sangster. Alfred. The School Examination System.
                                       Torch Vol. 29. 1986, and MOE Planning Unit.
                                                                                            COOIt-CI-IX)3




                The number of places offered via this route is limited since
                there were only six technical high schools in the system in
                1987/88 (increased to 11 in 1988/89). The number of entries is
                approximately one-third of that sitting the 11+ CEE but only
                about 6-7% can find places, because of the limited number of
                places available. See table 1.4.
                3.1.3   GRADE NINE ACHIEVEMENT TESTS (GNAT)
                This examination is used to select students in Grades 8 or 9 of
                the all-age schools for placement in traditional and
                comprehensive high schools. Students in the
                vocational/agricultural schools are also eligible and
                selections are made for the vocational departments of technical
                schools. Approximately 6-8% of the entrants are selected each
                year. See table 1.5.




                                                                                               1A-11 

                                                                                         ..   l   ......    "




                                                                                                  '-'.:

                                           TABLE 1.4
                                                                                                  . I
                                                                                                  ......1
                ANALYSIS OF 13+ TECHNICAL HIGKSCHOOL

          ENTRANCE EXAMINATION, ENTRIES & RESULTS. 1981-85.


  Year       Entries      No. of Pri.      No. of   %       No. of    %        %
                          & All-Age        Prep.    Prep.   Awards    Placed   Prep.

 1981        13.046       12.866           181      1.4     884       6.8      2.3

 1982        14.547       14,348           199      1.4     925       6.4      1.1

 1983        16.093       15,983           200      1.2     918       5.7      1.0
                                                                                                  '-'I
                                                                                                       ,
 1984        16,146       15.945           201      1.2     993       6.2      0.6

 1985        15,739       15.571           168      1.1     982       6.2      ?
 Source:

 Sangster. Alfred, The Jamaica SChool Examination System:

             Torch, Vol 29, 1986, p. 33.




                                                                                                  .   ..

                                           TABLE 1.5
                       GNAT EXAMINATION, ENTRY & AWARDS 84/87.

                          83/84
                                                                  ----------------~
                                                                             87/88

Entries                  10,418                                                9,953

Awards                      873                                                    700

% Selected                  8.4                                                    7.0




lA-12
, J.   ··




            The GNAT is regarded as the -final chance for gaining entrance
            to one of the prestigious secondary school types. This is
            particularly true of students in the all-age schools who 'fail'
            the 11+ and 13+ CEEs. On the other hand students who move into
            the new secondary schools are not eligible for this examination
            and therefore do not share this opportunity. Evans 1 notes
            the adverse effect that these three examinations have on the
            curriculum and on the teaching-learning process in the all-age
            schools.· The students are exposed to more or less the same
            curriculum from Grade 4 of the primary school since the three
            examinations are more or less based on the same material.

            3.2   SCHOOL-LEAVING CERTIFYING EXAMINATIONS

                    The UNESCO Report notes that
                    "one of the most characteristic features
                    of secondary education in Jamaica is the
                    wide array of examination and certification
                    possibilities it offers".  (p. 103)

            THe Report makes reference to the selection examinations (see
            Section 3.2) and then refers to the fact that

                    "the real array of examinations is to be
                    found at the end of secondary education
                    where a variety of certificate yielding
                    examinations exists to help the pupil
                    go up - into post secondary education 
                    or get out - into the world of work"
                    (p.  103).

            These certificate yielding examinations are:

            1.  The Jamaica School Certificate (J.S.C)

            2.  The Secondary School Certificate (S.S.C)

            3.  The General Certificate of Education (G.C.E.) of Cambridge
                and London (ordinary level).   .
            4.  The Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate (C.S.E.C.)
                sponsored by the Caribbean Examinations Council (C.X.C)

            S.  The Ordinary Level equivalent for technical subjects set by
                a variety of examining boards:
                (a)  the Associated Examinations Board (A.E.B.):
                (b)  the City and Guilds of London Institute (C.G.L.I.);
                (c)  the Royal Society of Arts (R.S.A.), and-the
                (d)  the Union of Lancashire and Cheshire Institutes
                (U.L.C. I).


            lEvans, Hyacinth, "Strengthening Secondary Education" A study
            of 5 parishes, GOJ/UNDP .. July 1988.

                                                                      1A-13
                                                                              ~_'




3.2.1    JAMAICA SCHOOL CERTIFICATE (J.S.C.)
This examination is administered by the MOE and provides an
intermediate type assessment designed te measure aChievement in
different subject areas. Certificates are awarded to
candidates gaining passes in five subjects including English
Language, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies and an optional
subject. The examination caters mainly to students in the
all-age and new secondary schools as well as to "private"
candidates outside of the formal system and to a lesser extent
to students from independent high schools and traditional high
schools.
At one time this was a very popular examination providing
individuals with a basic qualification for entry to the
"world-of work" and to further education. In recent years
however, the number of entries has declined dramatically (see
table 1.6). Sangster attributes this to the following:
(1)  Poor administrative performance in the Examination Section 

     of the MOE. 

(2)  Gradual replacement of this examination by the higher level
     SSC which now caters to the new secondary cohort.
(3)  Lack of employer acceptability of the examination and                   ..... ,
     therefore low "social currency" of the certificate.


ISangster. Alfred, The Jamaica School Examination System,                    ~.'
Torch, Vol. 29. 1988                                                               I.




                              TABLE 1.6
                                                                             ..... .J


                J.S.C. - ENTRIES & PASSES, 1984 - '87
  Year           Entries           Passes 1 or more      % Pass
                                   subjects

 1984            17,194                   4,789            27.9

 1985                5.287                1,192            27.8

 1986                4,104                1.516            37.8

 1987                3,515                1,528            43.4

                                                           COCIiA'-CI--ooG




lA-14
Given the current structure of the secondary system. candidates
from the all-age schools will be the most 'disa~vantaged group
if this examination is discontinued because they have little or
no recourse to any other type of scheol-Ieaving examination.
Candidates from the other school types and private candidates
however. have access to alternatives such as the S.S.C., the
C.X.C., the R.S.A or the G.C.E.; although private candidates
cannot sit the S.S.C.

3.2.2   SECONDARY SCHOOL CERTIFICATE (S.S.C.)

This examination with elements of school based assessment, work
study and a final assessment was introduced in 1976 by the MOE
and was envisaged as a local examination for new secondary
students completing the second cycle of secondary education.

Twenty-six subjects are examined at one level.   In the case of
Mathematics and English Language, however, two levels are
offered - the "Functional" level and the higher "Continuing"
level.   These examinations are based on the Grades 10 & 11
curriculum of the new secondary school and since inception.
have only served candidates from this school type.   Candidates
are graded on a five point scale with 5 indicating the highest
level of performance.

Data related to these examinations are desegregated on the
basis of entry and passes by subject area and are too
cumbersome for presentation in this report.  The figures,
however, indicate that over the years the number of subject
entries has remained more or less ~onstant between 40 and 48
thousand with 10-11% attaining range 4-5.   Holders of 'Secondary
School Certificates in the 4-5 range have access to some post
secondary educational programmes.  The certificate is
recognized for employment in the civil service and has some
validity in the private sector.

3.2.3   GENERAL CERTIFICATE OF EDUCATION

Examinations leading to the award of a G.C.E. Certificate are
offered by Examining Boards of both Cambridge and London.   The
Cambridge examinations were introduced in Jamaica from 1882 and
were therefore most closely assoclated with the traditional
high schools, although in more recent years candidates have
also been supplied from the comprehensive and technical high
schools and from private day and evening institutions.




                                                            lA-IS
                                                                    ..... 

These examinations have always been the most prestigious school
leaving examination. offering holders of certificates at both
the "Ordinary" and "Advanced" levels greatest access to
tertiary education and to better paid jOb opportunities.  In
recent years. demand fQr this examination at the Ordinary level
has declined because of the introduction of the CXC. although
it still is perceived as the preferred route for a few schools
and for some private candidates. 2

3.2.4   CARIBBEAN SECONDARY EDUCATION CERTIFICATE (C.S.E.C.)

This certificate is awarded by the Caribbean Examination            .-....
Council which is a Caribbean based institution established in       - -I
                                                                           I

1972 to certify secondary school leavers throughout the             "-.)
region. The intention of the C.X.C .. in replacing the
British-based system. is that:

(1)  The examination should be suited to the needs of the 

     Caribbean societies and relevant to the goals of 

     participating governments. 

                                                                    .,.    }


(2)  The syllabuses should aim to provide a worthwhile course of
     study for students of a wider range of ability than pass       ,
                                                                        ')
                                                                        .. ~
     the G.C.E. '0' level;                                                 ;




(3)  The pass/fail concept should be abolished. l

'In accordance with (2) above. the examinations are set at two
levels, the General and Basic proficiency levels. The former
is the equivalent of the G.C.E. '0' level while the latter is
 intended to cater to two identifiable groups: 

(a)  candidates who will not pursue further studies in the 

     subject taken at this level. and 


(b)  students who would not 'pass' the subject at the '0' level 

     and therefore would normally be advised not to sit the 

     examination. 


The Basic Proficiency syllabus for each subject is similar to
that· for the General Proficiency level but with reduced scope;
the latter focuses on fundamental principles and concepts.




ISangster. Alfred. the Jamaica School Examination System.
Torch. Vol. 29, 1986.

2See the Caribbean Examination Council. Western Zone Office
Bulletin. September 17, 1981 (p.l).



lA-16
· ·   · *




            The C.X.C. examinations were first offered in 1979 in five
            subject areas but by 1987 syllabi and examination procedures
            were in place for twenty-eight subjects covering a range of
            academic and technical areas.   Candidates for the examination
            are therefore supplied from the traditional. comprehensive and
            technical high schools who favour the General Proficiency level
            and to a lesser extent from the new secondary schools who tend
            to take the Basic level. The C.X.C. ~ertificate gives overall
            grade for each subject on a five point scale from 1 to 5 in
            descending order.  In addition a profile of the student's
            performance in each subject based on certain criteria is
            included.

            A General Proficiency level certificate   at range I & II of the
            examination has gained recognition both   for access to tertiary
            education and to the job market but the   Basic Proficiency level
            certificate seems to have little social   value.




            1 See the Caribbean Examination Council, Western Zone Office
            Bulletin, September 17, 1981 (p.l).




                                                                        lA-17
                                                                  t   ·   ·    -.~.




CURRICULUM CONCERNS

At the secondary level, each school type, and in fact, each
individual school, exercises a large degree of freedom in
determining the contents of the school's curriculum. There is
no enforcement of a common curriculum for a~l schools or for a
particular school type by the MOE. At one 'stage a curriculum
was designed for the new secondary schools but is not in
general use now and reprinting of the students' workbooks for
Grades 10 & 11 in Language and Mathematics has been only
recently carried out.
4.1     CURRICULUM OF DIFFERENT SCHOOL TYPES
This needs to be examined. in relation to the two cycles of
secondary education. During the first cycle (Grades 7, 8, and
9) some commonality exists in r~speet of the subjects offered.            ::,1,
During the second cycle (Grades 10 & 11) the curriculum                      .
organization is more differentiated among the various school              ~-   .
types and it is at this level that the ,different orientations
of the types becomes' evident. The external examination which
the school supports exerts a strong influence and becomes the
principal determinant of curriculum content.
4.1.1    CURRICULUM:   GRADES 7-9
A cursory examination of time-tables randomly selected from
each school type indicates that in terms of the subjects
offered and the time, i.e., number of periods allocated to the
various subject areas, two distinct groupings can be identified
- the traditionaL, comprehensive and technical high schools
have a similar curriculum pattern while the new secondary and
all-age schools are more similar to each other than to the
first three types. See table- 1. 7.
In the former case some twenty-three subject areas are
identifiably arranged in three groupings, viz., academic core
subjects, vocational subjects and non-core subject' areas.
During Grades 7-8 the academic core consists of subjects such
as English Languag~, Mathematics~ Social Studies, General
Science. Spanish/French and Religious Education.   The subject
areas of Language and Mathematics get the greatest allocation
of time. At the Grade 9 level there is further differentiation
of the curriculum areas and the separate components of Social
Studies i.e. History and Geography, and General Science, i.e.
Biology, Chemistry and Physics, are offered.




lA-IS
                                                                                         TABLE 1.7
                                                      CURRICULA: GRADES 7-9 X SCHOOL TYPE


                                                 TRAD. SCHOOL                         COMP. HIGH              TECH. HIGH                   NEW SEC.                    ALUAGP*

      SUBJECT                                    7      B     9            -7             B           9   7       B        9           7          B     9       7         B        9

      CQRLAREAS                                  I   NO OF PERIOnSpEaW~
                                                                        .......   ----~---   ......




      L_ENG.          LANG.~_   .. _ _ _ _       7      7     ~                   6       5           5           5     6        6/11*       -/10*      7      211.5    2115      2115
      2~ __ £~!.LL~_                             -      -     -                   3       3           3           2     4              2    f-.         -
      3.     MATHEMATICS                         7      6     EL                  5       5           5           5    5/6         5/7            7     7     3/11115 2111 2110/15
      4,_~CIALIDJlOIES                           -      -     -   ...             4       4           -           -        -       3/4            4      4       1/5   1/5   1/6
      5.     GEOGRAPHY                           2      2     3                   -       -           3           2        2           -          -     -       -         -        -
      6.     HISTORY                             2      2     a                   -       -           3           2        2           -           -    -       -         -        -
      7.     GEN. SCIENCE                        4      4     -                   5       5           -           4        -       0/4            214   3/4     U6       1/6       1/6
      B.     BIOLOGY                             -      -     3                   -       -           3           -                    -          -      -      -         -        -
      9~HEMISTRY                                 -      -     3                   -       -           3           -        6           -          -      -      -         -
      10---------PI::IYSICS                      -      -     3                   -       -                       -                 -             -      -      -         -        -
      J1_ SPANISH/FRENCH                         2      2     3                   4       4           3           5        5       0/4            0/4   214      2       1/2      -.lI2_
      12.    RELIGIOUS ED.                       2      2     2                   3       3           3           -        -        2              2     2      1/4      1/5       1/4

      .eBE::-'yQCATIONAL                                                                                                                                                      I


      J3-,_J1QMEWF & N                                  2_ _2L3. ---.A__                                  -                                 I~                 1La..
                                                                                                                                                                                   1~3
                                                 2                                        4           4           4        5    3                       3               .JI3..
      14. INDUSTRIAL ARTS                        2      2    213                  4       4           4   -       4        5   _3                 3     3       2         2                I

      15. ART & CRAFT                            2      2     2                   4       4           4   -       2        2    2
                                                                                                                               -----              2     2      J/4       114       174
      16. PRINC. OF BUSINESS                 !
                                                 -      -     3                   -       1           1   -       -        5           -           -     -       -        -        -
      17. TECH. DRAWING                          -      -     3                   -                       -       3        3           -           -                      -        -

      SECOhlDAAY SUBJECT~

      18. PHYSICAL ED~                           2      2     2                   2       2           2           1        1           2           2     2      114      114       114
      J9.    MUSIC                               -      -     2                   -       -           -                                2           2     2      1/3      113       1/3
      2~GUIDANCE-                                .L 1--' 1    1                   1       1           1                                -           -     -       -        -         -
      fl.    FAMILY LIFE                         -      -     -                   -       -           -                                1           1     1      1/2      1/2       l/L
      22.    CULTURAL ACTIVITY                                                                        -                                -           2     1       -        -        -

                                                                                                                                                                          000ll·C/-007



t-'
»I
1
t-'
'"
                                                                  .. 


                                                                          _. 

Similar vocational & technical subjects are offered throughout
the first cycle in the traditional and comprehensive high                q
schools with Home Economics being made ayailable for the girls           J
and Industrial Arts for the boys. All students pursue a
programme of Art & Craft.                                                .....
                                                                             (
                                                                         ..      ,
In the technicil h_gh school there is no Grade 7 programme
except in 6 scnools. Grade 8 students are exposed to similar
technical subjects' as those in the traditional and
comprehensive high schools. In Grade 9. however. partial                 :. i
specialization starts and students select one of five technical
options - Home Economics. Commerce. Building Engineering.
Electrical Engineering and Electronics.
The curriculum for Grades 7-9 in these three school types
includes non-core subjects such as Physical Education. and
Music and '~uidance Services.'
In the other two school types. i.e. the new secondary and the
all-age. similar groupings of subjects are offered. In the
case of the 'academic core', however. there is no                        .',1
                                                                               .

differentiation at the Grade 9 level, and Social Studies and
General Science are offered right up to the Grade 9 level. As
before the greatest allocation of time is to English Language            'oj

and Mathematics. There is little opportunity for tech/voc
subjects to be offered in the all-age schools, which have no
equipment, facilities or teachers with rare exception.
In the new secondary school a remedial stream is given
additional periods of English Language and Mathematics at both
the Grade 7 and 8 levels, at the expense of subjects like
Social Studies, General Science and Spanish which either get
reduced time or are omitted altogether.
In many of the all-age schools there is an even greater
emphasis on English Language and Mathematics with as many as
fifteen periods being offered to each of these areas in some
instances. What obtains in these schools is that there is an
extension of a primary type programme and teaching approach in"
an attempt to further prepare students for the two additional
selection examinations taken at the Grades 7-9 levels in these
schools. None or very little tech/voc is offered.
The above description does not take into account the actual
content of the curriculum offered in each school type.                   ':..... j



Collection of data related to this factor would have required
extensive field work. Indications are. however, especially in
the absence of any enforced curriculum guidelines from the
Ministry. that each school largely determines the content and
emphases of its Grade 7-9 curriculum. The textbook rental
scheme may standardize curriculum content, but it has not yet
                                                                         '~-    .:
been introduced into the All Age schools.

lA-2C
4.1.2   CURRICULUM:   GRADES 10 and 11
The organization of the curriculum is more differentiated at
this level and it is here that the orientations of the
different institutions are most evident.
(1) All-age schools - there is no second cycle offered in these
    schools. with 2 exceptions out of the 493 schools.
(2) New secondary schools: The intention during the second
    cycle (Grades 10 and 11) is that students select vocational
    options and pursue programmes that provide them with
    marketable skills. The curriculum therefore has a strong
    technical/vocational emphasis - 40\ of the curriculum time
    is reserved for the study of Agriculture. Art and crafts.
    Business Education. Home Economics or Industrial Education.
(3)  Technical high schools: The Grade 10 and 11 curriculum is
     oriented towards technical/vocational training of a more
     rigorous nature than that offered in the new secondary
     schools. The specialization started in Grade 9 continues
     through 10 and 11 and students are groomed for examinations
     offered by the C.X.C. and overseas examining boards whereas
     in the former case much less content is covered as students
     are prepared to satisfy the demands of a local Ministry
     based examination (S.S.C.). In addition the curriculum
     includes a technical programme of Home Economics. Business
    Education. Electrical Installation. Auto-Mechanics.
    Welding/Fabrication and in some cases Agriculture.
(4) Comprehensive high schools offer a mixed curriculum of
    academic and technical/vocational subjects but with less of
    an academic emphasis than the traditional high schools.
(5)  Traditional high schools offer mainly academic subjects at
     the Grade 10 and 11 level with a more limited array of
     vocational offerings such as Commerce. Home Economics.
     Technical Drawing etc. Although the curriculum appears to
     be organized along comprehensivs principles in these
     schools. in reality there is a greater demand for academic
     subjects since the majority of students choose these
     options. The practical areas are regarded as having lower
     status and are often associated with lower achievers.
(6) Many traditional high sc~ools also offer a programme at
    Grades 12 and 13 where students do a number of subjects in
    preparation for university matriculation at the advanced
    level. These programmes are characterized by very small
    classes.




                                                           1A-21 

                                                                   .. 




The foregoing indicate that each school type offers a programme
with a particular emphasis. As was noted. in the absence of               ......1
enforcement by the MOE. actual content of the curriculum.
particularly during the first cycle, is often determined by the           U
individual schools and even by individual teachers. The
factors which are the real determinants of what is offered by
~ay of curriculum content. in the different school types and in
any particular school. are:
(1)   teacher supply and quality
(2)   quality of students' previous achievements
(3)   availability of adequate facilities and equipment
(4)   the syllabus for the external examination at Grades 11 and          ,.
      13.




                                                                          , ,
                                                                           .,
                                                                             .
                                                                           .~.




lA-22
·   'Ii   ··




               TEACHER SUPPLY AND QUALITY 


               The concern about teachers at the secondary level is both
               quantitative and qualitative.

               S.l     TEACHER-STUDENT RATIO
               Data related to teacher supply in comparison to student
               enrollment in the different school types are presented in table
               1. 8.

               The figures indicate that it is the all-age schools which are
               at yet another disadvantage with a much higher teacher-student
               ratio (1:40) than any of the other school types which have an
               approximate ratio of 1:20.

               S.2     TEACHER QUALIFICATION

               Traditionally. the majority of teachers in the high schools
               were university graduates with a fewer number coming from the
               teacher colleges. with the reverse being the case in the other
               school types (see table 1.9). This pattern has been changing.
               however. and the percentage of university graduates in the
               traditional high schools has been declining. paralleled by an
               increase in the number of college trained teachers.   In fact
               between 1980/81 and 1987/88 a similar trend has been observed
               in all the school types with an exception of the all-age where
               the situation is reversed. This decline is most marked in the
               traditional high school where there has been a 10% decline in
               the number of graduate teachers.  This is not unexpected since
               increasingly university graduates in the system regard teaching
               as a 'stepping-stone' to the more lucrative openings in the
               private sector and therefore use teaching as a means of upward
               social mobility. This is reinforced by the fact that 13.~% of
               the university graduates teaching in the high schools do not
               have any professional training because they do not intend to
               stay in the system.  There is therefore a high annual attrition
               rate with the result that many of the teachers are young and
               inexperienced.

               Over this same period (1981-88) the percentage of teachers'
               college graduates in the system has increased in all the school
               types. The number in the traditional. comprehensive and,
               technical schools has increased considerably so that there are
               now far more teachers' college graduates than university
               graduates in these schools.   The number of teachers' college
               graduates had always been considerably higher in the new
               secondary and all-age schools but in both these instances there
               has been further increases between '80/81 and '87/88.



                                                                           lA-23
                                             TABLE 1.8 


             TEACHER - STUDENT RATIO X SCHOOL TYPE - '87/88 



   School Type                 Enrollment                No. of Teachers             Ratio
                                                                                                  ."":l
   Trad. High                       54,558                   2,835                     1:19              ,
                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                  '   .. .
   Compo High                        9.749                     480                     1:20
                                                                                                      ·,
                                                                                                          ,
                                                                                                          ,
   TeChnical High                    B.346                     467                     1:18       ·



   New Secondary                    94,784                   4,491                     1:21

   All-age (1-9)                   225.630                   5,536                     1:41
                                                                                   COoIr-CI-ooB
   Source: Ministry of Education. Statistics




                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                          .
                                                                                                  ..... i



                                              TABLE 1.9

                   PERCENTAGE OF TEACHERS BY QUALIFICATION
                        IN EACH SCHOOL TYPE (Full Time)


                      Total         Trained       PT        Sub.       Trained         PT
    Type               No.           Grad.       Grad.      Total      Teacher       Teacher

        High 87/88    2.835          27.2         13.5       40.7          56.4         2.9
             80/81    2.395          n.a.         n.a.       51.4          28.4         6.3

    Comp 87/88          480          1B.3          2.3       20.6          70.0        9.4
         80/81          329          n.a.         n.a.       26.1          48.4       10.6

     Tech 87/88         467          15.2          6.2       21.4          70.4        8.1
          80/81         400          n.a.         n.a.       26.4          25.3       13.5
                                                                                                  · 'J
                                                                                                      ,   .
        N.S.87/88     4,491    I       7.8         0,4        B.2          88 .0        3.7
            80/81     4,453           n.a.        n.a.       14.6           60.6        7.8
                               i
     A.A. 87/88       5,536            2.1       0.04         2.1          94.2         3.7
          80/81       6,470           n.a.       n.a.         0.1          69.5       29.9

    Source: Ministry of Education. Statistics




lA-24
·.


     In the all-age schools, however, the majority of teachers
     deployed to the secondary department are trained for the
     primary level so that they lack the content and methodology
     appropriate for the secondary level. _This is particularly true
     of subject areas like Mathematics and Science.
     The number of pre-trained teachers in the system has declined
     in all the s~hool types. The d~cliLe has been most marked in
     the all-age schools. This is due partly to the In-Service
     Teacher Education Thrust (ISTET) which was mounted to qualify
     all untrained teachers in the system and partly to government
     policy introduced in the early '80s, ~o stop hiring pre-trained
     teachers.
     These data further reinforce the distinction between the
     different school types. The traditional high schools which are
     regarded as the most prestigious i~ the system, still attract
     the highest pe~centage of university graduates and the lowest
     percentage of trained teachers. This also obtains, but to a
     lesser extent, for the comprehensive and technical high schools
     while the reverse is true of the new secondary and all-age
     schools at the other end of the continuum.
     5.3    CLASSROOM ORGANIZATION FOR TEACHING
     With respect to classroom organization the main difference is
     in the all-age schools where,' even at the secondary level, the
     majority of schools are organized for grade level teaching with
     a single teacher managing all the areas of the curriculum.
     As was noted earlier, the emphasis is· on rote learning by drill
     and practice with little attempt at individualization although
     there is a wide ability range of students in a given class.
     Teachrng is therefore characterized by 'chalk and talk' by the
     teacher, and seat-work activities -by the students.
     The other school types are organized for subject teaching and
     teachers are 'subject specialists.' The teaching style.
     however, is generally didactic with teachers dispensing 

     information and students taking notes. 

     6.    STUDENT CHARACTERISTICS
     6.1   AB~LITY   LEVELS
     The quality of the student entering the secondary cycle of
     education is to a large extent determined by the quality of the
     educational programme at the primary level. The primary
     programme has not succeeded sufficiently in providing graduates
     with the necessary minimal education attainment to allow them



                                                                lA-25
to benefit from secondary level education. As a result there
is an extensive need for remediation at the secondary level.
In the past this was most marked in the new secondary and
all-age schools but recently this phenomenon is evident in all
the school types.
Unsuccessful candidates in the 11+ CEE enter ne~ secondary        ,-  ,   "
                                                                               .

schools from designated feeder schools. Tt.e new secondary
school accepts all 12 year old students ~egardless of their       .-'
level of attainment in the primary school. As a consequence,      'i
                                                                  ·           ,
                                                                  :.J
30 to 50\ of the Grade 7 students require remediation to
effectively attain a Grade 7 level of literacy and numeracy.
A similar situation exists in the all-age schools where
students who are unsuccessful in the 11+ CEE move into the
secondary department displaying deficiencies in Language and
Mathematics skills. In t~ese schools the problem is further
exacerbated by the higher teacher-student ratio, the
unavailability of instructional materials and the lack of staff
capable of managing the situation. The problem, for the most
part. is therefore not addressed by the teachers.
In spite of the selection process which allocates the 'best'
students to the traditional. comprehensive and technical high     ·       .j
                                                                              ~.
schools. a similar phenomenon. albeit to a lesser extent. is
evident. ·Remediation. to differing degrees. is therefore a
necessity in all school types. Coping strategies are organized
on an 'ad hoc' basis from scbool to school. Secondary teachers
do not feel that they have either the facilities nor training
to effectively deal with the situation.
Streaming and grouping are the most common strategies applied.
They are organizep by each school according to its own criteria
and perceived needs. Many schools separate students into a        ·
remedial stream where additional periods are offered in           · -,    ,




Language (particularly Reading) with the intention of
integrating them into the main-st~eam by the end of Grade 7.
6.2   OTHER STUDENT QUALITIES
Students in the new secondary and all-age schools are
predominately from the lower socio-economic strata of the
society. Many of them have low self-esteem because of the
experience of 'faiiure' in the system. Disciplinary problems.     · -:

absenteeism and lateness are prevalent and there is a critical
need for guidance and counselling both in terms of personal
development as well as post-school opportunities for further
education and employment.




1A-26 

The attrition rate of students in the all-age schools is very
marked as students progress from Grade 7 through 9 (see table
1.10). Data for 1987/88 indicate that between Grade 7 and 8,
and 8 and 9, there is an 11% and 17% attrition level
respectively.   Some of those who leave transfer to the new
secondary school. For others it means 'dropping-out' after
failure at their second attempt to gain entry to the more
presti.gious technical high schools through the 13+ CEE. There
is no incentive for students to complete Grade 9 since there is
no certification and little is being done in terms of
vocational training in these schools.   Students most likely
seek admission to new secondary schools where opportunity for
vocational training exists. This hypothesis is confirmed by
the 10% increase in number between Grade 8 and 9 in these
schools.

 In the traditional high schools there is a moderate increase in
'number between Grade 7 and 9. At the Grade 9 level this is
 most likely due to the intake of students who were successful
 at the GNAT.




                                        TABL.E 1.10 


                          EN ROL.L.MENT SHIFTS GRADE 7-9 



   School Type                                          Enrollment
                                     Grade 7                8           9
                                     1985/86             1986J87     1987/88

   All-age                           25.760               22.950     18,301
                                                           -11%       -20%

   New secondary                     16,880               18,381     19,310
                                                           +.9%       +5%

   Traditional high                  10,040               11,076     10,767
                                                          +10%       +3.4%

   Note: Some transfers from one type of school enter another.

   Source: Ministry of Education, Statistics



                                                                        lA-27
7.    FACILITY AND RESOURCES 

                                                                   ,....,
                                                                   · 1
7.1    PHYSICAL FACILITIES                                         .~-)

The new secondary schools were established in the 1960s. They
now need major renovation but are in relatively qood condition
compared to the ~ll-aqe schools, many of which date back to the
mid and lat~ 1800s. The buildinqs in which all-aqe schools are
housed are therefore usually old and dilapidated with open
                                                                       · "
classrooms separated only by chalkboards. Rooms for aqe qroups
or specialized subjects are therefore lackinq.  In many
instances there is no special room to accommodate staff and the
principal's office tends to be a qeneral area where a variety
of tasks and functions are carried out.

All the other school types have specialized rooms for different
curriculum areas, staff rooms and an area to house the
administrative staff.

Althouqh all schools suffer from shortaqe of furniture for
students and teachers, this is the most marked in the all-aqe
schools where in many instances, students are accommodated on
seatinq suitable for the primary level, i~e. low benches and
desks for seatinq qroups of three.  In other cases each student
occupies a sinqle desk and chair which are usually in short
supply.

Of all the school types, the traditional hiqh schools have the
qreatest capacity to maintain and replace furniture and
equipment with funds solicited throuqh the P.T.A. or throuqh
special fund-raisinq events, as well as throuqh fees charqed.

7.2   INSTRUCTIONAL RESOURCES

The UNESCO Report of 1983 notes that the 'lack of instructional
materials and aids is aRother serious problem havinq neqative
effects on the quality of what is belnq learnt' (p. 9).   In the   ·    ,
past the traditional, comprehensive and technical hiqh schools     i.. ;
were the least affected because of the capability of many
parents to pay for textbooks or to obtain books throuqh rental     (    "
schemes operated by many schools.

Over the past three ye~rs the G.O.J./U.K. Secondary School
Textbook Project has provided ~asic textbooks in core subjects
on a rental basis to Grade 7-11 students in 143 public
secondary level schools. Unfortunately this scheme did not
                                                                   ,   -,
include the all-aqe schools which have the qreatest need for             ,
such assistance.




1A-28 

Additionaliy. there are no laboratories or equipment in the
all-age schools to facilitate the teaching of science. When
the new secondary schools were established laboratory
facilities and equipment were provide~ but as the UNESCO Report
observes 'some of the equipment was too elaborate and unsuited
for the curriculum and too complex for the average science
teacher to handle' (p. 9).

Due to the lack of funds for maintenance many of these
laboratories and pieces of equipment are not non-functional.
In most high schools, science laboratories are inadequate in
size and the installations (gas. electricity, water. etc.) are
below standard and at times unsafe (UNESCO Report p. 90).

A similar situation is observed in the case of facilities and
equipment for practical vocational subjects. The high and
comprehensive schools could benefitted from improvement.   The
technical high schools have benefited considerably from the
USAID Basic Skills Training Project. New secondary schools are
generally in a better position and. as is always the case,
facilities are non-existent in most all-age schools.

In all cases consumable materials for both the teaching of
science and practical subjects are insufficient.

8.    FINANCING OF SECONDARY EDUCATION

8.1    BUDGETARY ALLOCATION FOR EDUCATION

The figures presented in table 1.11 represent both recurrent
and capital expenditure and indicate that although there has
been a steady increase each year (1983-89) in the actual amount
spent on education, these increases do not represent a bigger
portion of the national budget because since 1985 the amounts
represent a smaller percentage (%) of total government
expenditure than previously, and they represent approximately
the same percentage of the Gross Domestic Product.

8.2   DISTRIBUTION OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION

The figures in table 1.12 indicate that two-thirds of the
budget for education was allocated for both the primary and
secondary levels in 1987/88.  In 1988/89, however, there has
been a 1% decline in spending at the secondary level with-a
corresponding 3% increase at the primary level. This is in
keeping with government policy to improve conditions at the
primary level.




                                                             1A-29 

                                                                                                         -..,
                                                                                                            1,'


                                                                                                         _ J




                                            TABLE 1.11

         ACTUAL EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION, ,M BY THE MINISTRY
                                                                                                         ,.-~




Financial                 Total Expenditure                   As Ok of Total 
             As%of
Year                      on Education                        Expenditure 
                G.D.P.
1983-4                           432.4                            13.4                        6.2

1984-5                           477.5                            13.2                        5.1

1985-6                           507.6                            10.9                        4.5

1986-7                           613.0                            10.8                        4.6             C,
                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                         :.. ...;
1987-8                           733.6                            12.2                        4.7

1988-9                         1024.3                             11.2                        5.7
                                                                                           COOk-cH:J11
Revised estimates: Ministry of Education
                                                                                                         ~"   ., ~


                                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                          · ~, I
                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                          '.J




                                            TABLE 1.12 


            DISTRIBUTION OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURE -1987-89 



             Sector                        Percentage of Total Recurrent Expenditure
                                                  1987/88             1988/89

              Infant. Primary, All-age               36.0                 35.7                                ",
                                                                                                          "' t'
                                                                                                           , .~
             Secondary                               34.4                 33.7

             Tertiary                                21.8                 22.3

             Continuing (JAMAL)                       0.5                  0.5

             Central Administration                   4.0                  4.6

             Other                                    3.3                  3.2

             TOTAL                                  100.0                100.0

                                                                             COOk-<:HJ12
             Source: Ministry of Education. Planning Unit




lA-30
8.3  DISTRIBUTION OF RECURRENT EXPENDITURES AT THE SECONDARY
     LEVEL
The way funds are distributed at the secondary level among the
different school types for recurrent expenses is totally in
keeping wieh the perception held of these schools.  In fact it
is this very practice which has given rise to and fostered and
reinforced the inequalities in the system.

The figures in table 1.13 show that the all-age school receives
the lowest per capita grant and that 89% of the amount goes to
teachers' salary.

No expenditure is recorded under 'other personnel' because
these schools do not, as a rule employ either support ancillary
or secretarial staff.  In most instances these duties have to
be carried out by both staff and students. This practice
erodes the amount of time devoted to teaching and further
reduces the quality of learning.

The estimated amount spent on books and materials is J$8.00 per
student. The effect of this on the quality of the learning
environment is self-evident.



                                       TABLE 1.13

  PER PUPIL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE FOR SECONDARY SCHOOL TYPES


  expenditure           SChool Type                 I
  Category              All-age          New Sec.       Trad. High   Camp.           Tech

  Teachers              JS 495              936           1,009       904            1,234
                                                                                 -
  Other Personnel             -             160             279       177             512

  Non-Personnel              63             106             381       206             565

  Books & Materials           8             21'              51        22             105

  TOTAL                     566           1,223           1.720      1,309           2,416



             Source: Unit cost study, Ministry of Education. Jamaica;
                     Education Programmer Preparation and Student Loan Project
                     (World Bank IV). GE Government Services. January. 1990.
                     Data are from 1988/89.



                                                                                 :'A-31
The expenditure in the other school types is at least"double 

the amount of that in the all-age schools and in all cases' 

between 13\ and 20\ is spent on support staff. The amounts          '_. J
                                                                                  .

spent on books and materials is woefully-inadequate in all
cases but is highest in the technical high schools where
presumably because of the curriculum emphasis. there is greater
need for materials than in the other school types.
9.   SUMMARY

A summary of the indicators as they relate to each school type
and as discussed in Sections 1 to 8. is presented in Table 1.14.
                                                                   ",-oj


                                                                    .--,
                                                                              ;




                                                                    .       \~




                                                                            :. ~
                                                                        .     ,
                                                                              i
                                                                    ,         ,

                                                                   ..        ,




                                                                            .,
                                                                        ,     "




1A-32 

                                                 TABLE 1.14 


                         SUMMARY OF MAJOR INDtCATORS AT 


                  SEC,ONDARY LEVEL BY SCHOOL TYPE 1988/89. 



 INDICATOR           TRAD. HIGH         TECH. HIGH       COMP. HIGH         NEW SEC         ALL-AGE
 No. of
 Publiclnst.              57                11                 6                64                493

.Grades . - - - . - - -. . -  --- - . - -8--11 --- - --- -7-11 -- - - . -- -- ----- -- ------ . --
  ---.                  7-13
                                            -.            - --              7-11            1-9
 Age Range           '12 -
 - --- - - - -. - - ----18 -- --- -13 - - --- - - -- -12 -16. --- - ----- -. --- - -- - ---- - -- 
 Entry              95%CEE
                           -   ~        -
                                          - 17
                                          CEE
                                                          ~--
                                                           CEE
                                                                          12 -16
                                                                    Free flow from
                                                                                         6 - 14
                                                                                            Free flow
 Requirement          GNAT                                GNAT     feeder schools       from Primary
  ----- -                                          -- -                          -- -
-Enrollment -- -- - ---- --- --- -- 3917 -- - -. --5674 - . --- ------- --- -- -65053- - - - 
                    31329
                                    - - --                        54335
 7-9                      19.5%              2.4%              3.5%             33.9%              40.5%
                                                                              -- -
  ---- - --- - ----- -- -- - - --- - - -- - --- . - --4046 - -- - - --40451-- -. - - -- ---- - - -
   Enrollment             20138             4426
                                                             . --                                 382
   10-12                   29%                 6.4%              5.8%              58.3%            0.6%
  - - - - - - - - -- - - - --- - - - -- - ---- - ---- - . -- - - - - -- - -- - - - - - . . -- ------ - - - - 
   No. of Teachers         2835              467              480               4491             5536
,
  -Teacher/Pupil- ---- -1:19-- - - - -- - -1:18 - - - - --- --- -- ----- - - 1:21 -- - - --- -1:40 . --
    -- - ----               --               --              1:20
                                                                                 ---              ---
 ratio
 Teach. qual.      2369:466             400:67           424:56          4304:187           5329:207
 T/PreT                 5:1                6:1                7.6:1          23:1                 26:1
                       subj. spec.        subj. spec.      subj. spec.       subj. spec.        single
                                                                                           cl teacher
 Curriculum       Similar pattern across these                           Similar pattern across these
 7-9             types. i.e. subj. offered &                            types.
                 time allocated. Mix academic                         Academic core: same as before
                 & teCh. Academic core:                               however remedial classes in
                   7 - 8: Lang., Maths., SSt                          add. reading. No differentiation
                   Gen. SC. t Sp./Fr., ReI.                           of SS and Sc. in 9
                   Ed., 9: Geog!Hist., Chern!                         Tech. areas: As for gr. 7-in High
                   Bio/Phys. replace SS &                             and Camp.
                   GS Tech. core: Trad &
                   Camp 7 - 9: Gen. Studies
                   in Ind. Arts, Home Ec. Art
                   & Craft.
                'Tech. core: TeCh. High
                 Gen. Studies in 8
                 Gr 9: special. in 5 areas.




                                                                                                                lA-33
                                                                                                                                ·   ,




                                       TABLE 1.14 (Cont'd)

                       SUMMARY OF MAJOR INDICATORS AT

                 SECONDARY LEVEL BY SCHOOL TYPE 1988/89.


 INDICATOR         TRAD. HIGH           TECH. HIGH        COMP. HIGH          NEW SEC           ALL-AGE


 Facilities              Indiv. class rooms;             Indiv. class       Indiv. class      Mostly open
                         spec. areas. indo               rooms; spec.       rooms; spec.      classroom; and        , '1
                         seating adequate                areas. ind./gp.    areas. ind./gp.   group seating.
                         furniture fairly well .         seating some       seating once      Few with sp.
                         equipped.                       equipment          well equipped     rooms. Poorly
                                                         Shortage of        shortage of       equip. acute 

                                                         furniture.         furn.             shtg. of furniture.           ,

                                                                                                                    " J



Recur. Exp./          1669                2331              1287                1202                 558 

Student 

Books &                 51                  105               22                  21                      8

Mats                   3%                   5%               2%                  2%                       1.4% 

- - - - - -. -. -- - - - - - - - - - ---- - - - --- - - - - - - - . - ------------- - - - - - - - - - - -
Exams              CXC.GCE              CXC.GCE           CXC.GCE             Few CXC           JSC 

                   RSA etc.             RSA etc.          RSA etc.            most SSC 

Prospects for      Tertiary             Tertiary          Tertiary           Tertiary         Mainly
Grads              ed for               Tech & Voc        Tech & voc         in few cases     lower pd. jobs
                   most Better          jobs in lab.      jObs in lab.       Mostly lab. mkt. in lab. mkt.
                                                                                                                        "   .
                   pd. jobs in          market            market
                   labour mkt.'
SOCial 

Prestige           High - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ·· - ······· -Low 

of sch,                                               Continuum 





                                                                                                                        , J
                                                                                                                            ;




                                                                                                                    .....
                                                                                                                    '
·. 



       Chapter 1- Part B
       THE CONTEXT OF REFORM

       A.
     Educational reform does not take place in a vacuum, nor is it
     affected only by conditions within the educational system.
     Prevailing economic and demographic conditions and trends are
     important determinants of the success or failure of innovations
     in educational policy and practice. Changes in the
     government's financial circumstances are also important
     influences on the array of constraints and opportunities that
     face prospective reformers. In this section, some of the most
   . salient features of the context of secondary school reform in
     Jamaica are examined, including rates of growth in the
     population and in the national economy, and trends in the
     structure of employment. Some data is also presented on recent
     changes in aggregate budgetary allocations for education and on
     the distribution of educational revenues within the system, as
     well as some estimates of the revenues that may become
     available for education in the coming decade.
       I.   RATES OF GROWTH IN POPULATION AND GOP
       Table 1-15 provides data on the growth of Jamaica's population
       and economy between 1980 and 1988. Rates of population growth
       have remained relatively low, and have tended to decline in
       recent years, mainly because of large flows of international
       out-migration. The total population of the island nevertheless
       increased by approximately 10 percent in this period.
       In the same period Gross Domestic Product (GOP) increased by an
       aggregate 8.2 percent, which implies a real decline in per
       capita incomes through the decade. Since the downturn in 1984,
       however, the economy has recovered, and per capita incomes have
       increased significantly. Despite the damage caused by
       Hurricane Gilbert, growth is projected to continue in 1989.
       The rate of inflation has fluctuated markedly in the past
       decade, de~lining sharply between 1980 and 1981 and rising
       equally sharply between 1982 and 1984. Since 1984 the
       inflation rate has declined 'once again, to slightly more than 8
       percent in 1987 and 1988, but it is projected to rise to
       approximately 12 percent in 1989.




                                                                 1B-l
                                                                                                                     .,


                                                                                                                          .-..

                                                       TABLE 1.15                                                         .-,
                 ECONOMIC       ~ND        DEMOGRAPHIC GROWTH IN JAMAICA, 1980-1988                                       :    .,
                                                                                                                               .!




                                                                                                                          I~'
        Year                                  1981     1982              1984        1985                                 .. ~
                                    1980                        1983


        Population ('000)           2143      2185     2219     2263     2297        2326   2346    2355                  ~'1
                                                                                                                               .,,
        Rate Of Growth               0.9                 1.7      2.0      1.5        1.3     0.9    0.4

                                                                                                                          .     ~;.

        GOP In J$M                  1829      1875     1893     1931     1924        1835   1870    1967
        (constant prices)
                                                                                                                          .'     ;

                                                                                                                          hi

        Rate of growth               2.5        , .0     2.0     -0.4    -4.6         1.9     5.2    0.6    n.a.
                                                                                                                          1'" .~




        Employment ('000)           n.a.     716.6     710.8   745.2    779.5    781.0      820.61 855.0

        Rate of growth1              0.9        , .8     1.7      2.0      1.5        1.3     0.9

                                I
        Unemployment Rate21 26.8              25.6      27.9    26.7                 25.6   22.3
                                I


        Inflation Rate              29.0       4.6       6.5     16.7                        10.4




                                            Source: Planning Institute of Jamaica.
                                            Economic aod Social Survey' Jamaica
                                                   (Kingston: author, annual.)



        Notes:

        ,. In 1987 there were fewer childen in the 0-9 cohort than in the 10-19 cohort, which is indicative of the
           declining fertility and --for the schools--declining enrollments.
        2. The unemployment rate is·tar higher among young people under the age of 25 than among older
           people, and higher among women than among men.




213-2
·. 


       II.    TRENDS IN THE STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYMENT AND OUTPUT
       In Table 1-16 data is provided on the changing structure of
       employment in Jamaica between 1980 and 1988. The number of
       people employed has increased steadily since 1982, rising by an
       aggregate 22.7 percent. The rate of unemployment has declined
       correspondingly, though it still remains high at almost 19
       percent of the labor force.                       .
       Within sectors. the share of the labor force employed in
       agriculture has declined steadily in the 1980's, falling below
       30 percent in 1988. while the share employed in services has
       remained fairly steady at between 47 and 48 percent. The
       percentages employed in manufacturing and construction have
       meanwhile increased significantly, rising from 10.6 to 15.0
       percent and from 3.5 to 5.6 percent respectively. The
       percentage of the labor force that is self-employed has also
       declined since 1980. and more particularly since the economic
       recovery began in 1985.
       The share of GDP produced in agriculture has tended to decline
       slowly through the decade. to less than 8 percent in 1988. The
       share produced in services has meanwhile tended to rise. to
       approximately 70 percent at the end of the period.
       III.    IMPLICATIONS FOR EDUCATIONAL POLICY
   It makes no sense to prepare people for jobs that do not exist.
   or for jobs in declining industries. and we are therefore
   skeptical about the wisdom of attempts to make the curriculum
   in Grades 1-9 more "relevant" by incorporating specifically
   vocational content. This is particularly so with respect to
   training in agriculture. and with efforts to meet the training
   needs of the tourism industry.
   To refer to Jamaica as an "agricultural country" is
   increasingly anachronistic. either in terms 'of employment or of
   aggregate output, as the data in Table 1:16 show. To propose
   that the curriculum in Grades 1-9 adopt an increased
   agricultural orientation is to defi both the course of the
   economy and the preferences of households, who send their
   children to school not to make them better farmers but to equip
   them to find work outside of agriculture. Improvements in the
   quality of instruction in basic subjects are likely to be-far
   more useful. and far less costly. in this regard than
   specialized training in agriculture. which is in any case more
   effectively provided on the farm than in the classroom.




                                                                 1B-3 

                                                                                   !       ,"
                                                                                   ~   >    ,


                                                                                   ..;'
                                                                                   r
                                                                                   ~j



                                                                                   ~
                                                                                   :.J
                                                                                   ,j

                                   TABLE 1.16                                      ;"""".'l
                                                                                   ~.      -t
                                                                                   :~.j
          SECTORAL CHANGE IN THE JAMAICAN ECONOMY, 1980-88
                                                                                   ~-~1

                                                                                   ~ ~
Year             1980            82     83      84     85,    86     87     88     t.....
                                                                                   .. 
                                                                                   ' ~


% Employed In                                                                      r--~.

Agnc.             36.8           34.4   34.3    32.7   35.7   32.6   31.5   29.9   1(. v

                                                                                   -' ~
                                                                                   --'';

% GOP from
Agnc.              8.31    8.3    7.6    8.0     8.8    8.9    8.6    8.4    7.9   '.
% Employment
In Services       47.2    47.6   48.0   48.1    49.0   45.9   47.9   47.0   47.9
                                                                                   ~1


% GOP from
from Services     62.4    66.8   68.2           67.3   68.0   69.6   69.5   69.8
                                                                                   ,        >
                                                                                            1
% Employed In
Manu.                            11.3           12.8   12.9   14.1   16.2   15.0

% Employed In                                                                      "       \
Const.             3.6            4.5    4.7     4.4    4.5    4.3    4.5    5.6

% SeH-employed    44.0    41.1   41.2   n.a.    n.a.          42.2   41.3   40.3




   Soqrce: Planning Institute of Jamaica Economic and Social Survey, 1988




                                                                                   .
                                                                                   ·.: . f
·. 


   Tourism is an increasingly important industry in Jamaica. both
   in terms of its contribution to GDP and ift terms of the numbers
   of people that it employs. The most valuable preparation for
   workers in this sector will likely prove to be solid mastery of
   basic literacy and numeracy skills. al~ng with facility in the
   use of standard English. More specialized skills are best
   acquired out of school. in specialized training institutions.
   or on the job. This is equally true of other ser~'ice
   industries. including finance. commerce. and }overnment. In
   our view it would be a mistake for the Ministry of Education to
   orient the formal curriculum to the provision of specialized
   training for tourism or other service industries. despite their
   importance in the Jamaican economy. On the one hand. the
   provision of specialized training of this kind requires the
   diversion of resources from the basic curriculum. where they
   are desperately needed. On the other hand. it is almost
   certain that whatever needs for specialized training exist in
   the tourism industry or in other service industries~ they will
   be met by non-formal training programs. by specialized private
   educational institutions. or by employers themselves. There is
   no good reason for the formal education system to get directly
   involved in these activities.
   IV.   THE FISCAL CONTEXT OF EDUCATIONAL REFORM
   There are significant obstacles to any comprehensive reform of
   secondary education in Jamaica. Some of these are political:
   constituencies who benefit from the present system. or who have
   accommodated their behavior to it. will not welcome changes.
   For example. a common curriculum for Grades 7-9 goes against
   the historically elitist and differentiated grain of secondary
   schooling in Jamaica. and the postponement of selection from
   Grade 6 to Grade 9. would undermine what is at present the
   central organizing principle of the entire educational system.
   Other obstacles are financial. The most significant of these
   is the obligation imposed by Jamaica's public debt. The
   percentage of public revenue committed to debt service has
   remained steady at approximately 40 percent of total public
   expenditure. and 40 percent of total export earnings. for the
   last several years. More recently. following Hurricane Gilbert
   and the last election campaign. the debt service burden has
   increased dramatically. from 39 to 42 percent of government
   expenditure between 1987 and 1988. and further in 1989. As a
   result. barely more than half of the revenue collected by the
   government is available for public investment and spending on
   current services.




                                                             1B-5 

As the data in Table 1:17 show. the share of total p~blic
expenditure allocated to education has declined steadily 6ver       ;',
the past decade. to little more than 11 percent in the most         ·
                                                                    ·
                                                                    ~}
                                                                         J
                                                                         )

recent period. The gravity of this decline is increased by the
fact that the percentage of the education budget, commi tted to
teacher's salaries has steadily increased over this period.         (='1
                                                                    , .j
though the real purchasing power of their salaries has ~lso         ··. .1

fallen significantly. This has meant that the funds aVdilable
to pay for other educational resources -- books, materials, ,
maintenance of facilities -- have practically vanished in many
schools. Despite these declines in educational revenues,
however, the schools continue to receive nearly 17 percent of
the government1s recurrent budget, because of the large share
of total expenditure committed to debt service. Under these
circumstances, major increases in recurrent funding for
education seem unlikely. Such increases would only become
possible with a significant reduction in Jamaica's debt burden.
with a large fall in world interest rates, with a large
increase in taxes, or with large cuts in other public services,
most of which choices can be rated as at best improbable.           ·   ,
                                                                    ··-j,




 Large increases in the revenues available for the exparision and
 improvement of secondary education are made even less likely by
 the Government's stated commitment to give priority to primary
 education in the allocation of revenues available for public
 education. As Table 1:18 shows, the government has
 significantly increased the share of the education budget
'granted to primary schools in the current budget year. with
 corresponding decreases in the shares provided for secondary
 and tertiary education. The share allocated to central
 administration has also increased, and should be watched
 carefully as further increases in administrative costs can be
 one result of administrative reform1
The commitment of the government to the improvement of primary
education is to be welcomed, given the current state of
Jamaica's primary schools, but it makes a large infusion of new
re.ources into the secondary school system even less likely
than it would otherwise be. As a result, the reforms that are
proposed for secondary education will probably have to be
achievable at low or no cost, or else they wi'll have to be
funded by savings achieved elsewhere within the government.
Alternative Projections
Two projections of the public revenue available to the Ministry
of Education during the coming decade based on contrasting sets
of assumptions were prepared for this study. The first set of
projections was based on a series of uniformly'optimistic
assumptions about the Jamaican economy in the coming decade.



1B-6 

,   .   ~   .



                                                     TABLE 1.17

                  PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURE; 1983/84 - 1988/89

                                      Total Expenditure                                         As % of total
             .Financial                 on education                                            Government        As % ofGDP
              Year                     (Current J$ m.)                                          expenditure



                 1983/84                    432.4                                                          13.4       6.2

                 1984/85                    4n.5                                                           13.2       5.1
                                                                                                                               :"
                 1985/86                    507.6                                                          10.9       4.5

                 1986/87                    613.0                                                          10.8       4.6
                                                                                                                               ~::::

                 1987/88                    733.6                                                          12.2       4.7

                 1988/89*                   1024.3                                                         11.2       5.7




                 *Preliminary estimates.


                 Note: This is capital and 'recurrent expenditure through the Ministry of Education only. It thus
                 excludes some direct educational expenditures by other ministries .
                                                                                                       
                                                          ...... :... :.: ..:.::.:...:.:.,.,.:.:.. ,....


                                               Source: Plaming Institute of Jamaica,
                                                Economic and Social Survey Jamaica
                                               (Kingston: author. annuaH various years.




                                                                                                                                       lB-7
                                        TABLE 1.18
       DISTRIBU-nON OF RECURRENT EXPENDI'TURE ON EDUCATION.
                                                                                                .'
                                                                                                ,     .
                                                                                                      ,


                                  1987/88 AN D 1988/89
                                        (In per cent)



                                                                 %Of Total Recurrent
                                                                   expenditure

                       SERVICES
                                                                                            .
                                                                                            .. , j
                                                                                            ~


                                                                                            ..:.,.1
                                                                                                    . ·1
                                                                                                       ,
                                                                1987/88           1988/89
         Infant and Primary
         Education                                                36.0             35.7

         Secondary Education                                      34.4             33.7
                                                                                            ....      }



         Education                                                 8.5              7.3

         Higher Education                                         13.8             15.5

         Central Administration                                    4.0              4.6

         Other                                                     3.3              3.2

         Total                                                   100.0            100.0

         Source: Ministry of Education. Only includes Ministry 01 Education and
                  University of West Indies expenditure.




lB-8
·. 


   It was assumed, for example. that Gross Domestic Product will
   increase by 3 percent per year, in contrast to net growth of
   less than 1 percent per year in the past decade. It was
   further assumed that declining rates of interest and the
   rescheduling of a part of Jamaica's d~bt will allow an increase
   to 70 per.cent in the share of total public expenditure
   allocated to the recurrent budget, and that a renewed public
   commitment to the schools will produce an increase in
   educational funding from approximately 16 percent to 20 percent
   of total recurrent expenditure. If these and the other
   assumptions on which the projection is based prove valid, the
   revenues annually available for secondary education will nearly
   double between now and the turn of the century. which would
   provide sufficient revenues for an ambitious program of
   reform. To the extent that any or all of the assumptions are
   too optimistic. however (e.g. if the economy grows by less than
   3 percent per year), the revenues available will be reduced.
   The projections presented in Table 1:19-are based on a more
   realistic set of assumptions. It is assumed that annual
   economic growth will average 1 percent in the coming decade,
   which is slightly higher than the rate achieved in the past ten
   years. Additional assumptions are that 65 percent of total
   public spending will continue to be assigned to recurrent
   expenditure (i.e. no increase in the debt service burden), that
   the Ministry of Education will continue to receive 16.5 percent
   of the total recurrent budge~. and that the share of revenues·
   available for secondary education will fall to 30 percent of
   all Ministry of Education revenues as the government's
   commitment to primary school improvement takes effect. Under
   these assumptions the revenues annually available for secondary
   education will increase by approximately 15 percent over the
   course of the next decade. to 291 million Jamaican dollars per
   year.
   It should be noted that even these assumptions may prove unduly
   optimistic. If annual economic growth falls below 1 percent.
   for example, or if the share of government revenues required
   for debt service continues to increase, which now appears more
   likely than not, with the recent decline in the exchange rate
   against the U.S. dollar, then the modest rise in revenues
   projected in Table 1:19 could quickly be wiped out. It should
   also be noted. however, that the government is not the only
   source of revenues for financing education. Even if public
   revenues remain stagnant or decline during the coming decade it
   may be possible to generate the resources needed for reform by
   other means. These might include community and/or household
   contributions to the construction or maintenance of schools;
   increased fees in some parts of the system, including senior
   high schools and tertiary institutions; and savings produced by
   better use of current revenues.


                                                             lB-9
                                                                                                                ('       \
                                                                                                                         !
                                                                                                                ;" i


                                                                                                                ~-i



                                                                                                                         i
                                            Table 1.19 
                                                        i~       j

                               Projections of Educational Revenue 
                                                  "-,
                                                       (J$M) 
                                                        "f

                                                                                                                "',
                                                                                                                             ,
        Year                  1987/88       1988/89*      1989/90       1990/91      1991/92       1992/93       "




        GOP                   $17.354       $19.968       $20,168       $20.369       $20.573       $20.779

        Total Gov!.
         Revenue                 5.446         6.020         6.454         6,518        6,583         6,649
                                                                                                                         "'
        Total Govt.                                                                                                      "'
         Expenditure             6.509         8.199        8.281          8.364        8.447         8.532

        Recurrent
         Expenditure             4.189         4.991         5.383         5.436        5.491         5.546 


        Total Moe
         Expenditure               736          955          1.045         1.055        1,066         1,077 

                                                                                                                 ,           I


        Moe Recurrem
         Expenditure               675          793           888           897           906           915

        Secondary Ed.
         Expenditure               236          253           266           269           272           275          "       ,
        -Figures tor 1988/89 are preliminary estimates. Note tnat an apparem increase of 7.2 percem in           "           .

        secondary education funding between 1987/88 and 1988/89 was more tnan wiped out by inflation 

        at approxImately 9 percent. yielding a decline in tne real revenue available for secondary scnoOls. 

                                                                                                                 : .·..1



                                                                                                C-~
                                                                                                                 .               I
                                                                                                                 \' i
                                                                                                                 :
                                                                                                                 " ....
                                                                                                                                 .




lB-10
· ,


       Some possible sources of savings are identified in other
       sections of this report. They include abolishing or bringing
       about major reductions in publicly subsidized boarding
       facilities in secondary schools; reducing the present
       generosity of teachers' leave policies; introducing policies
       that would allow the redeployment of teachers to the schools
       where they are most needed; reducing the cost of schooling in
       Grades 7-9 by de-emphasizing vocational or pre-vocational
       subjects and introducing Technology Studies; and expanding
       enrollments in high and new secondary schools by increasing
       class sizes and introducing the shift system to those schools
       that do not now use it. The revenues that could be saved by
       these means are in some cases sUbstantial. Eliminating public
       subsidies for secondary school boarding would save nearly 10
       million dollars per year. for example. while reducing teachers'
       leave entitlements could save as much as 20 million dollars per
       year.




                                                                1B-11 

,         ;




.....·1
. !
~.,   .




.. ,.'.




"         ,
·. 



  Chapter 2
  A RATIONALE FOR CHANGE

  The preceding chapter described the major featu~es of the
  secondary level of education and the proble.ns which need to be
  addressed in any reform as well as the financial constraints
  which will shape efforts at reform. The problems and the
  related issues include the curriculum, access to secondary
  education, inequity, the effects of the Commpn Entrance
  Examination, and the quality of primary education.
  THE CURRICULUM
  The curriculum of Grades 7-9 is characterized by diversity,
  inequality and deficiencies in some areas. The diversity of
  subjects offered in the high and new secondary schools is
  paralleled in the all-age schools by the variation in the
  emphasis accorded the core and the practical subjects. The
  lack of curricular supervision and the high"degree of local
  discretion perpetuate this diversity. The absence of an agreed
  upon curriculum content for each type of school further
  diversifies student learning.
  The knowledge and skills which students now learn in the three
  types of schools - high, new secondary and all-age - also
  differ in status and value. Thus, students who leave these
  schools with their various certificates, are prepared to pursue
  different paths and to take different and separate places in
  society. An educational system in a democratic society cannot
  continue this official policy of sorting individuals.
  The deficiencies of the curriculum are manifested in students'
  achievement levels in critical subjects such as maths, science
  and language. Furthermore, the special needs of the adolescent
  are poorly addressed in the majority of schools but especially
  in the all-age schools. A balanced curriculum needs to include
  guidance and counselling as well as other aspects of personal
  development for all students.
  There is a need, therefore, for a common curriculum which
  avoids the shortcomings of local discretion, variation in
  content and neglect of students' developmental needs. Such a
  common curriculum, incorporating the knowledge, skills and
  attitudes deemed necessary for all young Jamaicans, is best at
  the grades 1-9 level. It should, in addition, consider the
  special developmental and personal needs of Jamaican
  adolescents in grades 7-9, addressing the problems of
  underachievement, lack of identity and self-knowledge, and low

                                                             2-1 

self esteem. A common grade 7-9 curriculum would be A
continuation of the grade 1-6 curriculum and would provide- a
foundation for a more diversified curriculum at Grades 10
and 11.
                                                                   ','" '1

ACCESS
There are not enough secondary school places for the ave
cohorts of grades 7-9. Access to the valued types of secondary
level education - aspired to by all in society - is extremely
limited. Only 20% of the age cohort at Grade 6 are able to
obtain entry to the high schools. Furthermore. middle class
children continue to enjoy greater chances of gaining entry
than children from poorer classes. Today. only 15% of the
students in the high schools are children of the unskilled.
semi-skilled and unemployed (Miller. forthcoming) despite the
fact that these groups make up about 50% of the population.
Physical expansion, therefore. does not always result in
sUbstantial changes in the relative pattern of opportunities.
Any effort to expand and equalize opportunities must be
accompanied by measures to equalize the possibility of ,
profiting from these opportunities; i.e .· curriculum reform and
improved teachings and more equitable r~source allocation.
OTHER INEQUALITIES
In addition to inequities in the curriculum and in access,
there are gross inequities in resource allocation and staffing
which result in major variation in the quality of instruction
and student learning. These inequalities in resource
allocation widen the differences that exist in the curriculum
and in the composition of the student body in each type of
school. Such discrimination must be reduced or ~liminated.
THE EFFECTS OF THE COMMON ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
In a highly competitive educational system where the number of
pl~ces in the prestige schools is small. some selection device
is necessary. The Common Entrance Examination serves this
purpose but has several harmful consequences. Its effect on
the primary school curriculum is well known, as teachers
convert the curriculum into a drill as a preparation for the
exam. Thus. students get an inferior. unbalanced and limited
education by virtue of this practice. Secondly. those who go
on to a secondary level education - whether in the high schools
or new secondary or grades 7-9 of the all-age schools - are
poorly prepared. lacking basic learning and problem-solving
skills. Finally. the overwhelming majority of the age cohort 
i.e. those who are not selected to sit the exam' and those who
are not selected for the few high school places - experience a
devastating sense of failure which damages their feelings of
self-worth and competence.

2-2
·. 


  Because of the injurious effects of the CEE, and until it is
  discontinued, efforts must be made in the short term. to
  improve curriculum and instruction in the primary school.  The
  replacement of the CEE by an aChievement examination. either
  gradually through expansion of the present CEE test pattern. or
  by immediate substitution of the National Assessment Programme.
  could achieve this goal.

  In summary. a reform effcrt must include the following:

       o   expansion of the number of places available at the
           Grades 7. 8 and 9 level. of high school level.

       o   elimination of the selection devices that serve to
           exclude certain social groups from the most valued
           educational programmes.

       o   measures that will equalize the possibility of all
           children to profit from a secondary education.

  At the same time. the problem of the multiplicity of school
  leaving examinations and their effect on the actual curriculum
  must be addressed through ri~orous supervision. enlightened
  school policies and a reduction in the number of examinations
  that students take.

  The problems and issues discussed in this chapter. all have
  harmful consequences for the Jamaican society and for
  democracy. The three main types of secondary schools - with
  their unequal status and unequal access to the knowledge that
  is most valuable for upward mobility - are aligned with social
  class. Middle class children go to the high schools. poorer
  children to the all-age and new secondary.   This lack of equity
  and th~ favoured status of some groups do not go undetected.
  The resentment and hostility further widen the divisions in the
  society. militating against one of- the very goals of
  education-achieving a good and worthwhile life. Furthermore.        a
  democracy cannot continue to have one group or one class of its
  citizens very poorly served by the education system.

  Nor can Jamaica continue to have the scarce resources of the
  educational system inefficiently ~sed.  The teachers in the
  schools represent a significant hUman resource for the country
  as a whole.  A major portion of the educational budget goes
  towards teachers' salaries.  And yet. the inadequacy or' absence
  of necessary instructional materials and other resources,
  including in-service programmes. limits the teachers'
  effectiveness and compromises the value of their contribution
  to students' learning.  The value of their training. expertise
  and dedication is thus partly negated.




                                                                2-3
The extraordinarily large amounts spent on examinations in the
sys~em, when compared with inputs such as curriculum              "1
development, supervision and textbooks, is another example of     .-1

inefficient expenditure.
Finally, the high drop-out rate in Grades 7-9 reduces the
productivity of the school leavers and treir contribution to
their individual and national welfarJ, and increases the
likelihood of their dependence on the state. There is an
urgent need to increase the quality of instruction and hence
the attractiveness and value of schooling, to increase
students' ability to remain in school, and to increase the
number of places at the secondary level.
The inequalities described in the foregoing section have been
features of education systems in both developed and developing
nations. In the latter case, the colonial heritage of many of
these nations, dictated pa~terns of schooling and curricula
which therefore reinforced those of the metropolitan powers.
Maddock (1983) therefore observes that traditionally most
systems of education have displayed some form of 'bifurcation'
or structural differentiation. The result has been a
separatist system of different types of schools catering to
different segments of the society.
Concommitant with such a system is a process of selection and
allocation and as Maddock (op. cit) notes, systems only differ
in the stage at which the differentiation is carried out. More
importantly, Maddock posits that since the allocation is to a
number of schools, the selection process must be carried out by
a bureaucratic structure which is outside of and transcends the
school.
Many writers (Maddock 1983; Lewin 1985; Hudsori 1985; Whittaker
1983) point to the fact that over the past two to three
decades. many countries have introduced reforms intended to
shift from a system of structural differentiation to one based
on the 'comprehensive principle.I  In the former case,
differentiation of pupils takes place on the transition from
primary to secondary education; i.e., approx~mately after six
years of schooling; in the latter case, dif~erentiation tends
to be delayed to the end of a 'junior high school; i.e., after
                                                  I

nine years of schooling.
Maddock (op. cit.) observes that this shift towards the
'comprehensive principle' removes the corresponding process of
differentiation and selection from an external bureaucratic
structure leaving the structuring and allocation of pupils in
the 'local' administrative regime of the school itself.



2-4
The most important aspect ~f such a shift is a change to an
organization where the crucial structures are the classes
within the school rather than different groups of pupils in
different schools.

These reforms. Lewin (1985) posits. have placed increased
emphasis on the non-economic benefits of equity. national unity
and social development associated with greater access to
education. Similar reforms in the education system in Jamaica
are of paramount importance if large numbe~s of the 12-16 age
cohort are to be beneficiaries of an education which will equip
them to contribute meaningfully to both their personal as well
as national development.

    1.     D. Whittaker. Ten Years on: Progress and problems in
          Finland's school reform Comparative Education. V.
          19(1). 1983

    2.  J. Maddock. The Comparative study of secondary
        educational systems: lessons to be learned. Comparative
        Education. V. 19(3) 1983

    3.  K. Lewin. Quality in question: a new agenda for
        curriculum reform in developing countries. Comparative
        Education. V. 21(2) 1985 p. 117

    4.  C. Hudson.  Post-primary school non-academic
        alternatives: a South Pacific study. Comparative
        Education. V. 21(2) 1985.

    5.  R. E. Slavin (1987) Mastery Learning re-considered.
        Review of Educational Research. V. 57(2) p. 175.




                                                            2-5 

·' .#:




'-     ~.




    '. -j




          .

:    ;-, ~



      .   ,
Chapte~   3
A COMMON CURRICULUM


The fi~st and most fundamental p~oblem that must be add~essed
in any reform in education 'is the cu~riculum i.e. what is
taught to students. and how it is taught. The curriculum is
the formal plan for learning that the schools must try to
implement. and it is also the processes of teaching and
learning that students and teachers undertake.

The education of the individual is a result of both the
explicit goals of the schools - the official curriculum that is
required by the government: and the implicit or attitudinal
results of the policies and practices of the school that affect
students: both of which result in the behavioral effects on the
learner of her or his experience in school. This chapter
brings together these two aspects of curriculum in the Jamaican
context.

3.0   A COMMON CURRICULUM

3.l DEFINITION - A common cu~riculum is a plan of learning for
all children in terms of content goals and learning
experiences: but it must allow for students of different levels
of readiness to learn differently and at different rates.    It
is a plan that includes suggestions for adjusting a common
content and common learning experiences to the varying
abilities of students.   Its organization allows for moving from
relatively simple learning experiences to more complex ones.
and for learners to do so at different paces. The organization
of the curriculum guide establishes a sequence of cumulative
learning. or continuity. as learning units move from the simple
to the more complex.   This ensures a progressively more
demanding performance as more complex materials are dealt with.
and there is more exacting analysis, a greater depth and
breadth of ideas to unde~stand. to'relate to one another, and
to apply.  There is also a greater sophistication and subtlety
of attitudes and sensitivities. While all children are exposed
to essentially the same content, the cumulative progress of
learning the content by some will be more rapid and
sophisticated than by others.   In effect. a common curriculum
provides all children with the same basic subject matter, but
it allows for children with different levels of ~eadiness and
ability to proceed at rates of learning.




                                                           3-l
Inherent in this approach is the notion of 'mastery learning'
where a level of performance representing mastery of a given            .' -.
                                                                    c            ,
skill or concept is established (Bloom 1976). Where this
approach to teaching and learning is app~ied, mastery learning
theory holds that instructional time and resources should be
used to bring all students up to an acceptable level of
achievement, Slavin (1987). This contrasts with the view that
differences in student aptitude will necessarily lead to
differences in stud~nt achievement. Thus rather than holding
instructional time constant and allowing achievement to vary as
in traditional instruction, achievement level is held constant
and time allowed to vary.
If this principle is accepted then the major problem that
arises is that some students take longer than others to achieve
a particular objective. Slavin (op. cit) contends that to
overcome this obstacle two options are possible. Firstly
corrective instruction can be given outside of class time to
those who need additional assistance. corrective instruction
given during class time would mean that those who achieve               ..   ,
mastery early would spend considerable time waiting for the
slower learners to 'catch up'. This option is, however,
expensive and difficult to arrange. On the other hand.
enrichment or lateral extension activities can be given to
early masters while corrective instruction is given to those
who need it.
Mastery learning should not be interpreted as justification for
holding students back from progressing through the common
school grades with their peers. Failure to master the content
ass igned to a grade level, i. e. "Grade I" reading or "Grade 4"
mastery. should not be used as a criterion for inhibiting a
student's maturity.
A common curriculum should also provide for integration among
units of different subjects. Thus, for example. mathematics -
where appropriate -- will be included in and reinforce science     ~.        i
                                                                        , :
or social studies. so that the learning experiences and
concepts amplify one another and do not occur 1n isolation.
The reinforcement and subject interrelationships may be more
sophisticated and complex for the faster learners than for the
slower learners. Nevertheless, there is an attempt to provide
all studen~s with quality learning experiences. The curriculum
guide then. provides both for sequencing, pacing and cumulative
learning within subject areas, and for horizontal reinforcement
among the units of work of different subjects. This
combination of vertical and horizontal interrelationships -- or
integration -- is a basic characteristic of good curricular
organization. This is essential if the school is to provide
common content and learning experiences for students with
differences in readiness and learning capacity. It is also


3-2
more reflective of the reality in which the child lives and
will live as an adult-- the world is not Qrganized into
discrete and unrelated areas of knowledge!
3.2 RATIONALE - Why should there be q common curriculum for
grades 7 to 9 in Jamaica? The basic reasons were outlined in
Chapter 2. Three specific objectives are: to achieve greater
equity in the secondary school system to grade 9 at level 5; to
improve the quality of learning: and to enhance individual
productivity.
3.2.1 EQUITY - The most serious flaw in Jamaican secondary
education is lack of equity. Children have unequal access to
opportunities for learning. Some schools are more effective
than others. partly because of the different resources given to
them and in the use of those resources to provide a quality
education. Chapter 1 outlined some of the differences among
the three major types of secondary schools - new secondary.
traditional, high and all-age. Student achievement rises
markedly.
Table 3.1 compares the three major types of high schools. new
secondary schools and all-age schools -- which provide
education for the vast majority of lower secondary school
students -- 98.9% of the total.
The provision of a common curriculum -- along with supporting
implementation measures and adequate reform of the school
structure -- is recommended in this study, as the most likely
method of breaking into the existing cycl. that sees the
schools perpetuating poverty and inequity in Jamaican society.
3.2.2 QUALITY - Providing equal access to education is one
thing; providing equal access to quality education is another.
There is a serious need for a general improvement in teaching.
By the end of Grade 9. adolescents need to have the basics of a
quality education: literacy, numeracy and enough related
knowledge. skills and attitudes to cope with their
environment. Nearly one/half of all Jamaican students do not
achieve these standards in sChool. (See Chapter 6: Human
Resource Issues).
3.2.3 PRODUCTIVITY - The third objective of a common
curriculum is to enable J.amaican students to be productive
citizens. whether they continue their academic education. enter
technical or vocational training. or enter the world of work.
Every child needs a minimum set of cognitive competencies to be
productive; and when the majority of students acquire them they
will be trainable in the more complex job skills required in
today's workforce. A basic education of nine years is
essential if the majority of Jamaicans are to assume
professional. skilled or semi-skilled positions, and if they
are to have the capacity to acquire more education or training
rapidly and effectively.
                                                          3-3
                                                                                               .. 



                                            TABLE 3.1
                                                                                                       "~"     -', ,
              COMPARISON OF HIGH SCHOOLS, NEW SECONDARY SCHOOLS,                                       \-1
                AND ALL-AGE SCHOOLS (Grades 7-9) BY KEY INDICATORS                                         ~       .
                                                                                                           :i
                                                                                        ,              ..... !



                              Traditional        New Secondary         AU-age
                                                                                                       /:.,
                                                                                                       · I J       :

      Enrollments              19.5%                38.9%              40.5%                               -       )




      Recurrent                 $1669                $1202              $558
      expenditures                                                                                             l
                                                                                                           . j
                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                       ... '. ~
      Teacher
      Qualifications
        Pre-trained              2.9%                   3.7%            3.7%
                                                                                                               J
                                                                                                       ....
         Trained                  56.4                  88.0            94.1
         Pre-trained                                                                                   ·       .   ;
         Graduate                 13.5                   0.4
                                                                                                       "       ,
         Trained (BAlBS)
         Graduate                27.2                    7.8             2.0
                                                                                                       ' .1
      Total                      2835                   4491            5536                                   I



      Teacher/Pupil Ratio         1:19                  1:21            1:40
      FaCilities               Individual          Individual          Open
                               classrooms.         classrooms.         classrooms.
                               good equip          average             poor equipment.
                               ment. fumiture      eqUipment.          fumlture shortage
                               adequate            fumiture shortage
      Student Entry            95% CEE             Free flow           Free flow
                                                   from feeder         from feeder
                                                   schools             schools
                                                                                                      ·-       ~

      Student Achievement
                                                                                                      .,
        Pollard Language
                                                                                                      .... j
        Arts Test                                                                                          .,
           Composition
              Top 20%            53%                     6%              4%
              Bottom 10%          0%                      10            13%
                                                                                                       ; .i
              Comprehension
                Top 10%           7%
                No Score                                12%             25%                            . ,

      Irwin Reading &
      Comprehension Test
         Below Grade 4         1.06%                38.8%              20.4%                          ·. .
                                                                                                         .
         Below Grade 6         2.56%                59.6%              38.8%                          :.-.1
         Grade 6 & below       3.56%                69.5%              50.6%
         Grade 6 & above      97.02%                40.4%              61.2%                               ,::«.
         Above Grade 6        96.02%                30.5%              49.4%
                                                                                                       ".,;
                                                                                COOIr-C3-D02




3-4
3.2.4 In countries like Sweden 1 and Finland 2 , these
objectives of greater equity" and better quality were attained
by introducing a common or comprehensive school structure from
Grades 1 - 9 with free compulsory education for children
between the ages of 7 and 16. In both countries the intention
was to replace the variegated system with a system which would
unify. lengthen and broaden education for this age cohort.
In Sweden equity was ellsured by statutory provisions concerning:
      (1)  goals by which teaching was to be governed;
      (2)  subjects and courses which were to ,be provided by all
         schools throughout the country.
Recommendations were laid down concerning:
      (1) working methods;
      (2)  parental and pupil participation in decision making.

The reform of the curriculum in both these countries aimed at
promoting the balanced growth of integrated individuals who
learned through creative activity. In Sweden at the Grade 7 
9 level in the main the curriculum consisted of language.
mathematics, social subjects and science subjects and to a
lesser extent of home economics and handicraft.
3.3 GOALS - Goals for a general education for the first cycle
of secondary edu~ation should include the following:
         To think logically and clearly;
         To be aware, creative and flexible in outlook;
         To learn how to learn so as to acquire useful
         knowledge, skills and attitudes for the rest of one's
         life;
         To communicate effectively through written and oral
         expression;
         To be numerate and to manipulate efficiently minimum
         math functions;
         To appreciate and manage basic scientific and technical
         concepts and skills;


J.    Compulsory Education, The Swedish National Board of
      Education, Information Section. S-106 42 Stockholm.
2     Whittaker, David J., Ten Years on: progress and problems
      in Finland's school reform. In: Comparative Education,
      Vol. 19 No.1 1983.

                                                              3-5
                                                                                 i
                                                                       i.       ,r


        To express oneself aesthetically and to appreciate
        aesthetic forms and behavior;
                                                                        "
                                                                            ,
                                                                                    ,
                                                                                    ,
                                                                                    ,
                                                                   --:          ~~!
        To understand and participate meaningfully in social
        processes in Jamaica and the rest of the world.                ',-,         \

certainlY, other goals or broad-based ~,earning objectives are
desirable, but these emerge as a Lore set of goals for each
child to attain.
3.4 SUBJECT AREAS - From these goals the study has identified
seven content areas: language arts, including foreign
language, mathematics, science. aes'thetics. technology studies,
social studies and personal family studies. These areas
                                                                   ~.
                                                                   ,
                                                                            ..  1
                                                                                "




organize conceptually the planned learning experiences which
should follow from the above goals as well as from the                          "
                                                                                    i
practical daily life of the child in schools:- then provide a      ".'

                                                                            ','
                                                                                    I




base for further studies in senior grades or for on-the-job
skill development in the world of work.
A survey turned up the list of 22 subjects currently taught in
Grades 7, 8 and 9 classes. (Chapter 1, Table 7). There is of
course, no necessary correlation between the syllabus of a
course taught in one school with a course taught under the same
title in another.
The seven subjects recommended below are an amalgamation of the
present areas of knowledge taught in the schools, combined with
the needs that people have now in the modern world.*
                          LANGUAGE ARTS
The overall aim is to foster students' acquisi~ion and use of
language so that they can communicate effectively, confidently
                                                                       "
and appropriately to a variety of audiences and for a variety
of purposes. The Language Arts Programme should consist of an
integration of listening. speaking. reading and writing and
thinking skills. It should provide for (i) identification of
the speaking, reading and language arts needs of ~ach student;
(ii) special attention for students who have not reached a
satisfactory level of speech and reading achievement in primary
school: and (iii) development of comprehension to the level
where students can, think reflec~ively about problem-solving and
achieve satisfaction in doing so. The programme should include
the basic categories of clear speech; of reading, both silent
and' oral; composition, in which children write in a variety of
styles for various purposes; literature. in which appreciation
of good prose and poetry is fostered: and enough grammar to
analyze the structure of language in the context of clear
expression. Particular attention should be paid to the
Creole-English dichotomy, with the use of tape recorders for
self-analysis and comparison with standards whenever possible.

3-(
.. 


       Children should be taught to have pride in the fact that they
       will know two languages if they master creole and standard
       English.  In some schools, with Ministry permission, a foreign
       language such as Spanish could be offered.

                                 MATHEMATICS

    The overall aim is to build on the numeracy knowledge and
    skills developed during Grades 1-6, in order to impart new
    knowledge and to encourage a deeper appreciation of
    mathematics.  In addition to the basic four operations of
    arithmetic. students should develop some knowledge and skills
    in algebra and geometry. A range of skills in these areas
    needs to be developed in order that students learn to describe
    a variety of situations in a precise manner and to approach the
    solving of problems in the real world with confidence. They
    should develop appreciation for the intrinsic power and beauty
  . of pattern within mathematics. by using applications and
    examples rooted in the physical world to develop examples of
    concepts in the early stages.

                                   SCIENCE

   The overall aim is to consolidate and extend the work done in
   Grades 1-6, focusing on process and inquiry skills, knowledge,
   and attitudes. The students' environment should be the prime
   source of materials for scientific study and analysis.   Content
   and process skills. as well as attitudes. can best be taught
   through an integrated science curriculum. as a necessary
   foundation for the separate sciences and technical/vocational
   subjects, after Grade 9; attention to the biographies of great
   scientists ~nd their working techniques is also useful. This
   approach will develop in Grade 7-9 students a degree of
   scientific literacy and technological awareness. of special
   importance for thos~ whose formal education may be concluded at
   Grade 9.

                               SOCIAL STUDIES

   Social studies is primarily concerned with the study of people
   -- their activities and relationships as they interact with
   each other and react to their physical and social environments
   in an effort to meet their needs. As a multi-disciplinary
   subject. it draws subject matter from history. geography,
   political science. economics. sociology and anthropology.   The
   overall aim is to explore how individuals and groups cope with
   living, change. conflict and interdependence. More
   specifically. it should develop in students an understanding
   for:  how people make use of their physical environment, and
   how the physical environment contributes to and influences the
   way people live; how people organize themselves in communities:



                                                                 3-7
                                                                   ,   .


selected national. regional and global issues and problems: and
continuity and change in human societies as well as the nature
of social change and reactions to change. The factual content
is best taught in themes. with modules of work integrated
around concepts of human society.
                       TECHNOLOGY STUDIES
Technology studies as proposed here is an innovation in the
curriculum. (see chapter 4 and the supplement on Tech/Voc.
Education) It combines an understanding of principles and
concepts taught in science with the real and practical world of
technology. Students should learn how simple and available                 ,"
machines work (ego telephones. toasters. small engines) by
working with them through assembly. repair. use and design
analysis. The overall aim is to develop an understanding of
how some basic and relatively simple technologies work; to
acquire skills to use them effectively; and to unde~stand them
as a process. Social technologies should also be discussed and                  ,
                                                                           .    :
developed: principles of mass production. management. and
banking. Technology studies should provide students with a
common base on which to take more advanced science or upon
which to specialize after Grade 9 in technical and vocational
studies. There will be some overlap with science. but the                  i.,'
emphasis should be on systems and manual skills.
                           AESTHETICS
Aesthetics combines music. drama. art. crafts and dance to
develop in students an understanding and appreciation for art
and art forms. The overall aim is to enhance the emotional
maturity of the adolescents. to encourage their creative self
expression. to sensitize them to be responsive to art forms.
and to enrich the quality of their lives. Jamaica is
especially rich in music. dance and art forms. and students
need to understand their history and function in contemporary
society. Aesthetics should help students to plan and engage in
leisure activities through their personal experience in the
arts: they should develop effective. cognitive and psycho-motor
skills in a context of expressive awareness and action.
              PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT/FAMILY STUDIES
Personal Development draws on physical education. health
education. and guidance. The overall aim is to deepen students
understanding about themselves, their emotional and physical
well-being. and how they can live healthfully and happily as
individuals and in families. While many of the activities
should contain knowledge and skills useful to attain this aim.
there should also be opportunities for learning career
development skills and the sociology of family life. There
should also be opportunities for exercise. sportsmanship,
sporting skills. team-building and general physical development.
3-8
·. 

   It is recommended that the F~mily Studies elements of the guide
   be developed distinctly. The curriculum guide should.combine
   Food & Nutrition. Clothing & Textiles. and Money Management
   under the general rubric of Family Studies.

   The schematic representation on Figure 1 depicts the seven
   subject areas and describes how the varying abilities of
   students can be accommodated through a mastery learning
   approach. At the lower end of the diagram. corrective
   instruction catering to the slower students is more teacher
   directed. At the upper end. where students are assumed to be
   capable of early mastery. there is increasing dlversification.
   independent activities and what Slavin (1997) refers to as
   lateral extension activities. The integrated nature of the
   curriculum is represented by .the dotted lines and arrows
   between subjects.

   3.5   TEACHING METHODS

   For the above goals and objectives to be achieved. the
   curriculum must be inquiry/discovery oriented. with students
   being given opportunities to raise questions and seek answers
   to these questions under the guidance of a teacher.   Teachers
   must believe that every child is capable of learning. although
   in different manners and at different rates.  Classrooms should
   be managed in an open. flexible and democratic manner. Reading
   and information-gathering skills should be emphasized.
   Problem-solving approaches. involving skills of research and
   analysis are recommended. as are group process skills -
   working in groups. respecting the opinions of others. assuming
   different roles (leader. rapporteur. participant. etc.).
   Communication in the classroom should be from student to
   student; teach~r to student; student to teacher and not only
   from teacher to class.

   Instruction should be organized in interdisciplinary units. and
   use should be made of classroom and community resources. both
   human and physical. as a means of enriching the experiences
   provided. Field trips. demonstrations. projects. role play,
   team teaching, radio and audio-visual aids each have a part to
   play in this process.

   Language development should be the concern of every teacher and
   every teacher should be aware of the Creole-Standard English
   continuum. and able to use an ESL approach in teaching
   English.  The teaching of good communication skills should be
   integrated into every activity in which students. are involved.
   Emphasis should be on oral work. which should always precede
   any writing task.   Approaches through drama should be
   frequently adopted.




                                                             3-9
w
  I
....... 

o

                                                                        PROPOSED SCHEME FORA
                                                                       COMMON CORE CURRICULUM 

                                                                                             GRADES 7-9 





            ENRICHMENT                    7
                                                                                              INDEPENDENT WORK

               (higher level                                           ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCES  PROJECTS ETC.
                                          9
               achievement)



                                          9
                                                 t
                                                 Z
                                                         O
                                                         W                                   BASIC      CONCEPTS                   IN                          {J]       »
                                                 ~       ffi                                             ALL                                                   "J>       9
            COMMON
                                          8
                                                 ~

                                                 ::J
                                                 t
                                                         I
                                                         Z
                                                                                             CURRICULUM                  AREAS                                 m <:
                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                         ~
            ELEMENTS
                                                 en      W
               (All students)                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                   INCRE.,SING 

                                              LANGUAGE       SOCIAL    PEASONALJ TECHNOLOGY                                      SCIENCE                MATH   AESTHETICS        DIVERSIFICATION 

                                          7     ARTS         STUDIES     FAMILY
                                                                        STUDIES                       STUDIES
            CORRECTIVE                    7
            INSTRUCTION
               (Lower level
                                          9                                                   TEACHER DIRECTED
               achievement)
                                                                                                                                                                  Cooir-CI-003

                                                         Figure 1. Proposed Scheme for a Common Code Currfculum Grades 1-9




               l ",
               ....,;
                        ~1
                        Jj   .- . .....
                             \' '-.""
                                 :~ ;..
                                                                        ,t'
                                                                         fII.~.
                                                                                     "-;'1
                                                                                  __",..J
                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                ,-'      ....... :   r
                                                                                                                          I, ,
                                                                                                                          ,-.;';"4".,   t .~;;:~~.~'J
                                                                                                                                                                 .', "
                                                                                                                                                                                  ::':.:::1   ,,,::_:; ":~":~J   t' -"         '1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...... ~ .' ..~ J 

..

     3.6                                         .
           REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTING THE CURRICULUM
     This section identifies essential measures for" implementing a
     common curriculum for secondary schools: and it identifies
     likely additional measures whichwoul~ enhance the overall
     quality and effectiveness of such a curriculum. There are six
     essential measures, and to achieve minimum effectiveness, a'll
     seven measures -- in greater or less degree . - need to be
     adopted. The additional measures are more discrete in that
     each stands more by itself than in combination with the
     others. These additional measures have been ordered by 

     importance. 

                            ESSENTIAL MEASURES
     It must be emphasized that good planning and implementation at
     the Grades 7, 8 and 9 level of curriculum will be only
     marginally useful if the primary schools remain at their 

     present levels of effectiveness. 

     Most of the measures discussed below apply equally to the first
     and second cycles of primary education.
     3.7 CURRICULUM GUIDES - Curriculum guides are concise outlines
     of the fundamental ideas in a subject or area of study in the
     curriculum, adapted to a particular age group of students. The
     guides are for use by principals and teachers in the selection
     of topics for teaching and learning: and for education
     officers as standards for implementation and evaluation. They
     should be a high priority for printing and distribution by the
     Ministry.
     3.8 TEXTBOOK PROVISION, DISTRIBUTION AND ADAPTATION 
     Increased production and distribution of textbooks and
     materials is necessary for the implementation of the
     curriculum: and to ensure that all children have access to
     learning activities. However, their contents must be relevant
     to the topics of study in the curriculum guides so that
     teachers can use them effectively. It is not enough to provide
     textbooks; efforts must be made to ensure that they are used in
     pedagogically sound ways by teachers and students. Curricular
     adaptation of the texts and materials is an important first
     step in this regard; supervision by principals and education
     officers must include in-service strategies for this purpose.




                                                               3-11 

3.9 PRE-SERVICE TRAINING ADAPTATION - It is not env~sioned
that there will be fundamental changes in the teacher training      "I
curriculum: however. if teacher training is to influence the        ,
                                                                     !. 1
                                                                         t

instructional practices of teachers, at-least three steps           t...>

should be taken:
                                                                    "'"'
                                                                     ·    1

       (i)    teaching practices should be adapted to ~he various
              curriculum subject areas, curricular glides and
              textbooks
       (ii)  remediation should receive priority with respect to
             the basic skills of numeracy and literacy.
3.10 IN-SERVICE TEACHER EDUCATION - A compatible in-service
training program needs to be designed and implemented to
provide teachers with supportive knowledge, skills and
confidence so that they can teach the curriculum. This element      ,
                                                                         ,;
is discussed in more detail in Chapter 6.
 3.11 STRENGTHENING OF SUPERVISION - The improvement of
 instruction is dependent on adequate supervision in the
 schools. The current cadre of territorial education officers
 who supervise primary and secondary school operations must
 increase in number, be upgraded through training, and be           . i
 supported organizationally and legislatively. Implementation
 of the common curriculum will require at least 100 such
 officers. organizationally, one or two senior officers at each
.regional office would supervise the work of education officers
 in the field.
It is proposed that both primary and secondary officers be          ..   ,
managed by a single unit at the headquarters of the MOE and by
a single management unit in each regional office*. Status and
pay should be equal for both primary and secondary officers,
dependent on equivalent qualifications. Officers should be
seen as concerned with the entire public system, and the
responsibility for consistency and coherence in the school
system. Upgrading would take place through management training
courses which could be provided jointly by the Ministries of
                                                                    .... 

                                                                    . ,

Education and Public Service. Most importantly, education
officers need organizational authority from the Ministry
through revision of the Education Act and the Code of
Regulations to support them in their dealings with principals
and teachers. While the education officers need to be helpful
and advisory to principals and administrators. they will also
have to supervise teachers and principals with authority to
ensure that curricular guidelines are followed, and that
students are served and protected as the law requires.


*See Appendix C - the role of the Education Officer

3-12
3.12 EXAMINATION REFORM - Currently steps are being taken to
implement the National Assessment Program (NAP) the Common
Entrance Examination. The NAP includes achievement and
diagnostic testing throughout primary schools with the purpose
of reorienting teachers from focusing ~ainly on the quickest to
adapting instruction to individual differences. particularly
those of slow learners. Ultimately. at the completion of the
common curriculum at G~ade 9. a School Orientation Exam - in
~ombination with contiauous testing - should provide valid
criteria for selecting students for further academic or
technical schooling, or for the world of work. The NAP testing
would:.

         discriminate effectively between those able to succeed
         in the second cycle of secondary schools and the less
         capable pupils;

         not discriminate unfairly against underprivileged
         students:

         test knowledge and skills relevant to the curriculum
         and to society at large;

         provide incentives for teachers to raise the overall
         quality of basic education:

                       ADDITIONAL MEASURES

3.13   TEACHER SUPPLY AND INCENTIVES

The educational level. the training and the motivation of
teachers are crucial in raising the quality of teaching.
Therefore the Ministry needs to recruit, select. train and
promote the best possible candidates to ensure quality of
instruction in the curriculum. This is especially important
now as the profession of teaching is not as attractive as it
used to be in Jamaica. While teachers' salaries are
competitive with those of comparable civil servants,
opportunities in the private sector and abroad are perceived to
be greater. A combination of changes, however. involving
salaries. promotion increments and allowances could attract and
retain capable and motivated tea~hers. This issue is discussed
in more depth in Chapter 6.

3.14   SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY MATERIALS. EQUIPMENT AND CABS

Given the importance of science and technology in any
modernizing society, it is important that teaching allows for
much practical activity and that materials and equipment are
available. Hands-on work is important not only for students
pursuing further academic education, but as a base for those
going into technical and agricultural schools later on.


                                                              3-13
                                                                  .,
                                                                       -   .

The use of cheap, readily available materials has already been
described in a handbook, "Improvisations in Science: A
Handbook for Teachers" by J.Holung and J. Mitchelmore of the
MOE. Jamaica.
3.15   POLICY RESEARCH AND FORMATIVE EVALUATION
The Planning Unit and other rela_~d units in the MOE will need
strengthening of their data gathering and processing
resources. This is particularly the case regarding statistics
related to enrollments, intakes. repetition. drop-outs. student
graduates; and teaching and administrat~ve personnel. In
addition. formative evaluation exercises of the kind planned in
the NAP are needed to identify. analyze and provide
alternatives to trouble spots in the teaching of the common
curriculum. The same should be done for the large-scale
in-service training that ~ill have to be conceived and
launched. The information thus gleaned should be constantly
given to Education Officers and senior officers across the
Ministry. As a prerequisite for accurate data. Education
Officers should continually audit the accuracy of school
information at the classroom level.
3.16   SCHOOL RENOVATION
Without assuming capital costs for construction or measures for
extensive renovation. there are opportunities for communities
to assist in school renovation. All-age schools, particularly
in rural areas, need community support to repair or renovate
classrooms. teachers quarters. or assembly halls. In addition.
a policy of matching grants from the MOE along with community
efforts can assist in these efforts. Equally important is the
mObilization of community support whereby the parents have an          . !
identity with the school and its new common curriculum. When
parents are active in the educational process. it is more
likely that their children will attend school with motivation.
Recent moves by the Ministry of Education in this direction
hold great promise.
3.17 As a final comment on a common curriculum, it is
important for the reader to understand that.curriculum cannot
be dealt with in isolation from its context. The experiences
that students have. in school "getting an education" - are the         ,   ;
result of:
        the formal plans that are made
        the behavioral effects of processes and plans
        the organizational and policy framework
This chapter has dealt with all three of these elements.
Chapters 5, 6 and 7 discuss with various aspects and
consequences for implementation of these three domains, if
genuine reform is to be accomplished.
3-14
·.

     A Common Curriculum - Process and Content
     A school system that has a well-developed, up-to-date
     curriculum, tailored both to the needs of the students and of·
     the nation, has a backbone from which~trong. flexible,
     responsive school activities can develop. And the vertebrae in
     the backbone of a school system are curriculum guides that
     outline the studies required of students.



     This study cannot overemphasize the importance of the central
     role that curriculum guides, developed by the Ministry of
     Education. ought to play in the organization and management of
     the schools.   If MOE curriculum guides are considered to be the
     central basis for the organization of the school system. then
     they become the basic source of supervision and direction for
     teachers. Each subject or each grade must have an outline of
     what is expected of students. and therefore, of their teachers.

     What are Curriculum Guides

     A curriculum guide should be a concise outline of the
     fundamental ideas in a subject or an area of study in the
     curriculum. adapted to age groups of students.

             Sometimes. guides contain sub-topics that are described
             as outcomes expected of students.

             sometimes also. there are suggestions about teaching
             methods that are suited to a topic.

             There are sometimes suggestions or even prescriptions
             about timetable allocations for a subject.

             The best guides for students in primary and first-cycle
             secondary schools are interdisciplinary, or integrated
             in the patterns of knowledge that they require students
             to study.  Children to age 14 are still trying to form
             and test values. Research has shown that value
             formation stops when the specialized teaching of
             separate subjects begins in secondary schools.

            Se.nior cycle guides can be more subject-specif i·c as
            students begin to specialize and narrow their tertiary
            or vocational choices.

            Evaluation processes compatible with the goals and
            structures of the subject of a curriculum guide can
            also be included in a curriculum guide, but the
            outcomes that are expected of students should not be
            stated as absolutes. Each student is unique, therefore
            teachers must have latitude to adapt outcomes to each
            child's pattern of growth and development.
                                                                 :; -15
Developing Curriculum Guides

The development of national curriculum quides requires a            :,
                                                                   ' ..-I
                                                                             t


process of consultation under the guiding hand of Ministry of
Education officers.  The Ministry of Education already has a
statement of goals for the curriculum of the schools.  These
'loah shouid be the guiding principles that govern the work of
~urriculum committee members, after the statement has been
examined and approved by the senior executive group of the
Ministry, including the Minister and the Minister of State.

The members of guide development committees are usually
teachers, professors, subject experts and sometimes future
employers. The documents that are developed must be compatible
with the goals of the nation, must be based on the best
available research about learning and about the subject matter,
and must be capable of implementation by teachers, using
available resources.

It follows, of course, that guides must be periodically
reviewed and revised, in order to maintain an appropriate blend
of:
                                                                       . .i

        philosophical goals: 

        research findings, and 

        realistic objectives . . 


When completed and approved, curriculum guides are used to
direct and evaluate what students learn, and what teachers
teach. A description of the role of the Integrator in
developing the curriculum is provided in Appendix c.

Grades One to Six                                                            .

                                                                            ':1


There is already a complete set of Jamaican-developed
curriculum guidelines for Grades One to Six. Although these
are nearly ten years old, they deal with the basic skills of
 learning and are not in urgent need of change. There are
higher priorities for curriculum development right now, so
"revision of these documents should be delayed until the matters
that follow have been undertaken.                                  .'-.'

The existing Grades l-to 6 documents should be redistributed,
and reprinted if necessary, in numbers sufficient to re-equip
education officers, principals, teachers, school offices and
teacher education institutions.  Some thought and effort might
be given to summarizing and consolidating the six documents
into one, if economies in printing and distribution can be         "   .....
effected (although some Ministry personnel disagree with this
suggestion) .                                                      ....  

3-16
·.

     Grades 7, 8 and 9
     A process of development of curriculum guides for Grades Seven,
     Eight and Nine is beginning now. Teams will have been named to
     begin writing documents. These teams ~hould include not only
     one or two academics but good practicing teachers and education
     officers with broad experience in classroom observation.
     Drafts of the documents produced by the writing teams should be
     circulated for comment and criticism by interested and
     qualified persons. before final recommendation for approval and
     printing is made.
     Grades 10 and 11
     The next few years should be ·a period of transition for Grades
     10 and 11. as the effects of the intrOduction of a common
     curriculum in Grades 7, 8. and 9 are realized.
     There are some guides available for the subjects taught in
     Grades 10 and 11 of secondary schools. high schools and
     technical schools.
     For the academic subjects, existing guides should be used by
     education officers on an ad hoc basis, until the effects of the
     new curriculum in Grades 7, 8, and 9 can be ascertained. CXC
     syllabi will be used for many subjects.
     For the tech/voc subjects, guides exist in all subjects and
     should continue to be used until the effects of any new
     emphases in Grades 7. 8 and 9 can be ascertained. along with
     the results of the current analysis of the appropriateness of
     the CXC syllabi in technical subjects.
     In general, the goal should be to work closely with the CXC to
     establish syllabi that are suitable for Jamaican students, with
     regard to both content and difficulty.
     For students who do not sit the CXC the alternate route to the
     Secondary School Certificate should remain in place for the
     next few years. Providing temporary courses of study for these
     students should be a major priority of the core and tech/voc
     curriculum units, using the field experience of the education
     officers. until there is sUfficient information and experience
     to mount a major revision of the curriculum for these grades.
     Curriculum Guides and Textbooks
     The Primary Textbook programme has been closely allied with the
     Grades 1-6 curriculum guides from the start. The manuscripts
     of the readers were written through the initiative of.the Core
     Curriculum Unit and were ready for publication when the free
     book/printing programme was conceived. Local authors are a
     quality element in the Jamaican school system.

                                                                  3-17
                                                                             ,-,
                                                                   f   I/o                '   ·




                                                                                 ...",
                                                                                 ,
                                                                                  -.  I




The Secondary Textbook Rental Scheme is providing books that
would be otherwise unavailable to the students. The plan will
continue at least until the loan from Britain is repaid. Every
effort should be made to select books that are as relevant to
the Jamaican curriculum as possible. The proposal for writing
and joint publishing of books in Jamaica should be pursued
vigorously.
A major concern in the Textbook Rental Project should be
addressed as soon as possible.
High interest. low~vocabulary books should be produced by the
project. for students who have difficulty reading. and who are
present in varying numbers in all secondary schools. The
HIRLAP project in the Core curriculum Unit can be one valuable
source of manuscripts.
Publications produced by JAMAL appear to be particularly
suitable for students in Grades 7. 8 and 9 who need materials                :-:-',
of useful social content as well as appropriate reading                              .J
levels. The JAMAL publications should be examined for
relevance to the new curriculum guides as soon as possible.
Curriculum Guides and Testing
The National Assessment Programme tests are already coordinated
with the existing curriculum guides at the primary school level.
The pattern of aChievement testing in the Grades 1 to 6
assessment programme should be extended to the Grades 7 to 9
common curriculum.
As soon as the Grade Six Achievement Test (NAP) is validated,                r-",
it should be used as the Common Entrance Exam. Such a move
will_increase the use of the curriculum guides by primary
teachers, particularly in Social Studies and Science and
Aesthetics. and thus enable teachers to help students develop
better awareness of themselves and the world.
A Grade Nine Achievement Test. or orientation exam. should be
developed. on the same model as the Grade Six Test. as soon as
the curriculum guides for Grade 7. 8 and 9 are completed. (See
appendix (a) - The National Assessment Program).                             ,        I




Cu:riculum Guides and Teacher Education
If MOE curriculum guides are considered to be the basic
organizing element of the school system, then they also become
the major component of the academic studies at teacher training
institutions. Teachers-in-training have to learn about process
- about how to teach - but their other major objective is to
learn about what to teach - about content.

3-1B
·.

     The MOE curriculum guides must be familiar to all teachers; and
     beginning teachers must be particularly knowledgeable about
     those curriculum guides for which they will b~ responsible in
     their first years on the job. An adequate supply of curriculum
     guides must always be available at th~Teachers' Colleges and
     the Faculty of Education of the university.
     Curriculum Guides and Teacher In-Ser.vice
     The in-service programs that are a constant necessity for
     teachers everywhere normally should be based on the curriculum
     guides. Education officers should be constantly assessing the
     needs for improving teaching in their groups of schools. The
     officers should then help to plan in-service programs to meet
     those needs. The curriculum guide should serve as the
     coordinating tool for cooperative action by teachers' subjects
     associations. by teachers' college staff members. by visiting
     consultants. or by anyone else from the public or private
     sectors who can be useful in the improvement of instruction.
     It is often argued that curriculum guides are "not used" by
     teachers and therefore should not be produced. or should be
     distributed only to educati~n officers and principals. In
     either case. the role of the curriculum guide as the backbone
     of the school system is not clearly understood.
     Good teachers will use the guides as signposts through the
     complex and confusing variety of sometimes conflicting advice
     from experts. of the variety of textbooks and other prepared
     materials advocated by publishers. and of the problems
     associated with planning and adapting work to the needs of
     different students.
     Education officers will use the guides as the evaluation
     criterion for observing the work of teachers and students.
     Teachers who do not use the guides will still find themse~ves
     directed by their contents. because both approved textbooks and
     Ministry achievement tests should be designed from the topics
     of the guides. Ministry education officers. working with
     school principals. will evaluate a teacher'S performance
     against her or his skill and dedication in helping students
     understand the learning described" in the guides.
     We have given little attention to the topic of computers in
     education. for two reasons. Firstly. Jamaica has scarce
     resources. and despite the continual lowering of costs. the
     possibility of acquiring significant numbers of computers is
     remote. The danger of further skewing the inequities in the
     system by providing a few machines that would. in the present
     system. go to the already privileged high schools. is contrary
     to the thrust of this study.


                                                               3-19
                                                                    ..              .. 




Secondly. and as important. is the fact that computers in
themselves are not a subject of study in the lower secondary
school. but rather. a different kind of tool that can enhance
some kinds of thinkinq. Computers are oeinq used in three
distinct ways in those countries that have been able to afford
them in quantity in their schools.
       1)  In computer science courses at the senivr secondary
           staqe. students learn to specialize in the techniques         ..,
                                                                         '\
           and technoloqies of the hardware and software of              .
                                                                          .. ,
                                                                              ,
           computers. These students can become proqrammers and
           system desiqners.
       2)  There are proqrammes called tools or utilities. which
           help the user compose prose (word processors). or
           manipulate fiqures (spread sheets). or retrieve               ....~ !.


           information (data bases), or communicate (electronic
           mail), or create illustrations (qraphics).
       3)  There are proqrammes that tutor students in aspects of
           the content of the curriculum - mathematics, science.
           qeoqraphy. indeed. most subjects.
 Of the three uses. computer science has typically developed
 first. as the understandinq of computers has developed from
 relatively recent beqinninqs. Now the uses of utilities has
 become widespread. particularly as the schools adapt proqrammes
'that are used in business and industry.
Only recently has the use of curriculum-content proqrammes for
the self-tutorinq of individual students become more widely
understood. The further development of this potentially
powerful use of computers in education is beinq delayed by the
lack of standards among competing brands of computers,
especially with reqard to qraphics which are basic to much of
the educational process.
Aqy formal introduction of computers to the Jamaica school
system should attempt to keep in mind the principle of equity.
In addition. it is known that many students who do not do well
under standard methods of instruction. do very well indeed when
qiven the opportunity to use computers. Some reverse
discrimination on behalf of ·slower learninq' and handicapped
students would be in order!

                                                                              .,
                                                                         . :
                                                                         .. .
                                                                         - -"

·See end of chapter note "Computers in Education."



3-20
·. 




       Chapter 4
       THE SPECIAL CASE OF TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN THE
       CURRICULUM
       NOTE: See Volume II - "The Reform of Technical/Vocational
       Education in Jamaica - Analysis and Recommendations" for the
       in-depth study on which this Chapter is based.
       In common with many countries around the world, Jamaica has
       been providing pre-vocational education to 12 to IS year old
       students in the curriculum of the secondary schools. There is
       now a realization, worldwide, that the effort of the past 20
       years has not produced the hoped-for results. A new pattern
       must be developed.
       Currently in Jamaica, the pre-vocational components of
       Grades 7,8 and 9 are grouped under five headings: Agriculture,
       Art and Crafts, Business Education, Home Economics and
       Industrial Arts. Substantial investment has been made in
       teacher training, workshop~ and equipment.
       This study is proposing a most significant change in the Grade
       7-9 component of the technical vocational curriculum; that
       change being the consolidation of the technical vocational
       curriculum into two subject areas for timetabling - Technology
       Studies and Personal/Family Studies. The rationale for this
       recommendation is based primarily on the fact that technical
       vocational education at the secondary level has far outgrown
       its capacity to provide effective education and training. As a
       result, secondary vocational education represents an
       unful£illed promise - in terms of its pivotal role in the
       national human resource developme,nt strategy, and in terms of
       its ability to provide a proper educational foundation for
       daily living.
       This situation has occurred for a variety of reasons. and they
       can all be subsumed under two key factors: the overexpansion
       of the curriculum; and the significant" shortage of resources:
       financial. human and material. ~otwithstanding, the issue at
       this junction is how should the- s i tua tion be amended. Even
       with a,massive inflow of resources. the situation is not likely
       to make any significant change for the better, if programming
       is continued at the present level. There are just too many
       structural defects. To attend to one without attending to the
       other will lead to failure; and to attend to all at the same
       time may cause such a level of confusion and disorientation. it




                                                                   4-1 

                                                                   .
                                                                        ;
                                                                                .,

                                                                       -~

                                                                        -.
too will be doomed to fail. It seems that the prudent response
is to cut back on the level of proqramminq (number of courses 
        ,'""""!

                                                                                 I

offered) and to build a redu~ed but vibrant delivery system                     )
which could be effectively supported and maintained in order to        "

enhance and preserve quality. 

                                                                       -.
                                                                        ""
It is recommended that the srecialized skill traininq that is           .. 

the first-l£vel basis for te~hnical education should beqin in 

Grades 10 and 11. Students who are 15. 16, and 17 years of aqe          .. '1
                                                                                 :

have a better idea of their career interes~s, are more capable 

of handlinq the equipment in the vocational subjects, and are 

mature enouqh to understand the links between practical work
and theory.
                                                                       .-<''''1;
                                                                                 .

                                                                            "


It is this last point that is crucial to technical education in
the last decade of the twentieth century_ T~e skills of the
work force must beat higher technical levels than formerly, if
countries are to compete in international markets. Workers
must know somethinq of the "why" as well as the "what" and
"how" of the work they are performinq, whether it is a
secretary usinq a word processor instead of a typewriter, a
farmer aware of the chemical hazards in his pesticides, a hotel
employee makinq entries into the computer work station in the
kitchen or an employer who must be able to use spreadsheets to
handle the complex variables of planninq and manaqinq a company_
Paradoxically, as specialization becomes more necessary to deal
with new knowledqe, inteqrated knowledqe also becomes more
necessary_ Both the worker and the manaqer who know their
speciality in detail, and who also know somethinq of the wider
relationships of their speciality. are the people who are
already most in demand and most useful in the modern workinq
world.                                                                          .,
                                                                                 i

                                                                        .... .J
For technical education, this means that hiqher levels of
academic education must accompany technical traininq, in order
that theory and practice may be understood as complementary and
not as opposite ends of a spectrum.
1.0   THE PROBLEMS WITH PRE-VOCATIONAL EDUCATION                                ",




Diversifyinq the secondary school curriculum to include
prevocational subjects has been an educational policy that has
been promoted viqorously, by developinq countries and by
                                                                       :...,·.".
international aqencies, for the past twenty years. It was felt
that the advantaqes would be:
        wider access to secondary schools by less privileqed            _,f

        socio-economic qroups (better equity)
        better aChievement in both pre-vocational and academic
        subjects by all students (internal efficiency)

4-2
        better employment opportunities for students when
        equipped with a combination of academic and
        pre-vocational skills (external efficiency)
        greater awareness and more def~nite ideas concerning
        employment and the world of work by students

A considerable body of evidence has been accumulated in the
past few years concerning pre-vocational (diversified) and
vocational programmes. The evidence does not support the
potential advantages listed above. The following has been
learned:

        With very few exceptions, the general quality of
        education has not improved; and where improvements
        occurred, they were qualified and uneven, mainly
        because of a shortage of qualified teachers, of books,
        materials and equipment, particularly consumable
        materials.

        Employment opportunities had unsatisfactory outcomes.
        Graduates of pre-vocational and vocational programs do
        no better in the labour market than graduates of other
        kinds of programmes. Employers commonly express
        dissatisfaction with the first.

        There was no empirical evidence of student attitude
        change towards labour, and in the majority of cases,
        students still preferred academic to vocational
        training.

        Ser~ous questions are being asked about the comparative
        cost-effectiveness of a diversified versus an academic
        secondary school curriculum because of the large
        capital and recurrent expenditures for pre-vocational
        facilities compared to the relatively low earnings of
        graduates.

The foregoing statements are based on the followin9 reports:
   Wadi Haddad, "Diversified Secondary Curriculum Projects:         A
   Review of World Bank Experience 1963-l979", Report EDT
   57. World Bank:   1987

   George Psacharopoulos, "Curriculum Diversification,
   Cognitive Achievement and Economic Performance: Evidence
   from Columbia and Tanzania", Report EDT 80, World Bank;
   1987




                                                            4-3 

In addition. there are other publications appearing now 

discussing the issue and raising similar questions.   For 

example: 


         "Vocationalizing Education:   An International 

         Perspective" edited by Lauglo and Lillis. Un. of Lond .·        -    ,

         Instit. of Ed .· Pergamon Press. England. 1988. 


        "Towards a New Industrial America". by Berger et al.         .....'":t
                                                                         -  I
                                                                             ,
        Mass. Instit. of Tech .· Scientific American. June. 1989.            ,
                                                                         '. >
                                                                         -.1



1.2   A COMMON CURRICULUM AND TECHNOLOGY STUDIES                     ".~




A common curriculum for Grades 7-9 as proposed in this report 

is an attempt to consolidate rather than diversify subjects. 

The technical/vocational subject areas must be subjected to 

the same process in order to manage the continuing expansion of 

kn?wle~ge that is affecting education everywhere. 


Technology Studies is a key component of a common curriculum
                                                                     "       .
                                                                             '.

because it pulls together much of the knowledge and some of the
skill development in the original 5 subject areas of tech/voc        -..      ~ 



education in Jamaica. and gives them a conceptual focus.   That
focus is the application and practice of scientific. social as 

well as natural. principles and processes in everyday life. 

The focus is on learning. more than training. 


In Chapter 3 it was asserted that a common curriculum should 

provide students with a basic education and the means for 

lifelong learning.  A basic education then is not skill 

training for immediate entry into the job market. Various 

analyses in recent years have confirmed that employers and 

parents recognize this.  The approach recommended for 

Technology Studies relates well to other curricular areas such 
     .       ,
                                                                    .. J
as science. mathematics. social studies. and should enhance
integrated studies as a teaching method.                            .. ,
                                                                       ,


Most importantly. Jamaica must participate and compete in a
 scientific and technological world.   The people need to have a
-solid foundation on which to build more sophisticated knowledge     "   ...
 and skills related to modern computers. machinery and              .... i
 equipment ·. and to complex systems. techniques and procedures.
 The learning of vocat~onal skills should take place in
 vocational training institutions. in no case before a solid
 base of basic skills has been acquired by the individual.          .
                                                                    " 

 including an awareness of the technical aspects of society.

                                                                    ......
                                                                         .




                                                                         -    ,
                                                                     .-~     ...




4-4
·
. 


        2.0   OPTIONS
        The foregoing concerns - the need to consolidate the diverse
        skill areas, to widen and deepen their content. and to
        emphasize science and technology in the common curriculum 
        lead to the follo~ing kinds of choices.

        Three options are suggested:

        Option 1 - Maintain the same skill areas currently used, but
        broaden their content, upgrade their knowledge base, and
        organize them more coherently.
                    Industrial Arts. including woodwork. metalwork and
                   technical drawing;
                   Art and crafts;
                   Agriculture;
                   Home Economics;
                   Business Education.

        Option 2 - Reduce the number of subjects according to current
        priorities and values. broaden and upgrade their content, and
        organize them more coherently.

                 Industrial Arts          Industrial Arts
                 Home Economics    OR     Business Education
                 Agriculture              Home Economics

        Option 3 - Reorganize and upgrade the entire range of skill
        areas, upgrade the content thus derived and relate it to other
        subject areas in the curriculum through a theme approach such
        as Technology Studies.

        Because of the priority need for science and technology in the
        educational opportunities offered to young people. the need to
        educate and not to train children aged 12 to 15, and the
        absolute need to consolidate the excessive amounts of subjects
        matter. the third option is recommended.

        3.0   TECHNOLOGY STUDIES

    Definition - Technology Studies is the application and practice
    of scientific principles and processes in everyday life.

    The focus should be on how people develop and use
    organizational procedures, psycho-motor skills. tools,
    machines. rou~ines and communica~ion patterns to adapt and
    control their physical. biological and social environment.   It
    should be an inclusive perspective which describes, explains
    and illustrates how people solve everyday problems.




                                                                   4-5 

                                                                  .. 


                                                                         ,-~      .
Technology Studies must be interdisciplinary in that it should
draw principles and examples from physics, chemistry, bioloqy,
agriculture. electricity. mechanics. drawing, metalwork.
woodwork. and related areas. It should~lso draw on the social
sciences in a major way, to explain and illustrate how people
organize themselves for solving technical problems.
As a curriculum innovation, Technology Studies should abstract
ideas from the tech/voc subjects now taught in Grades 7, 8 and
9 and organize the concepts into themes. Themes are relatively
easy to identify since the subjects chosen should be the
development, understanding and appreciation of scientific
applications in everyday life.  (see Appendix A - Suggestions
for Curriculum Guides in the Seven Subjects of a Core
Curriculum)
3.2   CONTENT
This study does not have the mandate to prescribe conte~t fot
curriculum guides, nor should it. The section of Chapter 3
that deals with curriculum guide development describes one
possible administrative pattern for developing guides, but the
writing of guides should be done by educators in the system.
The following 4 tables explain the thinking behind the idea of
Technology Studies.
Table 4.1 outlines how Technology Studies relates to the
broader framework of technology and technical/vocational
education through Grades 1 to 13+.
Table 4.2 shows a conceptual organization for Technology
Studies by levels of instruction, description of content. and
learning activities.
Table 4.3 is a matrix that relates topics of Technology Studies
with relevant components of any curriculum.                              ';1
                                                                         ".:1
Table 4.4 is an illustrative list of subjects'within the area,
with more specific content suggestions.                                  ,
                                                                             L~

                                                                                 '. 

4.0   IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
There are three general issues which should be addressed if
Technology Studies is to be a feasible subject of study.




                                                                         -...

                                                                             .




4-6
                                                         TABLE 4.1



                                        A PROPOSED STRUCTURE FOR THE 

                                     ORGANIZATION OF TECHNICAL VOCATIONAL 

                                             EDUCATION IN JAMAICA 





                                                                                                     JIDClJAGAS
                      1-6                          7-9                    10-13

             Basic foundation In           Exploration of         - Basic technical and        College of Agriculture
             the key elements of           technology               vocallonal education.   ~~~~ 


             technology-
                  "Technology            - Education with                                      I
                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                        U.W.I.
             Science and technology        Studies": the            proper academic 

             themes In the general 
       study of                 foundation 

             curriculum guides of 
        technology                                                  C.A.S.T.
             science and social studies    In daily life                                                                I
                                                                            APPRENTICESHIP
                                                             r~




                                                                             Special Training Centres


                                                                                  H.E.A.R.T.
       -~~



                                            ----




             Supplementary
             learning                     Evening School - Remedial, Academic and TechnlcalNocalional 

             °PJXlrlunilies 





,bo
 I
-..J                                                                                                                        COOK-C4-00f
                                                                                                                        .. 



                                                             Table 4.2
                              TECHNOLOGY STUDle.S
               A FRAMEWORK FOF\ THE STUDY OF TECHNOLOGY IN DAILY LIFE

      Levels of                                                                                                                ....- .i
      Instructional                      Description of Content                       Fxamples
      Topics                                                                                                                   -,~
                                                                                                                               ,         {
                                                                                                                               -_   .
      Introduction to
      TechnOlogy
                                -   Meaning of the term teChnology.            ·   Simple definitions.
                                                                                                                                         ~
                                                                                                                                         I


                                -   Students' experiences Of teChnology in     ·   Use Of radios, calculators. cars.
                                    daily lite.                                    stoves etc.
                                - Attitudes toward teChnology - good.
                                  bad.
                                                                               ·   TeChnology is good · it helps us
                                                                                   to do things better; technology is
                                                                                   bad - it makes us lazy and de
                                                                                   pendent.                                    . ,
                                                                                                                               .'~
                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                               ..
                                -   Effects Of TechnOlogy.                     -   Advancement; pollution.                     ,   ,f
                                                                                                                                     "
                                                                                                                                         ;




      TechnOlogy as an ex       .   Humans' limited range of abilities and     0
                                                                                   Use Of handS to make things:
      tension of human capa         the role Of technOlogy to amplify human        lathe.
      bilities.                     capabilities.                                  Use of feet for transportation:
                                                                                   Auto.
                                                                                   Use Of eyes to see: telescope.
                                                                                                                               ;"""
                                                                                   Use Of intellect to think, analyze               .1
                                                                                                                                ... ;
                                                                                   and solve problems.                               ,
                                -   Use Of technology by students to ex
                                                                                   Use Of computer.                            '", J
                                    tend their capabilities: examples from
                                    school and at home.                        0
                                                                                   Use Of VOice to speak: amplifiers.
                                                                                   telephones etc.
                                                                                   Use Of Signs to communicate:
                                                                                   drafting.
                                                                                   Use Of physical capabilities to
                                                                                   manipulate our environment to
                                                                                   meet our needs: in use Of tech
                                                                                   nologies to build roads. bridges.
                                                                                   dams etc.
      Making sense of the
      technology in our anvi
                                -   Developing a system for ordering or la
                                    baling teChnology, eg.. mechanical
                                                                               -   MeChanical technology: use Of
                                                                                   mechanical principles in accom
      ronment: categorization       technology, electrical technology, etc.        pUShing work, ego use of ma-
      of technology.                levels Of technological sophistication:        Chines for processing.
                                    low level technology - use Of one scian    0
                                                                                   Low level teChnology: work ac·
                                    tific principle to accomplish work; high
                                                                                   complished through the principle
                                    level technology· use of a variety of          Of levers or vacuum. action; high
                                    scientific principles and a compendium
                                                                                   level teChnology - application Of
                                    Of technologies.                               meChanical, electronic, hydrau
                                                                                   lic. pneumatic principles.                  ~    . .J


      The Language of
      Technology
                                - The typesOfand principles of drafting as
                                  a means communication. Under·
                                                                               ·   Unes. symbols. perspectives in
                                                                                   mechanical, electrical and survey
                                    standing such a language is important.         drawings.
                                    Using simple applications, drawing.
                                    reading and interpreting.
      The Driving Force Of      -   The role Of power and energy in apply      ·   Study of the generation of power:
                                                                                   hydroelectricity; dry cells; solar
      Technology                    ing teChnology. Sources Of power and
                                    energy. The creation of energy. Differ         power; the combustion engine
                                    ences in the application of energy.            etc,




4-8
..



                                                Table 4.2 (Cont'd)
                             TECHNOLOGY STUDIES
              A FRAMEWORK FOR THE STUDY OF TEC_HNOLOGY IN DAILY UFE

  Levels of
  Instructional                         Description of Content                        Examples
  Topics
      Application of Technol
      ogy: form and function
                               -   examine simple Items in our technolog.
                                   ical environment to assess how they are
                                                                               -   Items we use such as tele
                                                                                   phones. chairs, desks. calcula
                                   used and to examine how design and              tors etc and assess form and
                                   construction facilitate use. Appropriate        function.
                                   practical exercises will be developed 
                                   making simple models or take home
                                   projects to assess form and function of
                                   some object.

  Exploring TechnOlogy:
  How things work - basic
                               -   Examine the scientific principles under
                                   lying the operation of sample objects in
                                                                               -   How a variety of items work.
                                                                                   identify the essential pans which
  principles                       our technological environment. Stu              contribute to the functioning of
                                   dents can be introduced to a range of           these items. Sample items may
                                   scientific principles underlying the            include heating irons. vacuum
                                   function of technology and then given           cleaners. etc.
                                   Objects to deduce how they work. Use
                                   of method in investigation and sketch
                                   ing in reporting is encouraged.

  Exploring TechnOlogy:
  How things function in
                               -   Examine how Items are ~put together"
                                   with practice in assembling and disas
                                                                               -   Assembly of a variety of objects
                                                                                   with and without instructions. As-
  assembly                         sembling objects. Read drawings and             semble chairs and tables, exer
                                   technical illustrations, study methods of       clse machines, toys, simple ma
                                   joining, the concept of tolerance and           chines and power tools, etc.
                                   the notion of safety among others. Prac
                                   tice making joints to specific tolerances
                                   or using measuring toolS like the mi
                                   crometer.

  Exploring Technology         -   Principles of maintenance at conceptu       -   Examine and replace a variety of
  Principles Of Mainte             al and practical levels. Areas of mainte        items: wom brakes; defective
  nance                            nance -moving joints. rubber pans. etc;         bearings; wom or broken type
                                   threats to effective functioning -dust,         writer keys; defective plugs; bro
                                   wear, undue force, heat, corrosion etc.         ken heater elements etc.
                                   Disassembly Of objects to observe the
                                   effect Of use; leam and apply mainte
                                   nance specifications.

  Exploring Technology         -   Identify some function that needs to be     -   Design and build a machine for
  Design and Construe-             performed or some aspect of the envi            "shelling peas" or for safely
  tion                             ronment which needs to be controlled            transporting eggs.
                                   for personal or public convenience. De
                                   sign .and build simple Objects. Time
                                   given to use facilities wherever they ex
                                                                                                       .
                                   ist.


  Exploring Technology 
  Organization for Pro-
                               -   Understand the techniques for applying
                                   and managing technology. Group proj
                                                                               -   Mass production of a simple obo .
                                                                                   ject for sale includes research,
  duction                          ects such as mass prodUCtion, model             design and development; pro
                                   office, banking etc can be set up in the        duction; marketing and sales; fi
                                   school. Understand the context within           nancing; management etc.
                                   which technology is applied.




                                                                                                           4-9 

....
 I
t-'
o


                                                                                                                          Table 4.3 



                                                                                                             TECHNOLOGY Sl1..!DIES 



                 AREAS OF
                 INTERFACE WITH                                                                                                  RELEVANCE OF CURRICULUM CONTEXT
                 TECHNOLOGY
                                            11111010   Techn%gy-     calegodlatlon                    The language        TlleOrMng            Technology-     Tilehnology-   TechnoIogy-         Technology-    Technology-     Technology
                                        Techno~        eldendlng     01 Technology                    01 Technology       fOlcaol          'olin and           Bask:          Auemb4y             Malnlenance    DesIgn &        Organization
                                                       human                                                              Technology       IuIlClIon           prlnclplllll                                      Cons!.          to! Production
                                                       capability
            -
        Technological
        Uleracy-Ievel
        01 comfort
        dealing with
        the lech.
                                            X               X                X                                                                                                                                                      X
        world
            -.                                                                           ------   ----------------    -


        Consumerlsm
        purchasing
        decisions
         ..
                                -
                                                                                                           X                 X                                                                                                      X
        Service-maintaining
        elemenlso'
        lechnology
            ---~--
                                                                                                           X                 X                                      X                                 X
        Assembly-
        putting things
        logelher
       ..   _-----                  I                                  ...........   _            .
                                                                                                           X                 X                                      X            X                    X                              X            I


        Troubleshooting
        and repair                                                                                         X                 X                                      X                     ,           X
            Modily/Extendl
            Expand
            facilities
                                                                                                           X                 X                                      X                                                X
        Oeslgn and
            Conslruction                                                                                   X                 X                                      X            X                                   X               X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COOK-CHI03




                             , '1
                                        :. '-                       '-,.,.
                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                       ..;.)          /,1 iJ
                                                                                                                                                     ....-,-           I ..       't..-       :
                                                                                                                                                                                                          --.,      '--..~-,,;        .,-~<]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r'O'; )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.:,            C...:J 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                 Table 4.4
         AN EXAMPLE OF THE ANALYSIS OF CONTENT AREAS
       TO BE INCORPORATED IN A CONSOLIDATED TECHNOLOGY
                     STUDIES CURRICULUM

                     CONTENT INCORPORATED IN TECHNOLOGY STUDIES
SUBJECT AREA                    (EXAMPLES. ONLY)

BUSINESS EDUCATION   -   Electronic calculations - practice in accounting.
                     -
                     -
                         Personal typewriting.
                         Measurement - speed and accuracy (use of electric
                         calculator).
ART AND CRAFT        -   Fundamentals of design.
                     -   Toymaking.
                     -   Measurement for Art and Craft.
                     -   Identification and use of printing materials.
HOME ECONOMICS       -   Technology in the kitchen.
                     -   The sewing machine.
                     -   Measurement in Home Economics.
                     -   Technology in the home (general).
AGRICULTURE          -   Technology on the farm.
                     -   The chemistry of fertilizers.
                     -   Measurement in Agriculture.
4.1 Developing The Curriculum Guide - The selection of content
must be carefully done. The tables above are only suggestions.     r",\
                                                                   - I
Specific culturally relevant topics must be chosen. A              ~1
meaningful sequence from Grade 7 through to 9 would be useful
perhaps based on complexity and relevance to studies being         e",,
carried on by students in science and social studies. The idea        -


of ~rerequisites related to certification or admission to Grade
10 courses should not be introduced in this cycle. although
care should be taken to plan for relevant experiences for all         ~,)


students. some of whom will choose specialized                         1
                                                                   '. .;
                                                                              \


technical/vocational subjects in the second cycle of secondary
school; however. some prerequisites cannot be avoided (e.g .·
CXC demands some).
Special attention should be given to the design of curriculum
modules that give general support to the technical studies that
will be carried on in Grades 10 and 11.
4.2 Equipment, Facilities and Materials - There will be little
need for new equipment and facilities for Technology Studies.
Much of the existing specialized equipment at the Grades 7, B
and 9 level should be relocated to the senior secondary level.     ."",
Considerable planning will be necessary to effect this change.            -   ,
There will be a need however, for materials such as a simple
wiring diagram to illustrate basic principles of electricity,
and the wiring of the school ieself can be used to illustrate
the application of the principles. Tools and machines such as
irons, toasters or other appliances can be used for
disassembly, assembly, and repair to illustrate basic
principles of conduction and resistance of electricity; and
also of the processes of design, materials manufacture,
assembly, and marketing that constitute the technological
systems surrounding relatively simple appliances.
 4.3 Teachers - Because Technology Studies is an innovation.
 the training and supervision of teachers will have to be
 carefully managed. Territorial Education Officers will need to
 have in-service sessions about the intent and content of the
 subject, in order that they may help teachers and teacher                    .
-college instructors to implement the curriculum guide             .~ ,




 effectively.
4.4 Further implications for implementation are discussed in 

various sections of the Supplement. 




                                                                              .
                                                                  ,       ~,:.1




                                                                  '"""
                                                                      · 'l:




4-12
Chapter 5
ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES AND THEIR   COST~


5.1    Overview
The main objective of the current reform of the Jamaican
secondary education system is the definition of a common
curriculum for all the students of Grades 7-9. A common
curriculum is not an end in itself. however. The aim of the
reform is an educational system in which all students complete
nine years of schooling, and finish Grade 9 with basic
literacy, numeracy, and analytical skills: in which all
students have equal access to opportunities for further
education or training; and in which all students develop the
capacity to contribute as productive citizens to the further
development of Jamaica.
The accomplishment of these objectives, therefore, implies at
least three major policy changes in the Jamaican secondary
school system:
      1)  The postponement of selection within the system until
          after the completion of Grade 9, so that all children
          are provided equal opportunities to complete the new
          curriculum;
      2)  The expansion of enrollments in Grades 7-9, until all
          children remain in school through the end of Grade 9;
          and
      3)  Improvements in the quality of education provided to
          all students in Grades 7-9, but especially those who
          now attend all-age schools.
         A related condition for the reform of secondary
         education is improvement in the quality of primary
         schools.
These objectives will not be achieved immediately: policies to
accomplish them will have to be phased in over a number of
years. Reorganizing the educational system to achieve these
goals will also exact significant costs. not only in money but
also in administrative disruption and political opposition.
There are a number of different ways in which tQey might be
approached in the short and medium term, each of which will
require different commitments of time, money, and political
resources. In this chapter, five main policy alternatives are
identified, and their costs and some of the barriers to


                                                              5-1
                                                                          -J
                                                                   ~I




                                                                   ;."   .~



implementation outlined.  These five alternatives to not
exhaust the possibilities for reform in secondary education.
nor are they necessarily mutually exclusive. Any policy that
is finally adopted by the Ministry of Education will almost
certainly represent some combination of approaches.  The
alternatives presented here do. however. provide an
introduction to the kinds of choices that educational policy       ;;      .
makers will face as they seek to rationalize Jamaica's
secondary school system.                                                      j
                                                                       ·"'i


II.   PROJECTING THE COSTS OF REFORM

It should be noted at the outset that the value of cost            ... 1
analysis in education as in any other field depends crucially
on two factors:    the quality of the data on which the analysis
is based and the realism of the assumptions that guide the             -"
                                                                              j
analysis.   The quality of the available data in this case
should not be exaggerated.    The ongoing Unit Costs Study has
produced some useful estimates of recurrent costs in different     .' ,
                                                                         . ,
parts of the educational system.    These are the best estimates
that can be produced with the data now available. but they are
fftr from precise. and significant gaps in the data persist.
Fugitive data on capital costs have been collected from various
sources. including" documentation from past education projects.
Capital investments by the Ministry of Education have been
sporadic in the past decade. however. and many of the data are
out of date or affected by idiosyncratic circumstances. or
both.   Data on enrollments in primary and secondary schools
remain suspect. and estimates of drop-out and repetition rates
vary widely depending on the assumptions chosen by the
analyst.   Data from the school mappingexe~cise that should
provide information on the present state of educational
facilities in Jamaica have been PQblished for only a single
parish. though the exercise has been completed in three other
parishes and is nearly done in the others.    As a result of
these and other similar circumstances. the projections of costs
that are presented below are subject to a potentially large              -,
                                                                   .....,
                                                                   .

degree of error. and should not be accorded an undue degree of
precision or reliability.

An example will illustrate the scope of th~ problem.  One major
component of the cost of comprehensive secondary education
reform will be the cost of new school places for students who
now drop out of school before completing Grade 9.  Estimates of
this cost depend not only on the cost of school places but also
on the number of dropouts who might in the future remain in
school.  It is widely assumed that about 85 percent of each age
cohort now complete Grade 9. but estimates range as low as 70
percent. depending on the data source and the assumptions
chosen by the analyst.  Projecting the cost of enrollment




5-2
expansion on the basis of conventional assumptions about
drop-out rates thus means that the estimates produced-may be as
much as 12 percent too high or 20 percent too low. depending on
the real (but unknown) drop-out rate. The Planning and
Statistics Units within the Ministry are making rapid progress
in their efforts to increase the quality and timeliness of the
data they coll~ct and analyze. but for now the problem remains.
The uncertainty that necessarily accompanie~ these (and other)
cost projections advises a great deal of caution in their
interpretation. Relatively small shifts in assumptions or
errors in the underlying data can produce large changes in
projected costs. Iri the analyses that follow. there is an
attempt to be explicit about the assumptions that guide the
analysis. and the realism of these should be very carefully
considered in any use of the cost projections that are
presented in this report.
III.   POLICY OPTIONS
Option A - Incremental Improvement in the Present System
This first alternative proposes some relatively small but
critically important changes in the character and quality of
education provided in Jamaican secondary schools. within the
context of the prevailing structure of the secondary education
system. The irreducible core~f the reforms now under
discussion is the definition and adoption of a common
curriculum for students in Grades 7-9. This strategy calls fOT
the development of such a curriculum. and for the provision of
the minimal resources necessary to ensure its implementation in
the schools. These would include a major expansion of the
in-service training capabilities ~nd efforts of the Ministry of
Education. to acquaint secondary school teachers with the new
curriculum: the implementation of the National Assessment
Program. to renew the pedagogical focus on the formal
curriculum in primary schools; the extension of the TextbooK
Rental Scheme to students in all-age schools; the establishment
of Regional Education Offices and the appointment of
Territorial Education Officers. to monitor the adoption of the
new curriculum in .he schools and to provide additional
in-service assistance to teachers and administra~ors: and
distance education facilities for. children in remote areas who
lack access to secondary schools~ Direct consideration of the
underlying issues of selection and equalization is otherwise
postponed under this alternative.




                                                           5-3 

                                                                   ....   ,


Projects addressing many of these issues are already underway.
The NAP for Grade 6 is nearly ready for implementation. and the
Overseas Development Agency is committed to a project that will
extend the textbook rental scheme to all remaining secondary
schools. including Grades 7-9 in the all-age schools. The
Ministry of Education is committed to the reestablishment of
Re1ional Education Offices. and recognizes the importance of.
Territorial Education Officers. The need for a new common
curriculum for Grades 7-9 is also acknowledged, and preliminary
planning is underway under the auspices of two IBRD teams.
With the implementation of these ongoing projects. the
development of projects to address Ministry commitments in
other areas (e.g. curriculum. TEO's). and the expansion of the      . '~!
Ministry's capabilities in distance education, the minimum        ,i




conditions for improvement in secondary education will have
been satisfied.
The advantage of this strategy is that it can probably be
achieved in a relatively short period of time. with a
relatively small commitment of new resources. The obvious
disadvantage is that it addresses the policy changes needed to
accomplish the larger objectives of secondary education reform
indirectly if at all. The highly stratified distribution of        ·      >
educational resources and opportunities in Jamaican secondary          ..,
schools ~s left intact. and the Common Entrance Examination (or
its functional equivalent) remains in place at the end of Grade
6. Current rates of drop-out can. therefore, be expected to
persist indefinitely. and universal enrollment in Grades 7-9
will not soon be achieved. This strategy can be expected to
produce some incremental improvements in the performance of the
present system. but no major changes in the system with respect
either to equity or to efficiency.
Estimates of the costs oi reform under this alternative are
                                                                   ,--,
presented in Table S.l. They include the costs of employing.
training. and maintaining 100 Territorial Education Officers.
the cost of developing the Ministry'S capacity to produce and
disseminate distance education materials. the cost of a massive
in-service training effort for all teachers in secondary
schools to familiarize them with the new curriculum, and the
cost of increasing the capitarization of the Textbook Rental      ..... !
Scheme. with sufficient allowance made for administrative
expense and contingencies. The cost of developing and
implementing and Grade 9 NAP is also included ..
In the view of the study team these costs must be viewed as
minimal. Resources to cover many of them have already been
appropriated, either by the Ministry or by donors, and
resources to cover the balance must be found .if real
improvements are t~ take place in Jamaican secondary schools.



5-4
·. 


                                   TABLE 5.1
                        ESTIMATED COST OF ALTERNATIVE A:
                INCREMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS IN SECONDARY EDUCATION
                                            REFORM MEASURES COSTS

                                                                                  US$      J$
                                                                                 (000)    (000)

       1.




            Teachers' In-service Training:




            Supplies and Materials:

       3.   National Assessment .... r",..r"" .....
            Development of Grade 9 NAP:                                          909.1   5,000




            Production and Dissemination of Materials:




            In-service Training for Teachers:

                                                 ital Cost:
                                           Recurrent Cost:

       ·See appendix at end of this chapter for definitions, assumptions, etc.




                                                                                          5-5 

The incremental recurrent cost of implementing changes in each
of these areas is on the order of J$S million per year. which       'l
                                                                    ': I
represents a budgetary burden that it should be possible to         ~J
bear under all but the bleakest economic circumstances. The
other four reform options discussed below assume at least this
level of expenditure. plus additional costs entailed by more
wide-ranging changes in the secondary school system.   .
It should be noted that even this minimal reform program will
not be immune to political opposition. For example, the
definition of a common curriculum for all students in Grades
7-9 may be perceived as a "watering down" of the traditional
high school curriculum. The social. political. and emotional
significance of the Common Entrance Examination means that any
eff ort to alter its conte.nt or function. much less abol ish it.
is likely to arouse great controversy. The political obstacles
facing more comprehensive approaches to secondary school reform
will be even greater.
Option B - Expansion of High School Enrollments
The focus of this strategy is on expanding enrollments in
secondary and vocational high schools. which have traditionally
been the goal of most students within the Jamaican educational
system. Two principal means would be adopted to achieve this
end: raising enrollments in traditional high schools through        ·
                                                                    ·
                                                                        -,,
increasing pupil/teacher ratios and introducing the shift
system: and continuing the conversion of new secondary schools
to high schools. (With the consolidation of workshops and
vocational training facilities some might also be converted to
technical high schools.) Enrollments in the remaining new
secondary schools might be raised simultaneously, by similar
means, to draw students in Grades 7-9 out of all-age schools.
Over time. therefore. this strategy would aim to bring about a
steady increase in enrollments in the secondary schools with
the best facilities and teachers. and a corresponding decline
in enrollments in those with fewer resources.
The main advantage of this strategy as against the others is
that it acknowledges the traditional aspirations of Jamaican
households. by providing more students with the opportunity to
attend high schools. Investment and new recurrent expenditure
are focused on those schools that students want to attend. _
rather than those that they are obliged to attend. Subsidiary            ;
advantages include the fact that selectivity within the             ·-'
educational system will be de-emphasized as larger numbers of
students obtain admission to high schools. While the Common
Entrance Examination may continue to determine access to the
best schools. the numbers of examination "failures" will
steadily decline. In addition, a rising percentage of students
in secondary schools will receive the full -benef i ts of the new
common curriculum.
There are two main disadvantages to this strategy. First,
expansion of enrollments in high schools will almost inevitably
be accompanied by some deterioration in the quality of
education provided. The available evidence_on the effects of
increased pupil/teacher ratios or shiCt systems on student
achievement is equivocal, but no one argues that the effect is
positive. In any case, the average quality of "high schools"
will be reduced as more new secon1ary schools are converted.
The lion's share of the J$lO million thus far allocated for the
ongoing conversion of eleven new secondary schools has been
used for the physical rehabilitation of the schools, while a
smaller amount has been used to provide four weeks of
in-service training to teachers and administrators. No funds
have yet been allocated for the expansion and improvement of
the science labs, libraries, and other facilities that would
make these schools "high schools" in more than name.
Second, for the foreseeable future some presumably large
residual group of students will be left in all-age schools,
still without access to "real" secondary education. Under the
assumptions that underlie the cost projections presented in
Table 5.2, more than 37,000 students will be left in all-age
schools. Because of the geographical distribution of secondary
and high schools and the costs associated with "high school"
attendance, these students are likely to be drawn .
disproportionately from poor and rural households. Reforms
that provide additional advantages to the best schools at the
effective expense of the worst may well increase the already
enormous inequalities in the secondary school system. They may
also increase the disaffection of the students who remain in
all-age schools, and of their teachers. An offsetting effect
might be a decline in pupil/teacher ratios resulting from the
enrollment of students in high rather than all-age schools.
Nevertheless, the drop-out rate could rise, and net enrollment
rates fall, as a result of "reform" along these lines.
Estimates of the costs of reform under this alternative are
presented in Table 5.2. The capital costs entailed by this
strategy are quite low in the short run, because this approach
to reform relies on making more intensive use of existing
facilities rather than expanding or constructing additional
ones. These costs will rise in the future, however, as target
levels of school quality in secondary and high schools are
raised. Incremental recurrent costs are high, because of the
need for rela ti vely large nu.mbers of new teachers as
enrollments in high schools are increased. The cost of
potential deterioration in the quality of instruction provided
in traditional or newly converted high schools should also be
noted. Some indicators of declining quality might include
rising rates of drop-out. repetition, or examination failure.



                                                          5-7 

                                                                                                                  :      ,
                                                TABLE 5.2                                                         -~    ..'
                              ESTIMATED COSTS OF ALTERNATIVE B:
                         EXPANDING HIGH SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS*

                                                                                                                  · ,
                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                  ,;    ,
      FORM          MEASURES



         Convert 28 NSS to High Schools and add second shift
         Equipment and
                                                                                                                  ·     . I




                                                                                             127.3
         Add new teachers:                                                          937.!l           I   6447.9
                                                                                                                  ·..    1
                                                                                                                         ~

         Convert 5 NSS to Technical Schools:
         Equipment and refurbishment:                                                                             .~"    ,1




         New specialist teachers:
         Increase Grade 7-9 enrollments by 60 percent in High Schools:
         Increase grants to $200:                                                   341.8
         Add vice principals:                                                                209.1
         Add new teachers:
         Add new second shift in 14 NSS:

                                                                                                                  :',1
                  teachers:
         Increase NSS grants to $200:
                                 Capital cost of reform:

                                                                                                                  ,     ,
         · See appendix at end of this chapter for definitions, assumptions, etc.




                                                                                                                  'yv.·"




5-8
·. 



   The benefits of this strategy in terms of student learning are
   uncertain, and depend u~on the relative weights of changes in
   the aChievement of students traditionally enrolled in high
   schools~ students newly enrolled in high schools, and students
   remaining in all-age schools. Achievement among the first and
   third groups might be expected to fall to some degree with
   these reforms, while achievement in the middle group might be
   expected t~ rise, but the relative magnitudes of these changes
   are impossible to predict.
   The budgetary savings to be achieved under this policy could be
   large: the marginal per student cost of raising pupil teacher
   ratios and adding second shifts in traditional high schools is
   likely to be significantly lower than the present average per
   pupil cost, as evidence from the recent study of unit costs
   suggests. Additional savings could be realized through the
   abolition of publicly supported boarding facilities for
   stud~nts in Grades 7-9, and especially so if these facilities
   can be converted to classroom or other uses. There does not
   appear to be much scope for generating new revenues from local
   communities under this policy, but income from fees could
   probably be increased in some schools.
   The formal conversion of new secondary to high schools could
   probably be accomplished fairly quickly, with sufficient
   external assistance to support physical rehabilitation and the
   provision of laboratories. libraries, and other facilities.
   Indeed, as has recently been demonstrated, it can be
   accomplished. Significant improvements in the quality of
   education provided in the new high schools (or protection of
   present quality standards in traditional high schools) will
   take considerably longer and will require more resources,
   however.
   Option'C - Improvement of All-Age Schools
   The priority under this policy is improvement in the quality of
   facilities and instruction provided in the all-age schools. in
   which more than 40 percent of students in Grades 7-9 are now
   enrolled. The aim is to inc~ease the resources available to
   the worst schools and the poorest students (who are often
   enrolled in the worst schools), with the ultimate objective of
   providing them with ed'ucational opportunities more nearly equal
   to those available to students in more favored schools. In the
   first instance this effort might develop along the lines now
   being pursued in St. Thomas Parish, where all-age schools are
   to be upgraded and consolidated, with some designated as junior
   high schools offering Grades 7-9 and others reverting to a
   status as primary schools offering Grades 1-6.




                                                              5-9 

Estimates of the costs of adopting this strategy are presented

in Table 5.3. The capital cost of reform is very high. because 

of the large quantities of resources that will be needed to 

refurbish. expand. and equip the all-age schools. The 

incremental recurrent cost is relatively low, however; the main 

component is the salaries of the new teachers needed to reduce 

the pupil/teacher ratio in these schools. 

  In addition to the minimal reform costs identified under the
  first strategy described above, the costs associated with this
  strategy include the cost of constructing or expanding
  "central" all-age schools and refurbishing "feeder" primary
  schools. As in the project now underway in St. Thomas. this
  will, in most cases, require identifying centrally located
  all-age schools and expanding and equipping them to serve as
  junior high-schools. with secondary departments offering Grades   .,
  7-9. In some areas. new schools may have to be constructed.
  Other all-age schools in the vicinity of the junior high
  schools will serve as primary "feeder" schools, offering Grades   .,
  1-6. It is unlikely that many new primary schools will have to
  be constructed, but many are in need of extensive
  refurbishing. If the St. Thomas project can serve as a guide
  to the capital cost of these improvements, iSland-wide reforms
  of this kind will require a lot of new resources. although it
  must be noted that those costs included hurricane damage.
- Insofar as schools in other parts of the island require less in
  the way of rehabilitation or equipment. however. the capital
  cost of reform will be reduced. The estimates of capital costs
  in Table 5.3 and Table 5.4 shOUld. therefore. be regarded as
  estimates of the maximum quantity of resources needed to carry
 out the proposed reforms.
Teachers who are now teaching Grade 7-9 in all-age schools are 

commonly trained as primary rather than secondary teachers. and 

so will require extensive in-service training to prepare them 

for effective teaching in junior high programmes. Most of 

these teachers have been trained as class rather than subject 

teachers. and many are not prepared to assume roles as subject 

specialists. These will require more extensive upgrading of 

their qualifications than can be accomplished in brief 

in-service courses. and so will have to be provided with 

longer-term training opportunities-. More generally. the first 

requirement for improving the quality of all-age schools and 

making them more nearly equal to high schools is a significant 

decrease in the pupil/teacher ratio. which means that reform 

will require large numbers of new teachers. Recruiting, 

training. and retaining these teachers will make reform along 

these lines very costly, especially in light of the present 

shortage of trained teachers and the prospect of rising rates 

of enrollment in Grades 7-9 as the quality of the all-age 

schools is improved. 



5-10
                                                                                     TABLE 5.3

                               ESTIMATED COSTS OF ALTERNATIVE C:
                           IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF ALL AGE SCHOOLS                                                                                           *
  REFORM MEASURES                                                                                                                                              ·COSTS
                                                                                                                                                    US$                              J$
                                                                                                                                                   ('000)                       ('000)
  1.              Convert "central" AAS to JHS
                  "Contract" estimate:                                                                                                        110.168.3                    605.925.5

  2.              Rehabilitate remaining AAS
                  "Contract" estimate:                                                                                                          54.183.9                   298.011

  3               Reduce PIT ratio in AAS to 30/1                                                                                                                            14.431

  4.              Reduce dropout rate in Grade 7-9 by 25 percent
                  "Contract" estimate:                                                                                                            3,420.3                     18,811
                  Additional teachers:                                                                                                                                          1.288

  5.              Increase grants in Grade 7-9 in AAS to J$1oo:                                                                                                                 4.850

  6.              Inservice to upgrade Grade 7-9 teachers:
                  Post-certificate course:                                                                                                         1,395.3                      7,673
                  Continuing inservice:                                                                                                               348.8                      1918
                                  Capital cost
                                                   "Contract" estimate:                                                                        169,167.8                  930..422
                                  Recurrent cost:                                                                                                  4,039.7                   22.218
  * See Appendix at end of this chapter for definitions. assumptions. etc.

~ ~~~~:"~ :,,",.-~~:.":::_.... #tt; .~. ~t'   .... :'.            .
                                                         --f;.-~:." ·-~tf~:1~':h~.-':; __ ;..,.
                                                                                        :         "!.: -:; ,:,;.:~~.':~~;-'~"'=--"'_.;,"'~"'~::~.... ;;:.~.;..r. ~:: ..:~·:;-.. ~t-~';":¥~~.:.:~r~·




                                                          ·





                                                                                                                                                                               5-11 

                                                                                                                ...         ':;




                                        TABLE 5.4 

                            ESTIMATED COST OF ALTERNATIVE D: 

                             CREATING JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS· 

   REFORM MEASURES                                                                      COST
                                                                                                                      \. .1
                                                                              US$               J$
                                                                              ('000)           ('000)

   1.      Convert 5 NSS to Technical High Schools

   2.      Reburish and equip new THS                                          ZTZT.3              15000

   3.      New specialist teachers for THS                                     1191.0                6550
   4.      Convert central AAS to JHS

           Contract estimate:                                           110168.3           605925
   5.      Rehabilitate remaining AAS
           Contract estimate:                                            54183.9           298011

   6.      Increase Grade 9 completion rate from 75 to 90 percent
           Contract estimate:                                            77774.5           427759
   7.      Standardize   prr ratio in JHS @ 30/1                               1107.9                6093
   8.      Standardize grants in JHS @ J$1OO/student                                                 3140
   9.      Standardize grants in SHS:                                           120.8                   664 

   10.     Post-certificate course for former AAS teachers:                    1395.3                7673 

           Continuing inservice for former AAS teachers:                        348.8                1918 

                            Capital cost                                                                              :::   '



                                Contract estimate:                     246241.3           1354327
                            Recurrent cost:                                    3339.4              18366

   * See Appendix at end of this chapter for definitions, assumptions. etc.




                                                                                                                      -' 





5-12
·. 


   There are some all-age schools in remote areas that lie beyond
   the reach of any rational program of school consolidation,
   because their students would have to travel too far to reach
   central schools. These schools will Lemain all-age schools
   offering Grades 1-9 for the foreseeable future, but if their
   students are to share in the benefits of reform some provision
   will have to be made for improving the quality of instruction
   in Grades 7-9 through distance education. For studfnts at this
   level radio is likely to prove more effective than alternative
   approaches (e.g. correspondence), and the costs of this
   approach to reform therefore include the costs of producing and
   disseminating radio programs, and of training and equipping
   teachers to make effective use of them.
  The goals of secondary school reform include equalization of
  educational opportunities as well as improvement in the
  education provided to the worst off, and increasing levels of
  funding for all-age schools will consequently be accompanied by
  some decr-ease (or at least a relative decline) in the real 
  level of funding provided for high schools, because of the
  higher rate of growth in the resources provided to the all-age
  schools. Decreasing levels of public support for high schools,
  possibly through a freeze in public subsidies for one or more
  years, need not be accompanied by a decline in the quality of
  facilities or instruction that they offer, however: the loss 'of
  revenue might for example be compensated to some degree by
  increasing fees for those students who are able to pay.
  It is likely that additional resources for the upgrading of
  all-age schools can be mobilized in the communities where the
  schools are located, though government assistance cannot be
  made contingent on the provision of local revenues. One
  mechanism through which this might be accomplished would be the
  creation of a Facilities Equalization Fund, which would
  dispense supplementary matching grants for school improvement
  to communities, through local school boards, that produced
  corresponding contributions in cash or in kind. In contrast to
  other secondary schools, all-age schools draw their students
  from clearly bounded communities. but the current perception of
  these schools as dumping grounds for CEE "failures" undermines
  community identification with them~ It is therefore possible
  that a clear commitment by the government to the upgrading of
  the all-age schools would begin to foster a sense of community
  responsibility and support for them, which would produce some
  local resources for the upgrading and improvement of specific
  schools.




                                                             5-13 

                                                                  '. 


The main advantage of this approach to reform is that it
directs attention and resources to raising the quality of
education received by those who are worst served by the present
system of secondary education, and who are most in need of
additional resources. Over time improvements in the quality of
all-age schools should increase both efficiency and equity in
secondary schools, by reducing drop-out rates. raising literacy
rates, and increasing the employability of system graduates;
and by bringing about a more equitable distribution of public
subsidies within the system.
This strategy also has a number of disadvantages. Most
significantly, it leaves selectivity intact as the organizing
principle of the secondary school system, though it ameliorates
some of the worst effects of selection by increasing the
resources and improving the education provided to the system's
"failures." Beyond this, the shift of resources to all-age
schools, even if only on a relative basis. is likely to lead to
a perceived "watering down" of quality in high 'schools, which
will not be greeted with equanimity by those who attend. work
in, or otherwise identify with traditionally favored
institutions. The political problem here is a more general
one: reform efforts focused specifically on all-age schools
are likely to encounter resistance from those associated with
high-prestige schools, which may undermine not only policies
aimed at equalizing resources and opportunities within the
system. but the very idea of a common curriculum for Grades 7-9
as well. This represents a very strong argument in favor of a
comprehensive approach to secondary school reform. rather than
an approach targeted to specific schools or sectors within the
system.
Option D - Extension of Primary School                                   . '" ~
This alternative would entail the extension of the primary
school to eight grades. or possibly nine, to ~e followed by
three years of secondary schooling. The secondary school might.
be extended to five years for specialized programs of study.
including preparation for 'A' levels: Under this alternative.
selection would take place at the end of Grade 8 or 9 for
admission to diverse programs in academic. technical. and
vocational high schools.
                                                                           -,
                                                                            ,
This strategy addresses the c~ntral issues in the reform of
secondary education directly and comprehensively. Advantages
include the fact that it postpones selection. allows sUfficient
time in the primary school curriculum for remediation for
students who need it, and also makes possible additional time
for completion of CXC curricula in secondary schools.




5-1~
·   ,




        The policy builds on existing structures and facilities, rather
        than requiring the creation of new institutions. It therefore
        promises improvement in the quality and coherence of primary
        schooling, and perhaps in the quality of secDndary schooling as
        well.
        The main disadvantage of this approach to reform is the nearly
        unanimous professional opinion tha~ adolescent children should
        not be retained in primary school, for both pedagogical and
        developmental reasons. Children of these ages have unique
        needs that are best met in their peer groups. A second
        disadvantage is the administrative and organizational scope of
        the reform, which would require changes of some kind -- either
        expansion or contraction -- not only in secondary schools but
        in nearly every school in Jamaica. A further disadvantage is
        that reform along these lines is likely to create strong,
        inexorable and probably undesirable pressures for the expansion
        of enrollments in secondary schools, and/or for the extension
        of the standard secondary curriculum past Grade 11. If the
        primary school is extended to eight years with selection at the
        end of Grade S, for example. there will be pressure to keep
        students in school at least through age 14. Alternatively, if
        the primary school curriculum is extended to Grade 9, pressures
        will emerge for a standard three-year secondary curriculum to
        allow adequate time for CXC and vocational preparation. Either
        way. enrollments and costs would rise significantly, not only
        in primary schools but to an ev~n greater extent in secondary
        schools. Additional pressures for expansion at the secondary
        level will be created by the fact that keeping students in
        primary school for two additional years will reduce present
        enrollment levels in many secondary schools, which school
        administrators and parents will naturally wish to fill.
        Because of these objections, no estimates of the cost of this
        alternative have been prepared. They would include the cost of
        expanding and upgrading facilities in primary schools which now
        offer only Grades 1-6. and expanding and upgrading facilities
        in those secondary schools that do not have facilities for
        students in Grades 7-9. in order to accommodate the new
        distribution of students. Recruiting and training new teachers
        would also be expensive. and especially so insofar as the
        reform leads to enrollment expansion at the secondary level.
        As with the creation of junior high schools, however. it is
        possible Chat some of these costs might be borne by local
        communities. as primary schools are community based. A further
        obstacle to the implementation of this policy is the loss of
        grades 7-S in high and new secondary schools. which will
        reduce their enrollments and probably increase their unit
        costs. thus placing pressure on budgets elsewhere in the
        educational system.



                                                                  5-15 

                                                                  .. 



E.     Creation of Junior High Schools and Departments
The alternative approaches to reform described above propose
improvements within constraints defined-by the present 
organization of the secondary school system. They leave the
main features of the system unchanged: profound inequalities
between high schools and other secondary schools ~nd pe'rvasive
emphasis on selection are likely to remain ir.definitely as
dominant characteristics of the system under either of these
policies. Insofar as the present reform aims to reduce                   ...
inequalities or limit the salience of selection within the
system. a more comprehensive approach to reform is
recomm·ended. This option is a strategy for the comprehensive
rationalization of secondary education in Jamaica.
Differentiated programmes in Grades 7-9 must be abolished. and
a new class of school. to be called the junior-highschool.               ·     1
offering the junior-high school curriculum must be created. At
the same time. the junior-high school curriculum. (the common
curriculum). must be offered in traditional and technical high
schools. which would then have junior and senior-high
departments. Reference has already been made (see Chapter Z)
to similar structural and curricular reforms based on the
comprehensive principle in countries like England. Sweden and
Finland. In Sweden, for example, the system for Grades 1-9 is
divided into three levels viz. Junior (1-3), Intermediate (4-6)
and a Senior level (7-9). Pupils attend th~ same school
through the junior and intermediate levels. but the transition
to the Grades 7-9 level often means a change of school. With a
Junior-High School system. a similar situation would obtain in
Jamaica where students would attend a primary level school for
grades 1-6 and a junior-high programme in the nearest available
school. Junior-high schools or departments would admit
students on the basis of geographic residence. with all
students attending designated schools on the basis of a "free
~low" from Grade 6 to Grade 7.  Curriculum, facilities. and
expenditures would be as nearly equal as possible across
schools. with selection for differentiated academic and
vocational institutions postponed to ttie end ~f Grade 9. Some
curricular differentiation would have to take place within
schools. however. in order to address the variable requirements
of students in need of remediation. for example. or of those
preparing for the CXC exams.                                                 .',

Under this alternative all high schools (including vocational            ....
                                                                         :

and technical high schools) would include senior secondary
programmes for students in Grades 10-11. with some offering
academic and others both academic and technical or vocational
programs. Many new secondary schools would continue
diversified senior programmes and in time become complete high
schools, or junior-highs only though a few more could be


5-16
converted to senior-technical-hiqh schools. Workshops and
other vocational traininq facilities could be consolidated in
centrally located technical-hiqh senior schools. which would
offer specialized proqrams in particular trades (e.q. auto
mechanics. or carpentry) rather than a-full array of vocational
courses. This would allow both a rationalization of
expenditure and the upqradinq of traininq in specific skill
areas.
The advantaqe of this junior-hiqh alternative is that it
directly and comprehensively addresses each of the central
objectives of the proposed secondary school reform. Selection
of students for differentiated opportunities is postponed until
the end of Grade 9. This will ensure that all students enjoy
equal access to the new curriculum. by reducinq the drop-out
rate and keepinq more children in school throuqh the completion
of junior-hiqh school. The creation of a new class of schools.
ultimately with a common curriculum and similar instructional
and other facilitie5. will ensure a qreater deqree of equality
in the distribution of educational resources and in the quality
of education provided across schools than is possible in the
present, hiqhly stratified system.
The disadvantaqe of this approach to reform is the maqnitude
and administrative complexity of the chanqes that would be
required to implement the policy and the effort it will require
in teacher upqradinq and supervision/in-service. While some
capital expenditure will be required for renovatinq senior
technical facilities, and providinq secondary type facilities
in the all-aqe schools, the major expenditure will have to be
made on ensurinq that the quality of teachinq is uniform across
the junior-hiqh proqramme in all schools. Chanqes this
sweepinq would be likely to encounter political resistance from
many quarters. both inside and outside the educational system.
and may be beyond the p~esent administrative capacity of the
Ministry of Education, unless reqional offices and headquarters
reorqanization are accomplished in the near future.
Estimates of the cost of this reform strateqy are presented in
Table 5.4. In qeneral, they ~re similar to the estimated costs
of the precedinq alternative, but the ultimate capital costs of
creatinq a common junior-hiqh school proqramme are
siqnificantly hiqher than the costs of improvinq all-aqe
schools, mainly because of the assumption that postponinq
selection to the end of Grade 9 and improvinq the quality of
instruction in Grades 7-9 will increase the percentaqe of
students completinq junior-hiqh school. The opportunities that
comprehensive reform provides for redeployinq teachers and
students amonq schools within the system. however. makes the
recurrent cost of comprehensive reform lower than that of the
strateqy focused solely on the all-aqe schools.


                                                          5-17
                                                                   ·,




 The implementation of reforms on this scale would encounter a
 variety of obstacles The pressure to convert all the new
 secondary schools into high schools at the senior level would     '"';
                                                                   ;
                                                                   :     I
                                                                   ,--, ..J
 be strong while costs would be high. Tiaditional high schools
 will pot welcome their loss of control over entry of students.
                                                                   ,
                                                                         ,
                                                                         ,
One consequence )f this resistance could be some loss of
clientele f:om public to private schools, and possibly some
reversion of the most prestigious high schools to the private
sector as well. While such developments are not entirely
desirable, they would nevertheless have the positive effect of
removing some schools and students from public payroll, thus       t'


freeing public resources for use in schools where they are more
urgently needed. In addition, the fact that junior-high
schools would serve students in the local community would
increase the possibility of calling upon community resources
for their support, thus freeing an additional quantity of
government funds for other uses.
  Despite these disadvantages, the study team strongly supports
  and recommends this option because of the potential it offers
  for addressing each of the chronic problems of the educational
  system. The implications which this options has for Grades
  10-13 are outlined below. The last two remaining chapters on
  teacher education and staff development and on Implementation
. Strategies assume that this option will be adopted.
Implications of the Junior High option for Grades 10-13
The following kinds of changes would be made to existing 

secondary level schools: 

1.     Traditional High Schools
                                                                    .'·l
                                                                   ":.:'.;
a. Grades 7-9 in all high schools would be designated 

junior-high departments. 

b. Grades 10-11 of high schools would be designated 

senior-high departments. This department would have a 

comprehensive programme offering subjects to the CXC level. 

c. Grades 12-13 would be clustered in central locations for 

teaching. purposes and would persist as an extension of the 

senior department in some schools. The grades 12-13 wouid 

offer an advanced level academic and business programme. 





5-18
2.  Comprehensive High Schools
These schools could be converted to high schools with the same
structure and programmes as outlined above and with the
possibility of some technical/agricultural studies dependent on
geography, local needs, funding and the national technical
system requirements (see Supplement).
3.  Technical/Agricultural High Schools
The  existing technical and agricultural high s~hools would be
transformed into senior-high schools, Grades 10-11. offering
specializations in these subjects. There might ultimately be
specialized academic senior-high schools also in the
specialized Technical or Agricultural High Schools might have
concern junior-high departments. depending on accommodations
and geography.
4.  New Secondary Schools
Some new secondary schools will become high schools. offering
junior-high and senior-high programmes. Others will become
junior-high or senior-high schools. In the short term. some
will remain new secondary schools with junior high departments
until they are converted at the senior level.
S.  All-Age Schools
The grades 7-9 of some all-age schools will become junior-high
departments. It is envisaged that many all-age schools
(grades 1-9) in isolated areas will remain. Even these schools
should offer the common junior-high curriculum. with improved
facilities and resources. and perhaps some distance education
for individual students.
The mix and location of schools as described above will depend
on the data from the school mapping project now nearing
completion in the ministry of education. In the long term, the
goal for the mix of schools at the secondary level should be:
a.  High schools   (~rades   7-11 or 13)
b.  Junior-high schools (Grades     7~9)

c.  Senior-high schools (including
    senior-~echnical/agricultural-high     schools) Grades 10-11 or
   Grades 10-13.
d.  Primary Junior-high schools in areas where numbers do not
    justify separate junior-high schools.



                                                              5-19 

                                                                  .. 



V.     FINANCING EDUCATIONAL REFORM
Both the capital and recurrent costs of adopting any of the
four preceding strategies for educational reform will be high.
but the full burden of these costs need not be borne out of the
Ministry of Education's budget. It is likely. for example.
that much of the funding needed to pay the capital costs
entailed by reform can be obtained from foreign donors. and
donor resources may help to defray some recurrent costs as
well. at least in the short run.
It should also be recognized. that not all of the local
resources needed for educational reform can or will necessarily
come from the Ministry of Education's annual budget
allocation. To produce the requisite quantity of revenue it
may be necessary to call on funds from other sources. These                 ;
                                                                            i
                                                                         . .i
would in the first analysis include the savings to be realized
by cutting back on current levels of subsidy or service in some
areas: and the generation of new resources through the
mobilization of increased levels of community and household
support.
Savings from current expenditures that could be used toward the
accomplishment of secondary education reform might come from
the gradual phase-out of vocational and pre-vocational programs
in Grades 7-9. with a concomitant decline" in the resources
needed for materials and the maintenance of workshop
facilities. Additional savings might come from the phase-out
of boarding facilities.




                                ·





5-20
               APPENDIX:   NOTES TO TABLES 5.1 - 5.4 


ALL  TABLES:
1.  Exchange rate between J$ and US$ is 5.5:1.
2.  All personnel costs based on average value in Unit Cost
    Study. corrected by 25 percent to reflect increases in
    teachers· contracts since 1987/88. Recruiting newly
    trained teachers would cost somewhat less than the table
    suggest.
3.  Estimates of capital costs are based on a cost per place of
    J$13883. This figure is derived from contracts for
    constructing. furnishing. and equipping the "central"
    all-age schools involved in the St. Thomas project. These
    values are consistent with the reported costs of
    construction for three vocational secondary schools.

Table 1:
1.  MOE staff costs based on estimated average annual salary-of
    J$30,000.
2.  External consultant costs based on estimate of US$10.000
    per person/month.
3.  Long-term external fellowship costs based on estimate of
    US$2500 per person/month.
4.  Workshop/in-service costs based on estimate of J$1000 per
    participant/week.
5.  Vehicle costs based on estimate of US$22,000 per vehicle,
    plus annual maintenance and operation costs of US$5.000.
6.  Exam development costs based on budgeted cost of developing
    the Grade 6 NAP.
7.  Production and dissemination cost of distance education
    materials based on estimate of J$280 per 15~minute program
    plus an equivalent amount for supporting materials and
    distribution.
8.  Book cost based on estimate of 5 books per student at US$6
    per book for 80.000 students. Textbook development cost
    based on estimated average annual salary of J$30.000.



                                                          5-21 

                                                                  .. 



Table 2:
                                                                              ,
1.  Assumed that 31 new secondary schools are now on shifts.                 .
2.  Cost of equipping and refurbishing secondary schools
    assumed to be J$3 million per school.
3.  Assumed that vice principals will not teach.
4.  Assumed that 25 percent of current teachers in NSS are
    specialists. and that conversion of these schools to THS
    will require the replacement of 75 percent of the
    teachers. The teachers that are replaced can be reassigned           ~";
    to other secondary schools.                                               "
                                                                         ..... J




5.  Expanding enrollments in high schools by these amounts
    would leave approximately 37,000 students in all-age
    schools and -- at current pupil/teacher ratios -- would
    make approximately 700 teachers redundant. It is doubtful
    that many of these teachers could make the adjustment to
    high school teaching, and so one consequence of expanding
    HS enrollments might be reducing pupil/teacher ratios in
    AAS.
6.  To accomplish the same expansion in enrollments in Grades
    7-9 without shifts would require the construction of
    approximately 100 new junior high schools for approximately
    58.095 students. The cost of constructing these schools 

    would be between J$545 million (US$99 million) and J$807 

    million (US$147 million). Non-teacher recurrent costs 

    would also rise substantially with the construction of 

    large numbers of new schools. 





5-22
Chapter 6
TEACHER EDUCATION AND STAFF   DEVELOPME~T



The success of the reforms recomme~ded in this study will
depend on in-service staff development for teachers. education
officers and other people in the system. and on appropriate
changes in pre-service· teacher education. In addition.
physical and material pre-conditions for the successful
implementation of the common Grades 7-9 curriculum in all
schools need to be established. In this chapter, we first
determine these pre-conditions by examining the features of the
existing situation. Requirements for teacher education and
staff development are then discussed.
A.   Pre-conditions for the success of the curriculum
Chapter 1 described the poor physical facilities in all-age
schools and some new secondary schools, the virtual absence of
instructional materials ·and resources in most schools, and the
grade-level organization which exists in the upper grades of
all-age schools. Achievement levels of students in the all-age
and the new secondary schools indicated a need for extensive
remediation as well as guidance and counselling. Three major
thrusts are needed if progress toward a common curriculum and
equality of educational opportunity can be made. These are
equalization of resources, improving the ability of all
students to benefit from instruction. and improving the quality
of teaching and learning.
Equalization of resources
In order for a common curriculum to be implemented to the same
degree in all types of schools. efforts have to be made to
equalize the physical facilities and resources and to improve
the quantity and quality of. instructional resources and
materials.
This requires:
     o   extensive physical upgrading of all-age schools.
     o   individual classrooms in all-age schools.
     o   more classrooms to reduce the teacher/pupil ratio.
     o   staff rooms where needed in all-age schools.



                                                            6-1 

                        .   11




                                                                   .,



      o   sufficient furniture in all types of schools.
      o   textbooks and materials for needy students in all-age
          schools (textbook rental exists for other schools).
      o   funds for visual aids and other instructional devices
          in all-age schools as well as in th~ other types of
          schools.
                                                                        ...   '


      o   organization of the all-age school staff for partial
          subject teaching where possible. This. together with
          the reduction in the pupil-teacher ratio would mean
          increases in the required number of teachers in the
          all-age schools.
Maximizing the ability of all students to benefit from
Instruction                                                               ,   ,

The notion of equity should include not just the existence of a
common curriculum. but an equal or equivalent instructional
environment as far as this is possible. In order for the
schools to plan for and work toward equalizing instruction. the
following are necessary:
      o   Remediation of all students who need it in
          Grades 7-9. This will include remedial reading and            ."    '.

          the implementation of remedial strategies in the
          all-age school and in the new secondary and high
          schools as well. One approach is to devote all or
          nearly all Language Arts periods to remedial reading
          for those students who need this remediation.
          Additional teachers with a special orientation will be
          required to address this need.
      o   Development and use of diagnostic tests in the schools
          but especially in the all-age school.
      o   The establishment of special classes in the primary
          schools for remediation. This would be a temporary
          measure until the reforms of the primary (Grades 1-6)         r'

          level are put in place.
      o   Removal of the local discretion allowed schools in the
          time allocated to subjects on the curriculum.
      o   Provision for guidance and counselling of all-age
          school students: the only type of school where
          guidance




6-2
·. 


            and counselling is non~existent. There is evidence
            that this group of students have limited parental
            guidance. experience severe conflicts in parent-child
            interaction. are lacking in knowledge of human
            sexuality and boy-girl relationships (one reason for
            high-drop-out rate among girls). and are ignorant of
            possible careers and their requirement.
       o    Preparation of curricular materials that will allow
            students to progress at their own rate. This may be
            in the form of workbooks and other instructional
            materials. audio-visual materials. academic games and
            puzzles or alternative textbooks.
   (Instructional organizations such as these will allow the slow
   learner to learn at his/her own pace without becoming
   demotivated. and the mor~ able to progress and not be kept
   behtnd. This will also. in part. address the range of ability
   which now exists in the schools).
       o    Provide basic necessities for schooling which poorer
            parents are unable to provide (e.g. costs of
            transportation. uniforms. etc.). This could reduce
            the high drop-out rate among low income students.
   Improving the guality of teaching and learning
   Equalizing resources and maximizing students' ability to
   benefi~ from instruction are necessary but not sufficient for
   reform. One has to improve the teaching/learning process as
   well. The following are needed:
       o    Adoption of alternative teaching strategies. These
            strategies are needed not only to be consistent with
            the new curriculum materials, but also to provide
            substitutes for those teaching methods now in use
            which fail to enhance student learning. This problem
            is particularly acute in the all-age schools. Use of
            individualization. e.g. grouping, and mixed ability
            teaching. These are necessary even when classes are
            streamed.
       o    Improvement in the social/emotional climate of all-age.
            schools and possibly new secondary classrooms.
       o   Use of teacher-made classroom tests. Such tests will
           become an essential part of the curriculum if
           materials are designed so that students work at their
           own pace.




                                                             6-3 

                                                                      .. 




      o    Upgrading of the content knowledge of all-age and 

           possibly new secondary school teachers. This is 

           necessary in all subjects as a~preparation for subject 

           teaching, but is especially critical in Maths and 

           Science. 

      o    ~stallishment of some resource centres for teachers in
           6trategic locations throughout the island. These
           centres would provide professional reading for                        ,       .
                                                                             ,'
           teachers, resource materials for the teaching of                  ."
           school subjects, and advice in the preparation of
           visual aids and other instructional materials. Twenty
           of these regional resource centres have been planned
           for in a previous project. This reform can provide
           the secondary-level materials for these resource
           centres.
B.    Teacher Supply, Teacher Education and Staff Development
 Effort in these three areas must take into account the
 characteristics of teachers now in the system, the existing
 teacher education programme. and the demands of the new
 curriculum. The significant teacher characteristics described
 in Chapter 1 are as follows: in the all-age school. and                     . 1

 possibly in the new secondary schools, the majority of
'Grades 7-9 teachers are trained for primary level teaching and
 more than one-half are lacking in sufficient knowledge to teach
 Maths and Science effectively. At the High School level. about
 40\ are university graduates. but 16\ have no professional
 training. There is a high attrition rate among all groups.
1.    Supply of teachers and other personnel
                                                                             .' ,
With a decrease in the pupil-teach~ ratio and the introduction
of some subject teaching, more teachers will be needed for the .
all-age schools. The candidate pool, however. is not large.
Many teachers' colleges. in fact. have difficulty filling the                ,       l

first year places. Furthermore. the all-age school is the last
choice of the teachers' college graduate. The following can be
done in the short term:
      o    Invite retired teachers to return to the classroom for
          ·2-3 years. Such teachers would get regular pay. and
           pension. They would also be required to undergo any
           required in-service courses.
      o   Review teachers' salaries to make them more                        :-'

          competitive (this will be discussed further under
          teachers' careers).




6-4
·. 



        o    Provide more resources for and expand the preliminary
             programme in the teach~rs' colleges. This will
             increase the number of candidates for teaching.
        o    Investigate the effects of teacher vacation leave
             policies on staffing.
   There will also be a need for more guidance and counselling in
   all-age schools. A guidance counsellor would have a reduced
   teaching load. Or in urban centres, a guidance counsellor can
   be assigned to more than one school. The guidance counsellor
   can also be responsible for teaching aspects of the Personal
   Development course.
   With the planned expansion of the corps of territorial
   education officers (T.E.Os), more persons will be needed for
   these positions. These persons can also be recruited in the
   short term from retired teachers and principals.
   Training of personnel
   An increase in the demand for guidance and counselling requires
   preparation of these personnel. This preparation can be done
   at the UWI's Faculty of Education, if resources are provided to
   support such a programme. TEO's can benefit from the Faculty
   of Education's B.Ed programme which has units in supervision
   and Leadership. Administration and Curriculum. The curriculum
   of these units should be reviewed periodically with the members
   of the supervision unit of the Ministry of Education.
   2.   Teacher Education - Pre-Service
   since the vast majority of the teachers at the Grades 7-9 level
   ere prepared in the teachers' colleges, attention should be
   paid to the pre-service programmes of the colleges. The
   existing teacher education curriculum should be modified to
   include the following:
        o   Knowledge of the new Grades     7-9   curriculum.
        o   Remedial   ~eaching   strategies.
        o    Instruction in remedial reading for all teachers.
        o   The teaching of Aesthetics at the secondary level.
        o   The teaching of Technology Studies at the secondary
            level.




                                                                 6-5 

                                                                    ..   ~         .
                                                                                  -
   

                                                                             ~.



                                                                             -!

                                                                         ~!
      o     The teaching of Petsonal Development at the secondaty
            level.                                                       n!
                                                                         ,
                                                                         :."
      o     Teaching sttategies suitable fot modulat cutticulat
            matetials.
                                                                         ..!
3.    Teachet Education - In-Setvice                                         ~~


The in-setvice education of teachets is tteated hete undet two
majot headings - wotkshops fot teachets and school-based                          i
teachet development.
                                                                         ~i
      i)    Wotkshops                                                    I
                                                                                 ..,
            In otdet to ptepate the teachets in the schools fot                   j

            the common cutticulum, thete is need fot wotkshops on
            the following topics, and accotding to the following         ,~


            modules:                                                     , ,
                                                                         ;

            Module 1                                                         :    ;

               Otientation to the new cutticulum
               Teaching methods in the vatious subjects                  .,
               Undetstanding and dealing with the adolescent
                Issues and ptoblems in education - undetstanding             .~
                the teachet's tole.                                              .~


            Module 2
                Individualization and gtouping fot mixed ability
                classes
               Classtoom management
               Establishing a good classtoom climate
            Module 3
               Remedial Reading                                              , !.
                                                                                 .'.
               Remediation and temedial sttategies
               Ptepatation and use of visual aids
            Module 4
               Ptepating classtoom tests and intetpteting tesults        ,        ,
               Continuous assessment in schools
               Using diagnostic tests
                                ·
Distance teaching (e.g. cottespondence coutses, teaching by
tadio and TV) can be used to supplement wotkShops in content
and methodology. The need fot distance teaching is essential
as attendance at workshops can be disruptive and time
consuming. Teachers. the majotity of whom ate women with
families. do not always find it easy to ttavel to attend
wotkshops even though they often express a desite for them.




6-6
The need fo~ distance education will continue fo~ a lonq time.
until the majo~ity of the teachinq fo~ce is t~ained at the
Bachelo~s level.  A distance ~ducation co-o~dinato~ should be
appointed to o~qanize this p~oq~amme./

       ii)  Staffing      fo~ Wo~kshops

            Leade~s    wo~kshops should be d~aw~ f~om the UWI.
                       of
            teache~s' colleqes. Education Office~s of the Minist~y
            of Education and qood expe~ienced teache~s. Such
            pe~sons may ~equi~e t~aininq in how to desiqn. p~esent
            and evaluate wo~kshops. Fo~eiqn assistance may also
            be souqht fo~ special a~eas such as Mixed Ability
            Teachinq. Remedial Readinq and Remedial St~ateqies.

It will be necessa~y fo~ T.E.O's to assume ~esponsibility fo~
the followinq unde~ the coo~dination of one o~ more pe~son(s)
in the Ministry of Education:

       o    Identifyinq potential workshop              leade~s

       o    Conductinq needs analyses amonq teachers

       o    Co-o~dinatinq          the   p~esentation   and evaluation of
            workshops

       o    Liaisinq with          forei~n   aqencies which    p~ovide    wo~kshop
            leade~s


       o    O~qanizinq       t~aininq      in desiqninq and presentinq
            wo~kshops


       o    Any   othe~     administ~ative      matte~s

C.     School-Based    teache~       development

This app~oach to staff development is t~eated unde~ th~ee main
a~eas:  supervision by Te~~ito~ial Education Office~s. (TEOs).
school-based teache~ improvement. and induction.

       i)   Supe~vision       by   Te~~ito~ial     Education   Office~s    (TEOs)

            TEOs will play a c~itical ~ole in the actual
            implementation 6f the new cu~~iculum. ~nd the
            maintenance of teachinq and cu~~icula~ standa~ds over
            time. Existinq and new TEOs will need to be t~ained.
            Wo~kshops can be planned coope~atively between the




                                                                              6-7 

            Ministry and U.W.1. Familiarity with the .IDB
            workshops should be a-requirement. Workshops should
            include the following topics:'
                The nature. and models. of teacher development
                The role of the supervisor - curriculum and               I
                administration                                       :..~ I

                The philosophy of the curriculum
                Coaching and supervision
                Lesson planning and other aspects of instruction
                Testing. measurement and evaluation
                Continuous assessment
                Classroom management
                School management                                    ./

                School-board relationships
TEOs should have experience in teaching. preferably at both the
primary and secondary levels and be familiar with the
curriculum. Since TEOs will likely be subject specialists by
background. the deployment of secondary level TEOs may be
different from that of primary TEOs. TEOs may also benefit
from some of the teachers' workshops.
                                                                     .   ,~



      ii)   School-based teacher improvement                         . l



            In addition to workshops and supervision by TEOs. it
            is important to build a capacity within the school
            itself for continuing teacher improvement and
            experimentation. In this regard. the principal plays
            a key role. He or she will be the one to set norms
            and expectations regarding quality of teaching. use of
            time. testing. and interaction with students and
            parents. The principal will provide opportunities for
            teachers to plan. observe. share with each other. and
            will recognize. acknowledge and capitalize on
            teachers' strengths. Such a role is possible if the
            principal is relieved of fund raising and/or if the
            vice-principal has a reduced teaching load (not often
            the case in the all-age school). The librarian can
            also plan an important role in this process; he/she
            will have to be oriented to this new responsibility.
            School-based teacher development will require some
            training for principals and librarians. Workshops on
            school-based in-service can be organized for those
            principals and vice-principals who have not
            participated in the IDB workshops. Principals will
            also require some help and guidance in organizing for
            subject teaching. This may be provided by the TEOs
            and may not require formal workshops.




6-8
·. 


            In light of the global recession facing all developing
            countries. staff development through supervision by
            TEOs must be shared.' Consequently. a school-based
            approach should be adopted. and. as the literature on
            staff development suggests. may be most effective in
            bringing about teacher change.

       iii) Induction

            The importance of the first year or two of teaching is
            increasingly being recognized. The teacher picks up
            habits and dispositions. good or bad. which persist
            over time and influence teaching.  It is critical that
            the school intervenes to set expectations but also to
            help the new teacher to adjust to the curriculum. to
            the school and the students. This adjustment will be
            of special importance in cases where the new teacher
            is not trained for the secondary level. Planning for
            induction also requires careful thought to teaching
            load and deployment. Building the capacity for
            on-going induction is an essential part of
            school-based teacher improvement. but merits separate
            attention.  Induction can be the joint responsibility
            of the principal and the TEO.

   Teachers' Careers

   Teaching has traditionally been a respectable occupation in
   Jamaican society. There are distinctions in the teaching
   force. historical in origin, which are related to
   socio-economic background and type of school. Teachers in the
   primary/all-age and new secondary schools have traditionally
   been the children of the agricultural and rural classes and
   have received their education in the teachers' colleges. High
   school teachers have. up till the 1970s. been recruited mainly
   from the middle classes. and have had 'A' level or university
   qualifications.  This is now changing. Today. more than half
   of high school teachers have teachers' college training.

  There is a fairly high attrition rate among all teachers. Many
  use teaching as a means of upward social mobility. Graduate
  teachers in the high schools are easily recruited into the
  private sector in a society where there is a shortage of
  personnel with such qualifications.  Salary, status and working
  conditions are powerful factors pushing teachers from the
  profession. for though teaching is respected. it has relatively
  little status in a society which has become more materialistic
  than in the past. Furthermore, the escalating cost in recent




                                                             6-9 

years of basic necessities such as housing and transportation.

have forced some dedicated teachers to switch careers. or to          ,.. ; 

                                                                      · .:
moonlight. in order to survive economi~ally. Today. reports
from high schools are that very few students wish to ctioose          · .1
teaching as a career.
Proposals for the future
There are tqree issues which need to be addressed in qny
reform - teachers' qualifications. teacher supply and teachers'       ·      ,
salaries.
Teachers' Qualifications
If a common curriculum is to be implemented in all types of
schools. there must be teachers who are more or less equally
qualified. The present inequities and inadequacies can be
addressed in the following ways in the short term:
       1.    Ensure that teachers in the all-age and new secondary
             schools are trained for the secondary level. Those       .,.. :
             80\ in the all-age schools and the unknown number in
             the new secondary schools who have primary level
             training can be included in the present                  · .j
             post-certificate programme now administered by the
             JBTE. This programme was originally intended to
             upgrade teachers with a certificate to a diploma level
             within their original specialization - primary or
             secondary. But if funding is provided. the programme
             can be extended to include this group of teachers.
                                                                      ·      ,
       2.    Provide professional training for the graduates and
             pre-trained teachers in the high schools.
             approximately 450. The scholarships made available
             under the proposed Human Resources Development
             programme, will make 200 of these university graduates   :: 1
             professionally trained. The remaining 250 can be
             trained in a programme carried out by a few of the
             teachers' colleges in conjunction with the Faculty of
             Education. Placing the programme in the teachers'
             colleges is more desirable than at the Faculty.
             because more teachers would be trained in a shorter
             period of time and the unit cost would be less.
             Additional funding would be required for this
             programme.                                               ..'"   .
             In the longer term. the aim should be to have a
             secondary teaching force that is mainly graduate         '. .~
             trained. This is justified on two counts - it would




6-10
·. 


            be one way of equalizing resources and it would
            improve the content Knowledge of teachers.   One
            strategy to achieve this end is to supplement the
            existing BA/BSc and Dip Ed. route of teacher education
            with a 3-year B.Ed. which would require more ~ontent
            Knowledge than the existing 2-year B.Ed. now offered
            by the Faculty of Education.   Because of the large
            numbers involved. one might consider placing this
            programme in those teachers' colleges. which have the
            facilities and the staff with the requisite
            qualifications. The Faculty of Education would be
            associated with the programme.   This represents a more
            long term goal. Teachers with a Diploma in Teaching
            have matriculation for the second year of this 3-year
            B.Ed. degree. These teachers should be encouraged to
            complete this degree.

   Teacher Supply

   In order to ensure an adequate supply of teachers in the short
   and long term. it is essential that the number of high school
   places b. expanded. The existing structure with limited places
   in the high school and limited access creates a bottle neCK
   that is very restrictive.   The result is that there are not
   enough high school graduates to satisfy the demands of the
   commercial sector and provide candidates for tertiary and
   higher education.  If these high school places are expanded,
   there would be more candidates for teacher education and less
   need for industry to recruit from the teaching profession. The
   programme of upgrading of the senior cycle of some new
   secondary schools should- continue.

   Teachers' Salaries and Teacher Retention

   Despite its function as-a means of upward social mobility.
   teaching attracts persons who have some core beliefs~ values
   and preferences. When aSKed why they chose teaching. Jamaican
   teachers cite the opportunity for interacting with and
   influencing children, and their admiration for teachers. But
   the opportunity for further training is also an attraction.
   Teaching, therefore. has some special features which attract
   and can potentially sustain and satisfy teachers. Job
   satisfaction. however,' results not just from the profession'S
   inherent characteristics, but also from the quality of the worK
   environment, and the remuneration and rewards which teachers
   get for their worK.




                                                             6-11 

                                                                    .~,       .



The first necessity to ensure retention is a salary that is
competitive with that of other 'occupations requiring comparable
qualifications. The salary scale should be extended enough to
offer motivation to those who remain in the profession for a
long time. Secondly, the teaching profession could be made
more differentiated in function so that more teachers can
aspire to prorr?tion.
Good working conditions include a reasonable pupil-teacher
ratio, decent surroundings in which to work. and support for
teaching in the form of materials, textbooks, and proper
subventions. Good working conditions also include a workplace
where one can become intellectually involved in teaching and
can learn from teaching. Teachers have a need for support           " .I


within their school and for opportunities to talk about what
they do and how they can do it better. They have a need to
continue learning within the schoof environment. supervision
by the Ministry is necessary, based on enlightened policies
regarding teacher development on the job to make teaching more
exciting and interesting, and ultimately, to encourage good
teachers to remain in the classroom.
Strategy for Implementation
                                                                    .. '
Strategies for implementing programmes for teacher education
and staff development assume the following:
       o   that ther·e will be at least a lO-year implementation
           period for this project
       o   that for this phase of the project, in the provision
           of additional staff to all-age schools, emphasis will
           be placed on the larger all-age schools, i.e. those
           with an enrollment of over 500. However, school-based
           staff development and teacher improvement will be
           targeted to all schools
                                                                    -
       o   increases in some staff (e.g. guidance counsellors)      ~.'

           will take place on a phased ba~is because of a
           shortage of existing human resources and a need for
           training
       o   all initial expenses and investment will be considered
           as capital expenses. Any expenses incurred aft'er the
           initial year, will be considered recurrent. However,
           all workshop expenditures are considered capital
           expenses                                                 .     ,
                                                                    ~)




6-12
.. 


       o    new recruits will be hired at various levels of the
            salary scale. An average salary is quoted throughout
            to take this variati~n and future adjustments into
            account.                    I



   The physical facilities and furnishing required for
   equalization of resources are excluded from this itemization of
   costs.   Instructional materials for teachers are also excluded
   because of the recent increase in teachers' salaries to
   $5.000.00. and then $6.500.00 per annum for materials
   allowance. Textbooks and materials for remedial classes and
   for needy students .in all-age schools are included in the total
   costing.

   A diagram showing the implementation dates for the various
   elements in the programme is provided in figure 6.1 Table 6.1
   (6 p,ges) details a cost estimate .




                    ·





                                                              6-13 

0
 I
I-'

"" 
                  Recruit
                      ment 0'50
                                           Develop
                                           new
                                                                    Investigate
                                                                    effects
                                                                                   InvesUgate
                                                                                   the
                                                                                                    Design
                                                                                                    workshop
                                                                                                                   Recruit new
                                                                                                                   lecturer In
                                                                                                                                   Design and
                                                                                                                                   present
                      Remedial             Post-Certlfl             of teacher     leve/ 0'         for TEO's      Guidance &      workshop
       19901991 
     teachers             cate                     leave          training                        CounseHing      on remedial
                      and 40               programme                policies       01 new                          U.W.I           teaching for
                      Guidance                                                     secondary                                       remedial
                      Counse/,OI S                                                 teachers                                        teachers

                                          Racrultmen                Recruitment    Develop          Design and     Recrull14       Present                                 Expand or             Provide
                                          of 50 new                 0' Staff De    dlagnosllc       presentallon   additional      workshop                                establish             materials
                                          TEO's                     velopment      tests            of Workshop    teachers        on                                      library               In reglona'
       1991··1992                                                   Coordinator                     leaders        college lee-    Supervison                              facilities In         resource
                                                                                                                   tures for the   for TEO's                               High                  centres
                                                                                                                   prelim and                                              Schools
                                                                                                                   post-cert
                                                                                                                   programmes

                                          Modlficallon              Recruitment    Preparation      Design of      Presentallon                               Design and
                                          of content                of             andfleld         In-service     of                                         present
                                          In the                    Dlstance       tesUng of        workshops      In-SelVlce                                 W/Shops
       1992-1993 
                        teacher                   Teaching       Distance         for teachers   W/Shops                                    on
                                          educaUon                  Coordinator    Teaching                        to teachers                                Schoo/
                                          ourrlculum                               modules for                                                                based
                                                                                   In-Service                                                                 INSET
                                                                                   educallon
                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                          Recruit                   Begin
                                          teachers                   In-service
                                          college                   Programme
       19931994 
                          lecturers                via
                                          for the                   Distance
                                           training of              Teaching
                                           university                                                                                                                                                     "
                                          graduates                                                                                                                It             ·

       199·11995 
                                                                                                                                                                                  It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I

                     I Recruitment
       1995-1996 
   of
                     24 Guidance
                     Counsellors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I
       1996-2000 

                                                                    Continuation of the programme


                                                                                                                                                                                           Cook-chIHIO'
                                                                           Figure 6.1. Time Frame for Implementation Teacher 

                                                                              Education and Staff Development 1990-2000 





               I
                                     "
                                     ~"
                                                     t:. ,.', . ~             '$   .
                                                                                   ~
                                                                                       '
                                                                                                                     ('
                                                                                                                                    ,   ..
                                                                                                                                        ,~
                                                                                                                                                    . 3
                                                                                                                                             -.. ' 1-   ~."      I.,;       '",   ;.
                                                                                                                                                                                       c   .~,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     L',-l            J   ,"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
.. .    


                                                     Table 6.1
                                            Itemization of Costs
                                  Teacher Education and Staff/Development

                                                                                   JA$
                                                                            Capital   Recurrent
       A.    Increases In Staff
       1.    Remedial teachers in All-Age Schools*,
             (172) and some New Secondary (28).
             50 to be recruited each year over the 5-year
             period 1991-95 @ $30,000:00 p.a. (ave).

             Capital Cost             . 1991                            $1.5 m
             Recurrent Cost             1992 
                                         $3.0   m
                                        1993 
                                         $4.5   m
                                        1994 
                                         $6.0   m
                                        1995 
                                         $6.0   m

       2.    Guidance Counsellors in New Secondary
             (52) and AII-Age* SchoOls (172). 40 new
             guidance counsellors to be recruited each
             year over the period 1991-2000 .
             @ $35,000:00 p.a. (ave).                                   $1.4 m

             Capital Cost               1991                            $1.4 m
             Recurrent Cost             1992                                           $2.8 m
                                        1993                                           $4.2 m
                                        1994                                           $5.6 m
                                        1995                                           $7.0 m
                                        1996 (24 additional only)                      $7.84 m
                                        1997-2000                                     $31.36 m

       3.    Territorial Education Officers (50)
             @ $35,000:00 p.a. (ave).                                   $1.75 m

             Capital Cost               (1992)                          $1.75m
             Recurrent Cost             1993-2000                                     $14.0 m


       4.    Staff Development Co-ordinator (1)
             @ $40,000:00 p.a. (ave).

             Capital Cost               (1992)                          .$.04 m
             Recurrent Cost             1993-2000                                        .32 m



             *Only All-Age schools with enrollment of more than
             500 will be assigned guidance counsellors and
             remedial teachers. Some of these larger All-Age
             schools may become Junior High Schools.




                                                                                                  6-15
                                         Table    6.1   (cont'd)
                                                                             JA$
                                                                     Capital    Recurrent

5.    Distance Education Co-ordinator
      @ $40,000:00 p.a. (ave).

      Capital. Cost             1992                                 $.04 m
      Recurrent Cost            1993-2000                                          $ .32 m

                                    A · Sub-Total                    $6.48m       $92.94 m


B.    New Curricular Materials and programmes

      (N.B.: The development of individualized curricular 

      materials and remedial material will be part of the 

      curriculum development associated with the reform) 


1.    Development of diagnostic tests (Reading. Maths,
      Leaming Disability, Mental Ability)

      120 man days @ $700:00 per day           $84.000:00

2.    Extension of the preliminary programme in 7 teachers'                                    '"   ,:'
      colleges to accommodate 300 additional students

      a)  7 additional lecturers @ $45,000:00 p.a. (ave).

          Capital Cost          1992                               $315,000:00
          Recurrent Cost        1993-2000                                         $2.52 m

      b)  Unit cost for tertiary education 

          @ $9,000:00 per student 


          Capital Cost          1992                                 $2.7 m
          Recurrent Cost        1993-2000                                         $21.6 m
                                                                                               ·    I

3.    Establishment of New Post-Certificate programme
      to upgrade primary trained teachers to secondary
      trained status (approx. 5,000). 300 to be trained
                                                                                       -
      each year.

      a)  Curriculum development in 16 courses: 

          8 man days per course 


          128 man days at $700.00 per day                           $89,600:00                 .~   .

                                                                                   COO/l·213
                                         Table 6.1 (cont'd)

                                                                         JA$ 

                                                                 Capital    Recurrent
      b) 7 additional lecturers @ $45,000 p.a. (ave).

          Capital Cost          1992                           $315,000:00
          Recurrent Cost        1993-2000                                       2.52m
4.    Programme to train guidance counsellors at U.W.1.

      a)  Lecturer in Guidance and Counselling (1)
          Capital Cost        1992       (ave)                 $180,000:00
          Recurrent Cost      1993-2000 (ave)                                  $1.44 m

      b)  Unit cost for 20 students each year

          Capital Cost          (1992)         @$22,000
                                               per student     $440,000:00
          Recurrent Cost        (1993-2000)                                    $3.52m


5.    Modification of content in the Education and
      Methodology courses of the Teacher Education
      programme (20 courses, 6 man days per course)

      120 man days at $700:00 per day                           $84,000:00

6.    Programme to upgrade untrained university
      graduates to trained graduate status (approx.
      250 teachers) - 30 each year

      a.  , Lecturer (teacher's college) 

          @ $45,000:00 p. a. (ave) 


          Capital Cost          1993                            $45,000:00
          Recurrent Cost        1994-2000                                    $360,00:00


      b)  Unit Cost for tertiary education 

          @ $9,000:00 per student 



          Capital Cost          1992.                          $270,000:00
          Recurrent Cost        1993-2000                                      $2.16 m


7.    Preparation of modules, self-instructional materials,_
      and teacher's guide for the delivery of the content of
      in-service workshops via distance teaching


      70 man days @ $500:00 per day                             $35,000:00




                                                                                          6-17
                                                                                                .-,, .
                                                                                                ,




                                                                                                · ,I




                                            Table 6.1 (cont'd)
                                                                                                -.  ,
                                                                                                            ,




                                                                            JA$ 

                                                                    Capital    Recurrent
8.    Materials, printing costs, equipment and associated
      costs for Distance Teaching (In-service education)


           Capital Cost            1993                          $400,000:00                        ,       ,
                                                                                                ~           ,I
           Recurrent Cost          1994-5                                       $100,000:00


                                      B - Sub-Total                $4.9576m      $14.78 m
C.    Inyestigatlons


1.    Investigation of the effect of teacher leave
      policies and implications of Change

                                                                                                    ,        :
      20 man days @ $700:00 per day                               $14,000:00                    ,1

2.    Investigation of the level of training of
      teachers In New Secondary Schools


      15 man days @ $700:00 per day                               $10.500:00


                                 C - Sub-Total                    $24,500:00


D.    WorKshops                                                                                     --
                                                                                                        .}

1.    Design of in-service workshops
      (done simultaneously with development of
      Distance TeaChing materialS)
                                                                                                    ::.4
                                                                                                    ....)
      30 man days at $700:00 per day                             , $21,000:00


2.    Presentation of In-service workshops to
      approx. 4,000 of the 10,000 secondary level
      teachers. EaCh WOrkshop will last 4 days (1 day
      per module). 80 x 4-day workShOps will presented                                              ;       -.
      over a period of 4-5 years



                                                                                                        ...      

      a)   Salary for presenters
                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                    '
           320 man days at $700:00 per day                       $224.000:00



                                                                                    COO/C·215
.. 


                                          Table 6.1 (cont'd)
                                                                             JA$ 

                                                                   Capital      Recurrent


        b)  Transportation and associated costs for presenters

             so @ $200:00 per session                             $16,000:00


        c) Transportation and associated costs for teachers
           (where applicable - about 25% Of the total number)

             1000 @ $200:00 per session                          $200,000:00

        d)    Miscellaneous cost for each_workshOp

               SOx $300:00                                        $24,000:00
                                                                                     .
  3.           Design and presentation of workshops to
             . workshop leaders and course designers
               on designing and presenting workshops
               (3 sessions - 5 days each)


             15 man days @ $700:00 per day                        $10,500:00

  4.    Design of workshops for TEOs

        10 days @ $700:00 per day                                  $7,000:00

  5.    Presentation of workshops to TEOs
        (4 sessions over 2 years)

        a) Salary for presenters

             16 man days at $700:00 per day                       $11,200:00'

        b) Transportation Costs for TEOs

             50 @ $200:00 each                                    $10.000:00

        C)  Per-diem costs for TEO's on trainin~

             50 x $100:00 per day x 4 days                       "$20,000:00

  6.    Design of workshops on school-based
        INSET for principals

        5 days at $700:00 per day                                 $43.500:00



                                                                                         CooK·:Zlf




                                                                                                     6-19
                                         Table 6.1 (cont'd)
                                                                                           ......j
                                                                                            ,
                                                                                           l ·
                                                                         JA$ 
             ,-J
                                                                 Capital    Recur          ",.,,
                                                                                           ,


                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                           #            ;




7.    PresentatiC""I of-workshops to approx 600 sChool                                     '
                                                                                           u._

      prir .;ipals (20 2-day sessions over 2 years)
                                                                                           ;-c',
                                                                                               ~.           i
      a) Presenters salaries 
                                                             ~.. , i



           40 man days @ $700:00 per day 
                    $28,000:00                   ; ....       ,
                                                                                               .)
      b) Transportation for presenters 
                                                                ,

           2OxS2OQ:00 
                                         $4,000:00

      C)  Transportation for principals where applicable
           (roughly 50% of total)
                                                                                                    "


           300 x $200:00                         $              60,000:00 
                             \
                                                                                                    ;J

      d) Per diem for principals @ $100:00 per day             $12,000:00 
                .~;. ~


                                                                                               . l
      e)   Miscellaneous expenses                                                              '            ,
                                                                                           ';"j

           20 sessions x $300:00                                $6,000:00                      ~')



8,    Special workshop for 5.0 remedial teachers                                                    "
                                                                                                        .

                                                                                                        ,

      recruited in 1990-91

      1 x 2·day wOrkshop

      Presenter's salary                                        $1,400:00

      Design of workshop                                        $1,000:00

      Transportation, and other miscellaneous costs             $1,400:00
                                                                                               "'' '\
                                 D - Sub-total                $661,000:00                      1.,J


                                                                                               .,.:....




                                                                               COQ/(-217       ~,


                                                                                                            ,r
                                                                                               1.
                                                                                               ,            ,
                                                                                               ,    '(
.. 


                                         Table 6.1 (cont'd)

                                                                           JA$
                                                                 Capital         Recurrent
  E.    Besourse Centres and Libraries

  1.    Expansion or establishment of library
        holdings in Junior High Schools
        - libraries established in 20 schools
        each year over the period

        Capital Cost            1992·                         $100.000:00
        Recurrent Cost          1993-2000                                       $800,000:00

  2.    Materials, books, educational journals
        in 20 resourse centres
                                                                            .
        Capital cost                          $200.000:00
        Recurrent Costs for subcriptlon to joumals
        1993-2000, ($2.000 x 20 x 8)                          $320,000:00

                                                 Sub-total    $300,000:00         $1,12 m

                                                 Total         $12,4231 m       $108.84rn


                                                                                    CooIc·2fB




                              ·





                                                                                                6-21
     n!
     ,
     U




·

Chapter 7
IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES


If there is to be genuine equality of oppo~tunlty for most of
the people of Jamaica. then the present system must be
restructured around more equitable patterns and practices in
the schools. The major problem facing those in Jamaica who
wish to effect reform. is how to gradually restructure the
ideas that people have about the processes and outcomes of
education.

The previous chapters in this study. and those in Volume II.
describe the schools and the system. analyze the problems. and
propose possible solutions.

This final chapter is intended to assist those responsible for
providing leadership in secondary education to manage the
change process - the Ministers and senior Ministry of Education
officials in particular. The suggestions are designed to be
consistent with the Study of School Administration of the World
Bank IV project and the UNESCO Report of 1983.

Those reports and this study are based on the same assumptions
about organization. supervision and curriculum. The goal is a
coherent, efficient Ministry with a small coordinating central
office and functional. integrated regional offices. A common
element in both the administration study and in this secondary
reform study is the emphasis given to the restructuring,
training and management of a corps of territorial education
officers.



A practical plan for the reform of secondary education in
Jamaica will almost certainly bring together elements from the
policies and plans described in previous chapters of this
study. No matter what kind of reform policy is finally
developed. however. the implementation of secondary school
reform will require careful planning and the coordination of
simultaneous activities throughout the school system.

A key element of secondary reform, therefore. is that the
planning and coordinating capacities o~ the Ministry of
Education must be strengthened if reform is to succeed.




                                                            7-1 

                                                                                                                                                                                        .. 




                                                                                               PROPOSED

                           CURRICULUM ORGANIZATION 
                                                                                                                                           -~
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                               .....,
                                                                                                                                                                                               .
                                                                                   N                                          S
                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                                               ., ;,
                                                                                                                                                                                               "


                                                                              P    0
                                                                         H,   FI   N                                          X

                   APf'fIEN
                                                   \lCCA.TlONAL          E.    I   -   CUL1\IRAL.  COLI..EGE
                                                                                                                 TEACHEI'IS
                                                                                                                              T
                                                                                                                                       COMMUNITV
                                                                                                                                                         COI.1.EGE OF
                                                                                                                                                     ARTS, SCIENCE
                                                                                                                                                                           UNIVERSITY
                                                                                                                                                                             OF1HE
JOBS              TlCESHIP
                                                     llIAINING           A.   V    F   llIAINiNG      OF
                                                                                                                 COLI..EGES
                                                                                                                              H
                                                                                                                                        COI.1.EGES   &   TECHNOLOGY        WESTINOIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                               :' J
                                              OEVElDPMENT                R.        0     CENTFI£ AQFllCUl.nJRE
                                                                              A
                                                    INSTI11JTE           1:        R                                          F
                                                                              T
                                                                              E
                                                                                   M                                          o
                                                                                   A                                          R                                         eTHFORM


........ 
....
                                                                                   L                                          M                              I          CW$TERS


                 ..... .....
                               .....
                                       .... ....                                          Sec, Graduation Diploma
                                                   ,,                                  CXC'S     s.s.c.'s
                                                                                                    UPPER
                                                        ....   ,,                      HIGH
                                                                                                 SECONDARY
                                                                                                                    TECH


                                                                 ,                                    50%
                                                                     \   ....... 1    .
                                                                                  ····
 .........                             I.... ~       
   Expanding Diversified
                                                                              CERTIFICATE - COMMON LEAVING EXAM
                                                                                                                                                Programme, as finances permit:
                                                                                                                                   t   N
                                                                                                                                   I   A        3 years
                                                                                                                                   I   T
                                                                                                                                   I   0
                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                               Lower Secondary : ~
                                                                         ~---------------.., ~
                                                                                                                                   I   A
                                                                                                                                                Common                                         '"- ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                   "

                                                                                                                                                                                                   "    .
                                                                                                                                   I E
         Curriculum:
                                                                                                                                   I ~

                                                                                   Upper Primary                                   I ~ 
        9 years
                                                                                                                                   I N
                                                                                                                                   I T
                                                                         ________________ ..J :
                                                                                                                                   I 0
                                                                                                                                   I G
                                                                                                                                   I :
                                                                                   Lower Primary                                   I M                                                             ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .

                                                                                                                                   I ~                                                         ,,"
                                                                                                                                   I I                                                             r, .. ~




                                                                         ~---------------~I ~
                                                                                                                                   I A
                                                                                                  .
                                                                                               BaSlc                               I ~
                                                                                                                                   I 0
                                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                                                   I T
                                                                                                                                   I I
                                                                                                                                   I C
A concerted effort to bring this about is now clearly underway.
through improved staffing. domestic and foreign training for
staff members. and the integration of computers into the work
of the Planning and StatisticsUnits. ' At present. planning in
the ministry and in the principal aid agencies remains hampered
by the deficiency of accurate and timely information. The
uncertainty that is produced by this deficiency of data is
sometimes compounded by ~ lack of consistent coordination and
communication among projects and agencies.

Comprehensive reform will be more feasible when the present
strengthening of the data-gathering and analysis capabilities
of the Ministry is further advanced and as the distinct but
related reform efforts sponsored by various agencies are
brought into closer coordination. The presence of a stronq.
efficient corps of territorial education officers is essential
to any such improvement.

Progress toward several of the goals of secondary school reform
has already been made under the auspices of a number of
different projects. The curriculum for Grades' 7-9 is being
studied by two separate teams sponsored by the IBRD (this study
and the All Age Schools St. Thomas pilot). while the existing
curriculum for teacher education is being reviewed and
standardized by the Joint Board for Teacher Education.
Planning for the extension of the Textbook Rental Scheme to
all-age schools is meanwhile being undertaken by the ODA. the
original sponsors of the scheme: and research in the schools
for students in need of remediation is being undertaken.  The
development of instruments for the National Assessment
Programme for students in the primary grades is well underway.

While the need for improvement in each of these areas is
pressing. the problem of coordination among the various
projects is a critical -issue. and failure to manage the
situation effectively would threaten to make the situation in
Jamaica's secondary' schools even more difficult than it is at
present.  In the absence of careful monitoring and supervision
by the Ministry. for example. (see Appendix A). it is possible
that the textbooks produced for the rental scheme. or the
teacher education curriculum being developed by the JBTE. will
be incompatible with the guidelines for the new common
curriculum that will be developed by the two IBRD teams.

The commitment shown by these groups in responding to critical
needs within the education system is strong. and the study team
is assured that coordination among their efforts is a high
priority within both the Planning Unit and the Projects
Division of the Ministry.




                                                          7-3 

                      *                *                *
 The nine elements of a reform strategy ~re here presented in
 order of the priority we assign to each in the improvement of
 the schools:

 1. The appointment and training of Territorial Education
 Officers are prerequisite to the e~entual success of all
 curricular. planning and other innovations.  2. The completion        .,
 of current efforts to strengthen the central Ministry's
 planning and coordination functions.  3. The adoption of new
 policies in the area of finance and 4. in political control.
 5. Development and adoption of a new common curriculum and 6.
 appropriate textbooks for all students.  7. Major restructuring
 and cutting back of examinations.  B. Provision of in-service
 training for all teachers and 9. instructional delivery at a
 distance for remote rural areas.                                      '"   ,"




 In essence. this summary list suggests that the implementation        .. 

                                                                        -   ,
 of a comprehensive reform of Jamaica's secondary schools will
 have to be managed over an extended period of time: incremental
 reform.
                                                                        -
                                                                            ,,
 Curricular and administrative changes must be phased in before
 changes in the organization and structure of the schools and
 the system can be implemented.  For example. the abolition of
 the Grade 6 selection examination (the Common Entrance) might
 occur only in the fifth or sixth year of reform. followed by
 the free flow of students to their neighborhood secondary
 schools the next year.

  The following sample    charts illustrate the nature of the
  planning that should    be undertaken by planners in the Ministry.
 with the Territorial     Education Officers. if effective
_ implementation is to    take place.  Cross-coordination among the
  charts is absolutely    imperative and is a major responsibility
  of the C.E.O. of the    school program division of the Ministry.

All such charts should be developed. of course, in a
cooperative planning style by central office Units and Regions.
with strong coordination by the CEO.

Each chart should become the framework for the long-range
planning of each Unit and Regional Office - and as the
programme budget framework.  Each chart should be used by the
Planning Unit as a costing tool for the preparation of project
plans for foreign aid.

                  *                    *                *




7-4
                                                                            TIME-PHASED
                                                                IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
                                                                 FOR CURRICULUM REFORM
        GRADE             Year 1                   Year 2             Year 3       Year 4                                          Year 5                       Year 6
          VEL                                       1991                     1992                      1993                         1994                         1995
                  1. Develop scope and 1. Planning and prepa         1. Pilot Implementation 1. Use data collected       1.   Make final revisions.
                  sequence of curricu   ration for Introduction of   of curriculum In a se from formative evalua
                                                                                                                         2 Print materials for
                  lum content for ALL   curriculum In all subject    lected sample of all tion to revise curricu
        GRADE                           areas. eg.teacherwork        school types.                                       widespread distribu
                  subjects.                                                                  lum prior to start of the
                                        shops etc.                                                                       tion.
                  2. Develop detailed                                2   Conduct formative school year.
         7        curriculum guides for
                  ALL subject areas
                                                                     evaluation              2 Full scale Imple
                                                                                             mentation In all
                                                                                             schools.
                                                                                               3. Conduct summa
                                                                                               live evaluation

                 1  Develop scope          1. Develop detailed       1. Planning and pre       1. Pilot Implementation   1. Use data collected        1.   Make final revisions.
                 and sequence of eur       curriculum guides for     paration for the Intro    of curriculum In a se     from formative evalua           Print materials fo(
        GRADE                                                        duction of curriculum     lected sample of all      tion to revise curricu
                                                                                                                                                      2.
                 rlculum content for all   all subjects.                                                                                              widespread distribu
                 subjects.                                           In all subject areas.     school type               lum prior to start of        lion.
                                                                                               (N. B.- same sample       school year.
          8                                                                                    as grade 7)               2. Full scale Imple
                                                                                               2 Conduct formative       mentation In all
                                                                                               evaluation.               schools.
                                                                                                                         3. Conduct summatlve
                                                                                                                         evaluation.
                 1. Develop scope and                                1. Develop detailed       t Planning and pre         1. Pilot Implementation     1. Use data collected
        GRADE    sequence of curricu                                 curriculum guIdes for     paration for the Intro     of curriculum In a se       from formallve evalua
                 lum content for all                                 all subjects.             duction of curriculum      lected sample of all        tion to revise curricu
                 subjects.                                                                     In all subject areas.      school type                 lum prior to start of
          9                                                                                                               (N. B.- same sample
                                                                                                                          as for grades 7 and 8)
                                                                                                                                                      school year.
                                                                                                                                                      2 Full scale Imple
                                                                                                                          ·                           mentation In all
                                                                                                                          2. Conduct formative        schools.
                                                                                                                          evaluation.                 3. Conduct summallve
                                                                                                                                                      evaluation.

        · NOTE: Timing Is based on movement of a class of students across grade levels.


...,J
 I
IJ1
                                                                                                                                                                  Coot-Ch7-010
-I
 I
0'1                                     SAMPLE PLANNING CHART #2                .
                                        OUTliNE FOR IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: CREATION OF JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS
      YEAR           1                   2                      3                         4           5                          6                     7                   8
      EI-EMENT


      PlANNINGI             School map               Continuing Inventories of facilities and
      COORDINATION          completed                personnel by Regional Education Offices

                            Capacity for coordination Increased

      lEO'S                 Establish Regional
                            Education Offices

                                     Supervision/Provision of In-service education

                            Training of TEO's

      CURRICULM             See Implementation Plan attached as Figure 2

      lEXTBOOKS             Extension of rental scheme to AAS

      INSERVICE             Post-certificate PCP In TC's:
                            First Intake,      Second Intake,
                            program In TC's; Second Intake
                            phase 2 phase 2
                            First Intake

                            Continuing In-service for AAS and JHS teachers

      EXAMS                 Grade 6 NAP              Grade 9 NAP developed                                CEE abolished                                                            Grade 9
                            Implemented                                                                   Grade 9 NAP                                                              selection
                                                                                                          Implemented                                                              Implemented
      nrSTANCE EO.          Training of Preparation and field testing of materials
                            staff

      FACILITIES            Facilities Equalization                                                       Consideration
                            Fund established                                                              ofnewTHS

                                     Rehabllatatlon of AAS

                                     Construction/extension of JHS
      ENROLLMENT                                              Consilidation of                      "Free flow·        ·Free flow·       ·Free flow·
                                                              AAS 'Central' schools                 entry to Grade entry to Grade entry to Grade
                                                                                                                      7 in all JHS         8 In all 9 In all JHS
                                                                                                                                                                                     Cook-Chl-011




                 L   c···                    '''so
                                                                .3    t ... ;:..r.   ~.         "
                                                                                                >                 ;;<~   _ .,J       ,[....   -':'~j   .."I~   S:;::::1   t-~·~~   . .)    C,2:..J
·.   


     The following comments may be of help in the preparation of
     planning charts for each of the 9 reform activities. "
         1.  The Appointment and Training bf Territorial Education
             Officers
              This is addressed in some depth in Appendix A. Steps
              have already been undertaken by the government to
              enhance the position within the civil service. A major
              effort to mount a training scheme for new appointees
              and retraining for incumbents should be undertaken.
              Continuous in-service related to policy. curriculum and
              administrative matters (see the proposed charts) should
              be included in the programme budget of the school
              programme division of the Ministry.
         2.  Strengthening of the Planning and Statistics Function
             of the Central Ministry
              In a decentralized Ministry of Education. the
              coordination of planning is more vital than ever. The
              central office must have adequate staff. training and
              communications and computer capability. "There must be
              a close working relationship between the Supervision
              Unit and the Planning Unit - see Appendix E.
         3.  The Adoption of New Policies in Finance
              The discrimination in the present subventions to
              schools must be replaced by a more equitable system.
              The basic policy should be that an equal amount of
              public money should be spent on each child while he or
              she is in the first nine years of school. Exceptions
              should be a matter of compassion for handicapped
              children, or for special and exceptional circumstances.
              such as remoteness or isolation. (see Appendix F)
         4.   The Adoption of New Policies in Political Control
              Appendix F includes not only suggestions for financial
              equalizat~n, but proposals for the inclusion of more
              people in the control of the schools. School boards
              must be given a greater voice in decisions about their
              own  school to accompany "the increased responsibility
              for financial support that they must assume in the
              years ahead. The assistance of the Territorial
              Education Officer will be vital in this regard. One
              safeguard to the integrity of a decentralized system is
              openness - public education must be conducted in
              public, especially with regard to financial matters.



                                                                  7-7 

                                                                      .
                                                                      ,
                                                                          '..




           The roles of officials. both elected and appointed. 

           must be a matter of public record. Minutes of meetings 

           and records of decisions must ~e available for 

           accountability to the public at annual meetings of the 

           community. 

      S.   Development and Adoption of a Common Curriculum
           Chapter 3 and Appendices Band C and Volume II deal
           with specifics of this fundamental issue. The
           production of the necessary curriculum guides must
           precede many of the changes proposed in this study.
           The planning and organizing within the Ministry and the
           schools must centre on the implementation of the common
           curriculum. This should be the main criterion that the
           CEO applies to her or his examination of the planning            .       ,
                                                                                    "



           charts produced by each Unit and Region of the                 ; :"1
                                                                                "




           Ministry; and of each annual plan produced by each 

           school and examined by the Territorial Education 

           Officer. 

      6.   Development and Adoption of Appropriate Textbooks
           The first need is for books for the all-age school
           students - see Appendix D. Until such time as all
           students at all levels of the primary and secondary            ,---,
           schools have suitable books. the present schemes should
           be maintained - the Primary Textbook Plan that involves
           the provision of cheap and locally-developed books for
           every student. and the Secondary Rental Scheme. which
           needs to be expanded and "localized" so that the
           relevance of books to the interests of the students and
           the requirements of the curriculum guides are ensured.
           The temptation at the primary level to approve 'better'
           books that are more expensive and thus out the reach of
           many students should be avoided.
      7.   Restructuring of Examinations
           The alternatives to t~e damage caused to students and 

           the school system by the present examinations are 

           discussed in Chapters 1. 2 and 3 and in some depth. in 

           Appendix G. . The costs alone of the present 

           overemphasis on examinations warrant serious attention 

           to this issue. 


                                                                          .         '




7-8
    8.     In-service Education.
           Chapter 6 outlines recommendations for the continuing
           education and upgrading of teachers and other
           categories of educators. as well as for the recruitment
           of new categories of staff. Please consult Figure 6.1
           (Chapter 6) for the details and the time frame for
           implementation of the plans for teacher education and
           staff development.

    9.     Distance Education

           In spite of administrative reorganization wiih Regional
           Offices and regular visits by T.E.O. 's, there will be
           schools that are too small and remote for the teachers
           and students to participate in opportunities available
           to others. The primary concern is the delivery of
           curricular opportunities to the students.   The Ministry
           will need to revive distance education projects by
           correspondence and radio.  For students and teachers of
           determination. these can be useful if not completely
           satisfactory substitutes for regular schooling.

                     *                 *
A STRATEGIC PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTING REFORM

All the nine elements of a reform strategy that are listed
above should be developed by Ministry officials into charts
like the samples included in the previous section. The charts
need to be organized into an overall plan of action for the
Ministry.  Such a basic critical path or strategic plan is
needed to guide Ministry officials and the school boards.   The
section that follows is intended only as a guide to the
thinking in this study. A feasible strategic plan should be
developed by the people concerned, using 'outside' advice as it
applies:  a simplified implementation strategy document, such
as the sample checklist form at the end of this section should
be prepared. approved by.the Minister of Education. and
distributed to Ministry officials, especially the Territorial
Education Officers. as their basic policy directive for the
next few years.

Progress   towards reform can be measured by using such a
document   as a continuing discussion item at annual general
meetings   of the Territorial Education Officers with all senior
Ministry   officials and the Minister(st of Education.




                                                             7-9 

With such a 'master control document'. the Ministry can take
better charge of policy setting. and planning. not only in
relation to the school boards. and othet educational
institutions and organizations in Jamaica. but to international
agencies and governments. Outside assistance can be
considerably more coherent and relevant in the presence of such        .       ,
a basic strategic plan that is known to all.
                                                                       '"-
                                                                       I::.



                                                                       ,,~.

                                                                           .   ,
                                                                               ,

The following section departs from the usual form of
recommendations in a study such as this. What follows is a
compendium of policy and administrative suggestions for
implementing those proposals in this study that are maior
departures from traditional ways of conducting education in
Jamaica. These suggestions may be of help in interpreting. and
implementing. the fundamental philosophical changes that are
needed to reform the system. The comments are in the general
chronological sequence that must be followed in order to
provide for consistency in reform activities across the entire
school system.
During the school year 1990-91. there are some preparatory
initiatives that should be undertaken to help both educators
and the public make ready for change.
       i)    The recommendations in this report. "Reform of 

             Secondary Education". or. alternatively. the 

             Ministry's proposals for reform. should be the 

             subject of public panel discussions. similar to the 

             public forum that was held at Caenwood in Kingston in 

             the early summer of 1989 at which the UNDP res.earch 

             reports were discussed. Several sessions in major 

             centres throughout Jamaica would be desirable. 

       ii)  Ministry officers should hold direct discussions with 

            representatives of the JTA. the JBTE, the teachers' 

            colleges and the Faculty of Education of UWI, of 

            business. manufacturers arid agricultural 

            representatives, about the proposals for change. 
         FI



       iii)  It will be advisable for ministry officials and 

             perhaps the two Ministers concerned with education to 

             meet with the National Education Council so that 

             understanding of the national strategy is assured, 

             and strengthened by the Council's advice. 





7-10
·. 


       iv)    It would be advisable within the ministry to merge
              the National Assessment Programme staff with the
              Evaluation Unit sta~f. with instructions to implement
              the Grade 6 NAP as the CEE by 1992. Liaison with the
              Curriculum Units, to support the teaching of Science
              and Social Studies through the Territorial Education
              Officers to the schools, would be necessary. An
              announcement to the schools in the fall of 1990 would
              enable all concerned, including the JTA, to mobilize
              to help teachers during the school year 1990-91. The
              distribution of sample exams by the TEO's during the
              school year 1990-91 would also help prepare students
              and teachers to become familiar with the nature of
              the curriculum-based NAP exam. Teaching and testing
              of a few selected topics from the existing Grades 5
              and 6 curriculum guides. rather than an attempt to
              cover all the material in depth. might be best for
              the first one or two years.

       v)     The formal development of the Grade 7, Band 9
              curriculum guides for the new common courses should
              begin in 1990/91. Appendices B, C and D provide
              suggestions for the tone and mode of this process.
              which should be under the control of the ACEO;s of
              the two curriculum units - Core and Tech7Voc - if the
              units have not been merged by the time the process
              takes place.

       vi)    The revision of Ministry sUbventions to the schools
              (see Appendix F) should begin for participating
              schools.

       vii)  The key implementation policy that makes the
             suggested reforms in this study possible, is a
             revised role for the school boards of the nation.
             Jamaica is already moving towards more local
             community support of schools as national finances are
             limited. The school board's ~ole should be
             strengthened.

              As early as possible in 1991. each all-age,
              secondary, comprehensive, technical and high school
              board should be notified of the criteria for adoption
              of the junior high curriculum. The requirements
              should be published also through the media, to assist
              the school boards with the community discussions that
              should precede each board's request to begin working
              towards common junior high status.




                                                              7-11 

                                                                   .. 


       The process of requesting "participating" status
       before being given "approved" status should be
       followed by all schools. although it should be                      · i

       relatively easy for existing high schools. special                 ......1


       emphasis should be placed on the requirement for
       teacher in-service for the new courses of study in                      .. 

                                                                                \
       the seven subjects of the 1ommon curriculum.
       Existing high schools ~ould not. of course. require a
       change of name at the end of the approval process.
       The steps required for gaining "approved" junior high
       school status (the ability to teach the common                      -\
       curriculum) might be as follows:
       a.    The holding of community discussions on the
             desirability of seeking junior high status. and
             the implications for the community.
             Presentations to the people of the community
             should centre around the fact that they are
             being asked to provide more for their school. in
             return for more ownership. The students in a
             community will have first rights to attend their
             local schooL therefore "i t should be the bes t               "    :
             school that the community. with help from the
             ministry. can make it."
             The Territorial Education Officer for the area
             should take part in at least one major community
             meeting where the implications of a school board
             application to the Ministry for permission to
             become a participating school are discussed.
             Local support, whether financial or other.
             supplemented by the Ministry. ~or seats.
             chalkboards. washrooms. etc .· to acceptable
             standards for secondary education. must be
             provided by the community.
                                                                          ,,'   ,



             A school board's application for permission to
             become a participating school must include the
             teachers' and principal's agreement to
             participate in the Ministry in-service programme ..
             It should be emphasized that the new curriculum
             can only be started when students are admitted
             from the local 'community on the basis of the
             revised Common Entrance Exam. Students from
             other communities may be admitted to a
             "participating" or "approved" school only when
             all local students with a right to attend have
             been admitted. Local "pass rates" for the CEE
             should be related to the available places in
             Grades 7, 8 and 9. Thus locally there could be

7-12
students entering Grade 7 who did not attain the
national "mastery" norm on the CEE and who are
therefore auto~atic candidates for remedial
assistance in Grade 7. Such students would
                      I

still have priority over anyone from outside the
community.
A request to become a participating school
should be sent to the Regional Director of
Education, who will in turn ask for a
recommendation from the national implementation
committee (see paragraph ix below). If the
national implementation committee finds:   that
there are no problems with community boundaries
in relation to the areas served by other schools
(using the School Mapping Project data), that
there are no financial problems at the national
level about Ministry support for the school, and
that in-service can be arranged for the teachers
and principal. then "participating" status can
be granted to the school board.
The community can then proceed to improve its
school by whatever means it can, and the
teachers can participate in the in-service
programmes for the new curriculum.
Funding of school improvements may be both local
and Ministry. Local contributions may be in
cash or in kind. and from any sources acceptable
to the school board. The Regional Office of the
Ministry will monitor all finances through the
Territorial Education Officer.
When the- accommodation and in-service
requirements have been met. after one or more
years of preparation. then a formal year of
inspection of the teaching process. using the
new curriculum guides. will take place.
If the Territorial Education Officer certifies
that th~ teaching is satisfactory, then the
principal, the school board chairman and the
territorial education officer .should certify to
the Regional Office that "suitable accommodation
is now available for X number of Grade 7, 8 and
9 students, which is 100\ of the Grade 4, 5 and
6 students in this community" and that "the
teachers and principal have completed the
required in-service courses for the new courses
of study in the common curriculum, and are
teaching the common junior high curriculum
satisfactorily."

                                           i-13
                                                                      .. 


                   "Approved" status will then be granted to the
                   school by the Minister. with the right to
                   include the term Junior High in the name of the
                   school: e.g. - Mount Industry Primary and Junior
                   High School, or Ardenne (Junior and Senior) High
                   School, or Marcus Garvey (Junior and Senior)
                   Technical High School.

                   The process of application by school boards and
                   approved by the Ministry will likely continue
                   throughout the 1990 1 s. The national
                   implementation team will find their job
                   increasingly important as the majority of the
                   school boards implement the common programme and
                   boundary issues become more critical. and as
                   there are a smaller number of schools available
                  -to students who hav~ "passed" the CEE and wish
                   to attend a school outside their own community.

       viii) By September of 1991. it should be known in all
              primary schools that the revised CEE will be used in
             ,January or February of 1992. Hopefully. all schools
             will have known this earlier and will have received
             assistance and advice from both the Ministry and JTA.
             especially with regard to social studies and
             science.   It might be necessary to advise the schools
              to concentrate on some selected topics in those
             curriculum guides fora year or two. because the
             emphasis will have to be on the proper use of
             language in those subjects. as well as in english and
             mathematics. The exam should be directly related to
             the curriculum guide topics.

       ix)    In September of 1991 also, trials of the new                   . :;
              curriculum guides for Grades 7. Band 9 should be
              undertaken. At least 5 schools for each subject                J---)


              guide. should be invited. with their school boardls
              consent. to test topics proposed for the content of
              the guides - five is necessary so that at least one
              each of the various kinds of schools may be tried:
              all-age, new secondary. comprehensive. technical and
              high. Ministry officers should meet with both
              students and teachers to tryout ideas and ga~her
              suggestions for the information of the curriculum              -   '
              guide development committees. Members of the
              committees should also visit the pilot schools to
              test ideas.  pilot schools may be given extra help to
              meet accommodation requirements.




7-14
·.


      x)     Th~  national implementation committee could consist
             of an officer from each of the regional offices
             chaired by a senior· officer from central office. The
             chairman should report direetly to the executive
             committee of the Ministry. through the CEO for school
             programme. The committee should keep all officiaLs
             of the Ministry. particularly the Territorial
             Education Officers. informed by memoranda sent
             through the CEO. of the progress of the junior high
             reform. The names of all "pilot". "participating"
             and Ilapproved" schools should be circulated regularly
             to all officials and published in the media as a
             reminder to ~he nation of the progress of the reform.
      xi)    It would be advisable also. in 1991. to establish a
             national Senior High committee to advise the CEO in
             charge of school programmes on the rationalization of
             senior secondary programmes. This might b~ a joint
             committee with the National Council on Education.
             The CEO. with assistance from the Regional ACEOls.
             should have a draft national plan prepared for
             consideration by the committee. using the School
             Mapping Project data prepared by the Ministry in
             recent years.

               *                *                 *
  There will undoubtedly be many variations from the foregoing
  strategies in the actual implementation of reform. The
  projected activities that are described however. are intended
  to emphasize the need for:
      o      Orchestrated activity by various parts of the Ministry
      o      Public information at various stages of progress
      o      The central role of the Territorial Education Officer
      o      The careful sequencing of events
      o      A careful balance between central and community
             decisions
  The following checklist is an abstract of the strategy outlined
  above. It illust.ates the kind of document that could be in
  the hands of each Ministry officer as reform proceeds.




                                                             7-15 

                                                                        ,   r;
                                                                                        i
                                                                                             .
                                                                            ,~'




                                                                            r"j
                                                                                        .
                                                                                        ,

         THE SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF SECONDARY REFORM
                                                                            ~,


                                                                            :' (
                                                                            .:J
         Policy- Implementation Strategy for Introduction of
                  the Junior High School Curriculum                         ~-,

                                                                                         ;

                                                                                        ~
                                                                            "

-The government policies of equalization of financial suPPort.              ;',..,/


of decentralization of administration. and of community
involvement are incorporated into this incremental strategy for             r ....
curriculum reform.                                                          \.:;.~,t
                                                                                    "
                                                                                         J




Note 1:     The schedule is dependent on:                                   ~

                                                                                        1
                                                                                        ,
             1.    The immediate broadening of the curricular               d
                   relevance of the Common Entrance Examination.
                   and its eventual abolition.                              .i
                                                                                        <
                                                                                        ;
                                                                            ~,



             2.    The readiness for use of new Grade 7. 8 and 9
                   curriculum guides from the Ministry.                          ,,,
                                                                            .~.~~.
Note 2: There will be three designations for schools involved
in implementation of the new junior high programme at various               ,.
times during the period of reform.                                          :           ')
                                                                                        ,I
                                                                                         i
                                                                            C    
       Pilot         A school designated by the Ministry. with the 

       School:       school board's agreemeat. as a try-out school                      \


                     for development of the subjects in the 

                     curriculum of Grades 7. 8 and 9. 

       Participating A school permitted by the Ministry. after a 

       Schoo l:      request from its school board. to try to meet 

                     junior high school standards. 

       Approved      A school that meets the junior high standards. 

       School:       as certified by the Ministry of Education.             ,
                                                                            . -'
                                                                                        .

                     May use the term "Junior High School" in its
                     name.
                                                                            .~          .
School Year                           Activity 
1990-91      0     Public Panel Discussions on the Reform Proposals
             0     Discussions between the Ministry and the National
                     Council on ~ucation
             0     Announce use of NAP Grade 6 Exam as the CEE for
                     1992
             0     Begin Development of Grade 7. 8 and 9 Curriculum
                     Guides
             0     Complete Planning Charts for 9 elements of reform
             0     Recruit SO Remedial teachers and 40 guidance                     .,
                   counsellors
             0     Design and present workships on Remedial
                   Teaching to Remedial teachers
             0     Develop new Post-Certificate programme
             0     Investigate effects of teacher leave policies
             0     Investigate th~ level of training of new
                   secondary teachers
7-16
          o   Design workshops for Territorial Education
              officers
          o   Recruit new Lecturer in Guidance and
              Counselling. Faculty o'f Education

1991-92   o   Complete and publish Junior High curriculum
              guides
          o   Publish "Criteria for Adoption of Junior High
              School Curriculum by School Boards"
                  After community discussions, a formal
                  request to proceed, from the school board to
                  the Ministry.
                  School board to provide adequate
                  accommodation and supplies - with Ministry
                  help.
                  Funding to be both local and Ministry,
                  monitored by the Regional Office. Local
                  funding may be in cash or in kind (labour,
                  supplies, etc.).
                  Successful operation of the school using the
                  new junior high curriculum for one complete
                  school year, certified by the principal. the
                  Territorial Education Officer, and/or a team
                  of Education Officers from Core curriculum,
                  Tech-Voc, etc.
                  A formal resolution by the school board to
                  the Minister of Education, ~tating that the
                  criteria have been met and requesting the
                  Minister's permission to use the term Junior
                  High School in the name of the school.
                  e.g.-"Mount Industry Primary and Junior High
                  School".
          o   Establish special implementation team inside
              Ministry of Education to ensure coordination of
              reform activities.
          o   Establish special study team of Ministry and
              school principals to recommend rationalization
              of senior.high programmes and schools.
          o   Use the Grade 6 N.A.P. test as the CEE in all
              schools.
          o   Begin testing of new curriculum guides in pilot
              schools: high, all-age, comprehensive, new
              secondary, technical.
          o   Begin equalizing sUbventions and grants to
              schools.
          o   Recruit SO new Territo~ial Education Officers
              (TEOs)
          o   Recruit Staff Development Coordinator
          o   Develop diagnostic tests
          o   Design and present Workshop for Workshop leaders
          o   Recruit 14 additional teachers college lecturers
              for the prelim and post-certificate programmes
          o   Present workshops on supervision to Territorlal
              Education officers
                                                                  T   ·




          o   Expand or estabiish library facilities in Junior
              High Schools
          o   Provide materials in reg~onal resource centers
1992-93   o   Continue testing of draft guides in pilot schools
              Select first "participating" schools.
          o   School boards of participating schools ~egin
              upgrading.
          o   Participating schools order books and supplies
              for next year.                                              .    .
          o   Recruit SO additional TEOs and 40 guidance                  .e..,-l


              counsellors
          o   Modification of content in the teacher education            ..
                                                                          "     I
              curriculum                                                  ..
                                                                          ~j
                                                                               f



          o   Recruitment of Distance Teaching Coordinator
          o   Preparation and field testing of Distance
              Teaching Modules for In-Service Education
          o   Design of In-Service Workshops for teachers
          o   Presentation of In-Service Workshops for teachers
          o   Design and present workshops on school-based
              INSET
          o   Continue expansion or establishment of library
              facilities in Junior High Schools
          o   Continue provision of materials in regional
              resource centers
1993-94   o   Begin teaching new cour.es in participating
              schools where preparations are certified
              adequate by principal. board chairman and TEO.
          o   Monitor and evaluate progress in participating
              schools - twice yearly inspection by TEO.
          o   Development and testing of Grade 9 Orientation
              Exam in original pilot schools.
          o   Accept requests from another group of school
              boards to become participating schools.
          o   Develop and test grade 9 orientation exam
          o   Recruit SO additional TEOs and 40 guidance
              counsellors
          o   Recruit teachers college lecturers for the
              training of university-trained graduates without
              certification
          o   Begin In-Service programme via Distance Teaching
          o   Continue presentation of In-Service Workshops
              for teachers
          o   Continue presentation of In-Service workshops on
              school-based INSET
          o   Continue expansion or establishment of library              :,. ;
                                                                               ,
              facilities in Junior High Schools
          o   Continue provision of materials in regional
              resource centers



7-l8
·. 



       1994      o     Permit use of name "high" in successful schools
                       Use orientation Exam in Grade<9 of participating
                       schools.      .
                 o     Repeat cycle of 1)app1ication 2)permission
                       3)upgrading 4)in-service 5) supervision. for new
                       groups of schools.
                 o     Establish the year 2000 as goal for completion
                       of all Gr~des 7. 8 and 9 upgrading to high
                       school status.
                 o     Continue rationalization of senior high and
                       coordination with tertiary and
                       technical/vocational sectors.
                 o     Continue recruitment of 50 TEOs and 40 guidance
                       counsellors
                 o     Continue presentation of In-service Workshops to
                       teachers
                 o     Continue presentation of workshops on
                       school-based INSET
                 o     Continue establishment or expansion of library
                       facilities in Junior High Schools
                 o     Continue provision of materials in regional
                       resources centers



       In Conclusion

   This study was focussed on lower secondary education - Grades
   7. 8 and 9 - but the solutions to many of the problems in the
   schools of Jamaica can only be found in reform of the entire
   system.

   A series of reforms such as those described in the body of this
   study need to be made:  in governing policies. in management
   practices. in the organization of the system. and then. most
   importantly. in teaching practices. Only then can there be
   improvement in the quality of education.

   Reform is needed in the Ministry of Education itself:  in its
   internal organization and lts relationship with the schools. as
   well as its relationships with the Ministry of Finance and the
   Ministry of the Public Service.

   Reform is needed in the discriminating distribution of
   resources to the schools.

   Reform is needed in the examination system which as become
   disproportionately expensive and educationally unsound.




                                                                 7-19 

                                                                                          ~
                                                                                     '.
                                                                                                i

                                                                                          -,
 Reform is needed in the curriculum of Grades 7, 8 and 9 to 

 provide for a nine-year curriculum for all students, so that 
                           ....... 

 Grades 1 to 9 provide equal opportunit~ for all as well as a                                   i

 balanced foundation of basic knowledge, skills and attitudes                             ..J
 for Jamaicans in the twenty-first century.
                                                                                          ~-,


                                                                                                 !
 Reform is needed in the supervisory practices in the schools to                          ~
                                                                                                J
                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                I

 ensure equitable teaching to thl students. 
                                                                                          ,.
                                                                                                1
 Reform is needed in the teaching methods in many of the
 classrooms, with each teacher supported by a renewal
 administrative system at the school, regional and national
                                                                                          -     ;


 levels.                                                                                  r",
                                                                                                ;
                                                                                          :"1
                'Ii\'                   'Ii\'               'Ii\'

                                                                                          ':'"[
 The nine years of common studies recommended in this study are 
                                                                                          t". )
                                                                                                t
 roughly equivalent to three of the developmental stages of 

 children that have been identified in educational research. 

 using Piagetian terminology, these are:                                                  , '\
                                                                                                    :

                                                                                                "

                                                                                          "    ~)


 ages 4-8:     pre-operational                   language development and the
                                                 symbolism that contributes to            ,. )
                                                                                               .;
                                                 that development.                              '.

                                                 no real sense of past or
                                                 future, limited experiences.
 ages 8-12:    concrete operations               beginning of ability to 

                                                 organize ways to do things 

                                                 beyond the immediate goal. 

                                                 some conception of 

                                                 conservation and reversibility. 

                                                 some ability to think of the 

                                                 future and of consequences. 

'ages 12-16:            formal operations        the ability starts to do
                                                 hypothetical reasoning.                  .     ,

These three stages in child development correspond to the lower 

primary, the upper primary and the lower secondary stages of 

the school system. The post-formal-operations stage of young 

adulthood can be considered senior secondary. 

The teachers' colleges of Jamaica might consider the use of 

these stages as areas of concentration in their programmes. 

Teachers' certificates might reflect the special skills that 

they have been trained for in teaching these age groups of 

children. For example, teachers could be trained in two of 

these four areas, in effect creating primary teachers, 

secondary teachers. and a group trained for the upper primary 

and lower secondary. The new group would be particularly 

useful in helping children with the transition from the 


7-20
..



  one-teacher model of the primary school to the more impersonal.
  multi-teacher model of the secondary school. Principals and
  supervisory officers. through in-service courses. could
  eventually be required to have train~ng in all four stages of
  child development.

  But changes such as those just mentioned must await the
  restructuring and revitalization of the system.

    Likewise. curriculum ~evision of the senior secondary grades
    will be needed soon after a common curriculum is adopted in
    Grades 7, 8 and 9:  the Basic Skills Programme underway since
    1984 in technical schools at the senior secondary level will
    reach its full potential only if the earlier years of schooling
    can be revitalized; relationships between the tech/voc in the
    school system and a much needed national training board will
  . have to be clarified; a new attempt is needed to cluster Sixth
    Form classes to improve- quality and efficiency; cooperation
    with the Caribbean Examination Council will be needed.

               *                *                 *
  The common belief among all the consultants who have
  contributed to this study is that a democracy ~equires an
  education system that provides opportunity for all people 
  genuine opportunity which is free of discrimination and free of
  arbitrary selection by those in authority.

  The system must become more fair.  This statement comes out of
  the analysis that the team has done of conditions in the
  schools, and underlies all the recommended changes.  Since the
  end of colonial rule in 1962, the valiant efforts that have
  been made to provide education for all have been piecemeal and
  have been subverted by a misguided search for excellence. The
  emphasis on quality edu~ation for the select few has led to
  elitism, and self-seeking by the elite few has led to the
  neglect of responsibility to others.  The understandable haste
  in a developing nation has created layers of privilege in the
  schools that are reflections of, and that are reflected in, the
  Jamaican society. The reforms suggested here are designed to
  break that cycle.

  Each student, at each· stage of the public school system, must
  be treated as a deserving individual. Each ~ust be supported
  with educational opportunities equivalent to those available to
  theories.   The theories and practices of education, for the
  nine years of the common school, must be consistently related
  to the classrooms where teachers need both support and
  direction as they help every student.

  When the system has been reformed. and when a new curriculum is
  in place. then the on-going pursuit of the schools can become a
  search for quality instruction for every child.

                                                             7-21
.. 





       .,
       .;




       J
Appendix A
                                    I

THE ROLE OF THE EDUCATION OFFICER

The Education Officer of the Ministry of Education may be
thought of as the human embodiment of the curriculum guides of
the ministry. as well as the ombudsman for the student in the
school system. By this is meant that the chief priority of the
education officer is the improvement of instruction: helping
teachers to imple~ent the ideas in the curriculum guides while
improving the learning opportunities for the students.
It should be the duty of each education officer to carry out
all of her or his many tasks in the light of what is best for
the students in the schools. according to the polici~s of the
Ministry of Education.

                         *     *        *
The Minister of Education is the representative.of the elected
government who is chosen by the Prime Minister to see that the
laws and the government policies in the field of education are
implemented. The minister carries the ultimate responsibility
for education in the country: It is the Minister and the
Minister of State who bear the responsibility for recommending
changes in the law and regulations. who arbitrate among choices
that may be made under the law. and who are responsible for the
implementation of policies. A distinction must be made between
the Minister of Education. on the one hand. and the Ministry of
Education. of which he or she is the head. on the other.
The Ministry is the organization that is needed to carry out
the policies of the state. The civil servants who carryon the
business of providing services for students. parents and the
general public, must work within the Education Act. the Code of
Regulations and government policies within the law. Their
basic loyalty is to the law .
                ·
The Minister and the Minister of State for Education are
servants of the law also. although with special duties and
powers. It is their special au~hority under the law that they
share with education officers. It is this special authority,
and the responsibility for other people that accompanies that
authority, that requires a special place in the civil service
for education officers.




                                                          8A-l
                                                                   '.   ,-    I

                                                                        "-':


                                                                        ,..~




                                                                        ~--
Each officer should be individually appointed by the Public
Service Commission appointed by the Governor General on the             ;1
advice of the Government.  Recommendat~ons to the Commission as              I
to whom should be appointed should be made by the Minister on           ~_l
the advice of the Permanent Secretary for Education, with
regard to the highest levels of competency but without regard           -1
                                                                            -j
to sex, creed, race or politics.                                        -- ;
A special category should be set up in the civil service                -,,
classification system to compensate these individuals                         I
                                                                              ,
adequately, comparable to the status and remuneration accorded          -    I


other professionals in the civil service such as lawyers- and           ... ,..
doctors.                                                                    ,!
                                                                        ,';,
If the Ministry of education curriculum guides are seen as the
vertebrae in the backbone of Ministry policies, then the
education officers are the nerve network of the education
system.

Models for such a system may be found in the corps of Her
Majesty's Inspectorate in Britain, particularly during the
period between World War I and World War II and to about 1965.
A similar group, the area school inspectors, were largely
instrumental in developing the quality of Canadian education,                 ,
                                                                        -   -'
particularly in Ontario 'and the western provinces, from about
1880 to 1950.  These role models have-been chosen because both          :   ')
groups, in their best manifestations, were not only inspectors
of schools, but were leaders in the in-service training of
teachers, and evaluators of the work of students and teachers.

                           '"     '"
The following criteria should be considered in the selection,
training and assignment'of duties of education officers who are
to be both supervisors and curriculum leaders:

Selection of Education Officers

     o   Demonstrated respect for young people and dedicated to
         their education; broad range of teaching experience
         both primary and sec~ndary preferred; out-of-country
         experience an asset; non-educational experience an
         asset.

     o   Excellent quali:ications:  master's deg~ee or higher
         including teacher training; substitution of specialized
         training in some cases.

     o   Personal characteristics:  integrity, "presence,"
         commitment to the development of each individual,
         demonstrated ability, knowledge of philosophies of
         education, loyalty to the nation.


8A-2 

·.


     ~raining    of Education Officers
         o      A special training pr·ogramme to be designed for
                incumbents and candidates (s~e Chapter 6) including:
                supervisory techniques: curriculum awareness, time
                management: information system usage.
         o      Internship programme: accompany a good role-model
                officer while he or she performs his or her duties for
                two to four weeks.
         o      In-service: short courses: exchanges with Teachers'
                College and university Faculty of Education staff:
                overseas exchanges and courses.
     Duties of Education officers
         lao Advocate for students:      individuals and groups.
          b.  Improvement of Instruction: in-service planning and
              leadership based on Ministry of Education guides, with
              teachers and principals.
          c. Classroom observation and reporting to School Boards
             and Regional Office: twice yearly per teacher.
          d.  School administration monitoring and reporting to
              School Boards and Regional Office.
         2.  Teacher certification and upgrading: recommending for
             certificates: recommending for salary raises to School
             Boards and Regional Office.
         3.  School Administration: assessing, recommending and
             "reporting to School Boards and Regional Office.
         4.  School Maintenance: assessing, recommending and
             reporting to School Boards and Regional Office.
         5.  School Board functioning: ex-officio member of school
             boards in assigned territory: reporting to Boards on
             school functioning: reporting to School Board and
             Regional Office of school board functioning.
        6.  Assisting with planning for school. school board and
            board needs: teachers, courses. books, supplies,
            equipment, accommodation.
        7.  Providing information: to teachers, principals, school
            boards, area boards, regional office, central office,
            public (public speaking) and cooperating with community
            agencies.

                                                                   BA-3
                                                                   .. 


     S.  C~llecting and disseminating data:   re students.
         teachers. schools. boards. etc.                                  ~
                                                                          . )     .
                                                                          . !
     9.  Monitoring finances:   schools. school boards.                   :..:.J

     10. Recommending solutions: to students, to teachers, to
         principals, to school boards. to region~l d~rector. to
         public groups. Including. in exceptio~Gl
         circumstances. recommending to the School Board and the          ""'.~

         Ministry the revocation of a teacher's certificate for                    ,
                                                                          ..... ;
         malpractice: and recommending to the Ministry the 

         suspension of subventions to a School Board for 

         malfeasance. 

The  customary operating mode of an Education Officer should be
one of enabling other people to function better: discussion, 
             ,       !


questioning, and listening; the gathering of information, 

observation of practice, patient persuasion, and good humour 
with students. teachers, principals, board members, and the 
             '.       ~ 



public. Only as a last resort should the use of authority be
resorted to by an officer. 

The Education Officer at all times remembers that he GZ she is            :       ...
representing the Minister - acting on behalf of the parents               ~ :;j

whose children are in the care of the school.
The  guiding principle of the corps of Education Officers is:
                 "The Improvement of Instruction"




See also: "Monitoring and Supervisfon" in Volume lIre
Tech/Voc Education and Chapter 6: - "Teacher Education and
Staff Development: in Volume I.                                           .....    ;




SA-4 

,.   .




      Appendix B
      THE DEVELOPMENT OF CURRICULUM GUIDES FOR THE SEVEN SUBJECTS OF
      THE COMMON JUNIOR HIGH PROGRAMME

      A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
      Curriculum Guide for AESTHETICS
      This document is intended for use by the chairperson and
      members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of
      Education to develop a curriculum guide in the area of
      "Aesthetics" in the junior high programme.
          1.  The Aesthetics committee should meet at the same time as
              the committees developing the other six guides in the areas
              of study recommended for students in lower secondary
              schools: Language Arts, Maths, Science, Technology
              Studies. Social Studies. and Personal & Family Studies.
             The committee should not miss the opportunity to develop
             modules of work that are integrated with the other subject
             fields and which can be taught cooperatively by teachers or
             worked on cooperatively by students in more than one
             subject field.
      2.  "Aesthetics" should continue the same emphases as the
          curriculum guides for Grades 1 to 6. Students should have
          regular opportunities to:
             o   Engage in activities such as art, music, dance and
                 drama.
             o   Express their own inventiveness and problem solving
                 abilities.
             o   Respond emotionally and intellectually to particular
                 objects.
             o   Be engaged in rituals and traditions associated with
                 the cultural forms and symbols of Jamaica.
      3.  Activities such as art. music. dance and drama should be
          part of the regular timetabled curriculum as well as
          after-school exhibitions and performances for parents and
          the community. In addition. the committee should plan
          integrated activities in modules of work with the other
          curriculum committees. particularly Social Studies.
          Language Arts. and Personal and Family Studies.


                                                                      6B-1 

                                                                       "   .



                                                                                    .t.. ·.
4.  The curriculum guide that is developed for Aesthetics
    should contain sections sucn as the following:
                                          I

     1)  Introduction: a brief rationale for Aesthetics for 

         students aged 12 to 15. including the statement that 

         the teacher of Aesthetics, in common with all other 

         teachers of a student, sh~res responsibility for 

         teaching the proper u;e ot language. and responsibility 

         towards the environment. 

                                                                                ,             !


     2)  Timetable provisions: 5 periods per week with regular 

         attention to each of the sub-areas of art, music, dance 

         and drama. 
                                                           '<

     3)  Some suggested teaching strategies and learning 

         activities that allow for student-directed and 

         initiated activity so that the teacher becomes an 

         enabler rather than instructor. The use of community 

         resource people should be encouraged. 

     4)  Suggested year by year work for Grades 7, 8. and 9. 

         organized around themes that lend themselves to 

         integration among the sub-areas of Aesthetics as well 

         as integration with other subject areas of the 

         curriculum. 

                                                                                -            .
     5)  A few s ta tements of advice to teac·hers about sui table 
                 <   '




         materials. sources of information and ways to use 

         materials and ideas for students of these ages. 

     6)  A section on appropriate evaluation practices with 

         suggestions and examples based on some of the suggested 

         themes of work. 

5.  It will not be as necessary in the Aesthetics guide as in
    the other curriculum areas to include suggestions for
    teaching strategies to different achievement levels of                      ..           .~

    students based on their reading ability. Aesthetics should 
                                                                                     "




    be a time of the school day when self-expression with the
    body, with various media. with oral communication all
    become acceptable means of achievement. Each student
    should gain confidence through her or his sUbjective
    expression of reality, particularly in art. In the themes
    and activities surrounding the production of plays. in the
    presentations of dances. through participation in choral
    work. students of all ability levels can take part in some
    productive activity.                                                        ....         ~

                                                                                             ,
                                                                                :...-:




8B-2 

·. 


       A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
       Curriculum Guide for MATHEMATICS
   This document is intended for use by ~he chairperson and
   members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of
   Education to develop a curriculum guide in the area of
   Mathematics in the junior high programme.
   l.  The Mathematics committee should meet at the same time as
       the committees developing the other six guides in the area
       of study recommended for students in the junior high
       programme: Language Arts. Science. Technology Studies.
       Social Studies. Personal & Family Studies. Aesthetics!
          The opportunities must not be missed to develop modules of
          study that are integrated with other subject fields and
          which can be taugh~ cooperatively by teachers or worked on
          cooperatively by students in more than one subject field.
   2.  Mathematics should continue the same emphases as the
       curriculum guides for Grades 1 to 6. Students should have
       regular opportunities to:
          o   Carry out practical activities involving measuring.
              calculating. grouping, deciding on appropriate
              operations and formulas. data collecting and
              manipulating. etc.
          o   Collaborate with each other in the solving of problems
              from mathematics. science. technology studies. and
              geography particularly.
          o   Drill and practice the fundamental number facts and the
              four operations.
   3.  The S-period limit per week must be stressed but there
       should be emphasis in the guide on cooperative work between
       other subjects.




                                                                 BB-3 

                                                                     I.




4.  The guide should contain sections such as the following:
     1)  Introduction: a brief rationaYe for mathematics to 

         students aged 12 to 15, including a statement that the 

         teacher of Mathematics shares responsibility, with all 

         other teachers of a student, for the teaching of the 

         proper use of language, and responsibility towards the 

         environment. 

                                                                          1'.';
                                                                                \
                                                                                .
     2)  Timetable provisions: the 5 period limit with the                ;
                                                                          ,


         applications of mathematics across the curriculum.
     3)  A statement that every teacher is a teacher of English 

         and that the highest priority is to help students do 

         their maths in standard English. 

                                                                          .' ,
                                                                                 "
     4)  Some descriptions of the three major types of 

         activities that students should engage in: assignment 

         or project activities: new lessons, and drill and 

         practice in order to maintain skill in the use of the 

         number facts and the four operations. 

     5)  The suggested year by year work of Grade 7, Grade a and 

         Grade 9, arranged in modules, and preferably in themes, 

         including environmental issues. 

     6)  A few statements of advice, and examples. about 

         activities. materials and samples of exercises 

         appropriate for the modules of work outlined in the 

         courses. 

     7)  There should be a statement about appropriate 

         evaluation practices. 

S.  There should be samples of exercises and descriptions of
    strategies to help teachers deal with the diverse levels of
    aChievement of students entering Grade 7 from the primary 
           .',



    schools.                                                              ,     )





SB-4 

A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
Curriculum Guide for SCIENCE

This document is intended for use by the chairperson and
members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of
Education to develop a curriculum guide in the area of Science.
in the junior" high programme.

l.  The Science committee should meet at the same time as the
    committees developing the other six guides in the areas of
    study recommended for students at the jun~or high school
    level: Langua.ge Arts. Maths, Social Studies, Technology
    Studies. Aesthetics and Personal & Family Studies.

    The opportunity must not be missed to develop modules of
    study that are integrated with other subject fields and
    which can be cooperatively taught by teachers or worked on
    cooperatively by students in more than one subject field.

2.  Science should continue the same emphasis as the curriculum
    guides for Grades 1 to 6.  Students should have regular
    opportunities to:

    o   be involved in activities that include measuring.
        observing. analyzing, collecting, comparing, etc.

   o    cooperate with each ~ther while working to solve
        problems in science, technology studies, mathematics,
        social studies, aesthetics

3.  There should be five (S) periods per week devoted to
    Science. The opportunities for integration with other
    subjects should be included in the modules of study
    prepared for Science .




                ·




                                                            BB-S 

                                                                     .. 


4.  The curriculum guide for science should include sections
    such as the following:                                                   '" :.
                                                                             t·
                                                                                        ;
                                        I

     1)  Introduction: a brief rationale for the teaching of 

         science to 12 to 15 year old students. 

     2)  A statement that every te~cher is a teacher of standard 

         English and is expected to help each child master the 

         proper use of English. and responsibility toward the 

         envircnment. 

     3)  Timetable Provisions: the 5 period requirement and the 

         existence of science topics merged into some of the 

         modules of study in other subjects such as those 

         mentioned above in No.2. 

     4)  A section should be included on suitable kinds of 

         activities for the students~ practical and applied 

         activities from assignment cards; new lessons; research 

         from textbooks and other sources. 

     5)  The suggested year by year work for Grade 7. Grade S 

         and Grade 9. 

                                                                            '-"    ;
     6) . A few statements of advice and examples related to the 

          modules of work in each of the courses for each grade 

          about materials. and activity (assignment) cards. 

     7)  Some advice and suggestions about suitable evaluation 

         practices in Science. 

S.  A statement should be included with advice to teachers on
    dealing with the wide variations in levels of achievement
    of students entering Grade 7 from the primary schools .




                             ·


                                                                            '..; .' i




SB-6 

,   .

        A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
        Curriculum Guide in TECHNOLOGY STUDIES
        This document is intended for use by the chairperson and
        members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of
        Education to develop a curriculum guide in Technology Studies.
        1.  The Technology Studies commit~ee bhould meet at the same
            time as the committees developing the other six guides in
            the areas of Language Arts. Maths. Science. Social Studies,
            Aesthetics and Personal & Family Studies.
            The opportunities must not be missed to develop modules of
            work that are integrated with other subject fields and
            which can be taught cooperatively by teachers or worked on
            cooperatively by students in more than one subject field.
        2.  Technology Studies should continue the same emphasis as
            those in the curriculum guides in Grades 1 to 6 with regard
            to activities. cooperative work. exploration and analysis.
            The course in this subject would:
            o   Use a thematic approach.
            o   Use modules of learning selected from the present
                topics of Agriculture. the Crafts topics of Art and
                Crafts. Business Education. and Industrial Arts.
            o   Require only simple applications of technology using
                readily available materials from the environments of
                the students.
            o   introduce the concepts and skills of" planning,
                measuring. operating. assembling. recording. using
                instructions. evaluating results - systematically
            o   concentrate on the major technological inventions that
                support our civilization. the inventors and their
                methods of work .
        3.  The great technological inventions that support our
            civilization should form the basic core of the course over
            the three years of Grade 7. 8 and 9: the lever, the wheel.
            bridges, boats. engines, etc .· from basic technologies ~o
            the microprocessor. Inqluded also should be the concept of
            technology as systematic planning. including responsibility
            toward the environment.
           With the foregoing general principle in mind. topics should
           be selected from the sources listed above: Agriculture.
           Crafts. Business Education. and Industrial Arts, as well as
           appropriate ideas from any useful sources.


                                                                     BB-7
                                                                     .. 


     There should be major attention paid to cooperative work
     with students in Science and Mathematics. Cooperative                          .!
     activity projects can be found in "~mprovisations in                   · 1
                                                                            ~,

     Science. A Handbook for Teach~rs" by HoLung and
     Mitchelmore. Min. of Education. Jamaica. 1981.                             ·
                                                                                    .
                                                                                    .;



4.  The curriculum guide should contain sectionf such as the
    following:

     1)  Introduction:  a brief rationale for Technology Studies 

         for students aged 12 to 15. 


     2)  A statement that the teacher of Technology Studies is 

         responsible for the level of language used in her or 

         his classes and must help each student use standard 

         English. 


     3)  Timetable provisions:   five (5) periods per week.

     4)  Suggested teaching strategies and learning activities              ·       I
         that develop a student's awareness of the skills of
         technological thinking and doing.

     5)  Suggested year by year work for Grade 7. Grade 8 and                   ·   ,
         Grade 9.

     6)  A few statements of advice to teachers about suitable 

         materials. sources of information. and suitable ways to 

         use textbooks approved for these grades. 


     7)  A section on appropriate evaluation practices with 

         suggestions and examples based on some of the modules 

         in the guide. 


5.  It will be necessary to include in the curriculum guide
    suggestions for teaching to three achievement levels of
    students.  Students entering Grade 7 will have widely
    varying capability to do the work.  Teaching strategies can 
           ...     ;


    be devised and samples offered ln the curriculum guide to 

    show how various modules can be adapted to students who can 

    read well. those who read with difficulty and those who can 

    read little if at all. 


     There should be enough practical work in Technology Studies
     however. that the evaluation of a student's achievement in
     this subject should be dependent (only partly) on the
     ability to read.
                                                                                .
                                                                            ,· ..




8B-8 

A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
Curriculum Guideline for LANGUAGE ARTS

This document is intended for use by the chairperson and
members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of
Education to develop a curriculum guide in the area of Language
Arts.

1.  The Language Arts committee should meet at the same time as
    the committees developing the other six guides in the areas
    of study recommended for students in lower secondary
    schools: Math, Science, Technology Studies, Aesthetics,
    Personal & Family Studies, and Social Studies.

    The opportunities must not be missed to develop modules of
    study that are integrated with other subject fields and
    which be taught cooperatively by teachers or worked on
    cooperatively by students in more than one subject field.

2.  Language Arts should continue the same emphases as the
    curriculum guides for Grades 1 to 6.   Students should have
    regular opportunities to listen, to speak, to read and to
    write.   See the appendix to this document on Standard
    English and Creole.

   In Grade 8 or Grade 9, depending on the ability of the
   school to offer it, one foreign language, preferably
   Spanish, may be offered.

3.  No more than five (5) periods per week should be on the
    timetable for Language Arts, including a foreign language.
    However, the use of language in all other subject areas
    should be consciously planned and evaluated by teachers.
    The use of language in all subjects, both oral and written,
    by students and teachers should be a topic of assessment by
    principals and Territorial Education Officers when they
    observe in classrooms.




                                                            BB-9 

                                                                  .. 



4.  The curriculum guide that is developed for Language Arts
    should contain sections such as the following:
                                                                         i:i
    1)  Introduction: a brief rationale for Language Arts for
        students aged 12 to 15. including the role of Creole.
    2)  Timetable provisions: the five period limit and the 

        expectation that l~nguage will be taught across the 

        curriculum by teachers of all subjects. 

    3)  Listening. speaking. reading and writing topics and 

        suggested activities and exercises. 

    4)  Suggested year by year work for Grade 7. Grade 8 and 

        Grade 9. 

    S)  A few statements of advice to teachers about suitable            '''.,

        materials. sources and suitable ways to use the
        textbooks approved for these grades.
    6)  A section on appropriate evaluation practices with 
             '   .
        suggestions and examples. 

    7)  A section on the requirements and the pedagogy of 

        teaching a foreign language. 

S.  It will be necessary to include suggestions for teaching to
    three ability groups of students in the curriculum guides.
    The students who enter Grade 7 will be widely different in
    their ability to do the Grade 7 work. There should be
    practical suggestions about classroom management and about
    various kinds of suitable content and teaching strategies
    that suit students who can read. those who have trouble
    reading. and those who can read little if at all. Teachers
    of Language Arts should be prepared to work cooperatively
    with teachers of other subjects who also have
    responsibility for their students' aChievement in language.
                                                                         '. -J




BB-1e
Appendix:   "Talking Creole/writing English"
The fundamental problem created in the schools by the Standard
English versus Creole situation is th~t Creole is used. to
varying degrees. in much of the daily communication in"
classrooms, while the written work and the examinations which
are the dominant feature of the curriculum, are conducted
exclusively in Standard English.
The practice of "talk in Creole - write in English" produces
abysmally poor results when the ability to write Standard
English is used as the criterion for success. English must be
treated as a second language in the lower primary grades."
Testing in the new National Assessment Programme should take
into account the enlightened policy of the primary reading
teachers espoused by the National Association of Teachers of
Enilish in Jamaica: the reception years of Grades 1, 2 and 3
should be treated as a time of transition for students, where
their teachers consciously and carefully accept oral
communication in Creole, while at the same time, conducting
more and more classes in Standard English.
The diagnostic testing in September of Grade 4 that is
recommended elsewhere in this report as part of the National
Assessment Programme should be designed to ascertain a
student's aChievement in Standard English. but care should be
taken that the Creole speaking child is not made to feel
inferior.
The child should be told that he or she is just" moving towards
the superior ability to speak two languages. Creole and
English, while learning to write in the major common language
of the world which is English.
"Over the past 25 year English has emerged as the werld's
premier international language. It is the main language of
international business, diplomacy, the travel industry, banking
and finance, the arts, advertising and a variety of specialist
professions. Over 60% of the world's scientists are able to
read English; 70% of the world's mail is written in English and
80% of all the information in the world's electronic retrieval
systems is stored in ~nglish." from English: A World
Commodity" by McCallen, Brian; The Economist-, Sept. 1, 1989.




                                                           8'8-1:' 

                                                                   .. 


A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
Curriculum Guideline for PERSONAL AND FAMILY STUDIES
This document is intended for use by the chairperson and
members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of                h,'t
Education to develop a curriculum guide in the subject area               ·         !


"Personal & Family Studies".                                              '·'1




1.  The ~Personal & Family Studies" committee should meet at
    the same time as the committees developing the other six
    guides in the areas of study recommended for all students
    in all lower secondary schools: Language Arts. Maths.
    Science. Technology Studies. Aesthetics and Social Studies.
                                                                          ";- \


     The committee must not miss opportunities to develop
     modules of study that are integrated with other subject
     fields and·which can be taught-cooperatively by teachers or
     worked on cooperatively by students in more than one
     subject field.
2.  "Personal & Family Studies" should continue the emphases                  , !


    found in the curriculum guides for Grades One to Six under
    the headings of 1) Physical Education. 2) Health
    Education. and 3) Guidance. Selected topics from the
    present Home Economics guide related to modules of work
    that should be outlined in the curriculum guide: Food &
    Nutrition. Clothing & Textiles. Family Life. Resource
    Management. and Social Issues.
    The curriculum committee should develop modules that
    integrate as much content as possible from among the
    sub-areas in order to include important basic concepts from
    al~ the former subjects areas in the limited time available
    on the timetable. For example the present Guidance. Home
                                   J
                                                                          ,     j
    Economics and Health syllabi contain overlapping topics.
3.  There should be five (5) periods per week on the timetable
    for Personal & Family Studies in each of Grades 7, 8, and 9.




8B-12 

    The curriculum guide should contain enough modules-of work
    that a student will study approximately 2S\ of her or his
    time in each of the sub-areas of Personal & Family Studies.
                                       /


For example. 2 periods per week of Phys. Ed. (or three 1/2
              periods per week) emphasizing care of one's body
             'through exercise

               1 period per week of Health Ed .· emphasizing
               personal hygiene and sex education

               1 period per week of Guidance, e'mphasizing family
               life'

               1 period per week of Guidance. emphasizing careers
               such as tourism

The Territorial Education Officers will expect to see the Daily
Plan Book of each teacher when tney visit each classroom at
least twice each school year. and will check for the proper
distribution of modules of work among the sub-areas of Personal
& Family Studies.
4.  The curriculum guide that is developed for Personal &
    Family Studies should contain:

    1)   a.)   A brief rationaIe for students aged 12 to lS.
               focusing on the development of self-awareness.
               personal and social value development. good
               attitudes and habits, including sex education.

         b)    A brief rationale for Home Economics for 12 to lS
               year old. emphasizing family studies.' and
               including the statement that the teacher of
               Personal & Family Studies shares responsibility
               for teaching the proper use of language. and
               responsibility toward the environment .



                  ·





                                                               8B-13 

                                                                      -        j




     2)  Timetable provlslons: the 5-period limit and the
         requirement that all sub-areas will be covered.             .-,
                                                                          ..
                                                                          ...
                                                                          ,   ,:
                                                                      !..j
     3)  A series of modules of work. at least 2 or 3 for each
         of the sub-areas. with integration of activities             ,"1
         between sub-area~ wherever possible. and integration
         with other subject areas such as Social Studies and.
         Aesthetics as possible.
     4)  Suggested modules for Grades 7. Band 9.
     5)  A few statements of advice to teachers about suitable 

         materials. sources of information, and suitable ways to 

         teach the content of the sub-areas. 

     6)  A section on appropriate evaluation methods, with           .. t
         suggestions and examples for some of the modules.
5.  It will be necessary ,to include in the curriculum guide
    suggestions for teaching to three achievement levels of                   .,
    students.
     The students who enter Grade 7 will differ widely in their
     ab~lity to do Grade 7 work.  There should be practical
     suggestions about classroom management and about various
     kinds of content and teaching strategies that suit students
     who can read, those who have difficulty reading, and those      .         i
     who can read little if at all.
     In Personal & Family Studies, the personal growth of a 

     student in self-awareness and sociability are the major 

     criteria for evaluation. with written work forming only a 

     part of the overall assessment. In Home Economics, 

     evaluation may take more concrete forms as practical

     activities should be stressed . 
                                ··



                             ·




                                                                      , :
                                                                     . _.10'
                                                                      ~




BB-14 

·. 


   A suggested "consistency control" document for developing a
   Curriculum Guide in SOCIAL STUDIES
   This document is intended for use by the chairperson and
   members of a curriculum committee appointed by the Ministry of
   Education to develop a curriculum guide in the area of Social
   Studies.
   1.  The Social Studies committee should meet at the same time
       as the committees developing the other six guides in the
       areas of study recommended for students in lower secondary
       schools: Language Arts. Maths. Science. Technology
       Studies. Aesthetics and Personal & Family Studies.
       The opportunities must not be missed to develope modules of
       work that are integrated with other subject fields and
       which can be taught cooperatively by teachers or worked on
       cooperatively by students in more than one subject field.
   2.  Social Studies should continue the same emphasis as the
       curriculum guides for Grades 1 to 6. Students should have
       regular opportunities to
       o   Acquire knowledge of their physical. social. political.
           economic and cultural environments.
       o   Organize and use information for problem solving and
           decision making based on inquiry and reasoning and
           taking relevant values into account.
       o   Work in groups in order to develop interpersonal and
           participation skills needed as members of a democratic
           society
       o   Examine critically prevailing societal attitudes and
           values. including their own.
  3.  The wholistic nature of knowledge and the pervasive
      applications of skil.ls should be emphasized in the design
      of the programme. communication skills from Language Arts
      are integral to a Social Studies programme; much
      mathematical data is need in Social Studies. especially in
      tables and graphs; inquiry skills are-shared with Science;
      technological developments and the nature of art forms are
      pervasive in Social Studies; a concentration on
      environmental studies is most appropriate.
       Integrated modules can be designed cooperatively with most
       of the other subject committees.




                                                             BB-15 

                                                                     .. 



     Religious Education should be a component of Social Studies 

     with an emphasis on personal values and responsibility 

     towards others. 
                  I



     There should be an emphasis on Jamaica in Grade 7, Jamaica
     in the Caribbean in Grade 8 and Jamaica in the World in 
              ~.


     Grade 9. with geography and history correlated. 

     particularly map work. statistics and e onomic studies. 

4.  The curriculum guide that is developed for Social Studies
    should contain sections such as the following:
     1)  Introduction: a brief rationale for Social Studies for
         students aged 12 to 15.                                            ·.. j


     2)  A statement that the Social Studies teacher is also a 

         teacher of Standard English and must meet the needs of 

         each student in her or his classes in this regard as a 

         priority, as well as responsibility toward the 

         environment. 

     3)  Timetable provisions:   five (5) periods per week
     4)  Suggested teaching strategies and learning activities 

         that develop information processing. decision making 

         and group participation. 

     5)  Suggested year by year work for Grade 7. Grade 8 and               . i

         Grade 9. arranged in modules with a theme for each
         module. and some examples of how geography, history and
         civics can be integrated. Religious education themes.
         especially values. can be integrated as the committee
         wishes.                                                            '.. j



     6)  A few statements of advice to teachers about suitable 

         materials. sources of information and suitable ways to 

         use textbooks approved for these grades. 

     7)  A section on appropriate evaluation practices with 

         suggestions and examples based on some of the modules 

         in the guide. 





8B-16 

·.   


     5.  It will be necessary to include in the curriculum guide
         suggestions for teaching to three aChievement levels of
         students. The students who enter Grade' will differ
         widely in their ability to do Gra~e , work. There should
         be practical suggestions about classroom teaching
         strategies that suit students who can read. those who have
         difficulty reading. and those who can read little if at all.
         In Social Studies however. the cultivation of a student's
         ability to develop. clarify and justify her or his views in
         discussion is an important goal which is achievable by
         readers and non-readers. Evaluation should also take this
         goal into account.




                                                               BS-l'
    .. 



           "     -,
/
           .~.J


           -:-,
                       I
               "' ....!




           ~

               i.-,'



           -.,
           . 1
           I
           ~..J




           ''''~, ~   ;


           ...        ~,




                 ,j


           --,

           -~




           ,,:"'"'1
           ...":
           '          ~




           .....       I




           :"-,
·. 



  Appendix C
  THE ROLE OF THE INTEGRATOR IN DEVELOPING CURRICULUM GUIDES FOR
  GRADES 7-9

  The development of seven new curriculum guides for Grades 7. 8
  and 9 in Jamaica requires a limited but important degree of
  coordination among the committees named to write the guides.
  Each subject field has its own priorities. its own structure.
  its unique set of basic principles. These must be honoured and
  their presence evident in the content and structure of each
  curriculum guide.
  However. there are commonalities that also must be respected in
  the design of a curriculum guide. Some of these are listed
  below as responsibilities for a person designated by the ACEO
  of Curriculum as the integrator. A description of the duties
  of the integrator should be made available to each curriculum
  guide committee member in order that the general principles
  will be known to all and a cooperative mood can be established
  from the outset of the curriculum development activity.
  Common Factors in all Junior High Curriculum Guides
  1.  The nature of the interest and abilities of age group 12 to
      IS must guide developers. Many students still require
      concrete examples of ideas before they can grasp abstract
      ideas. They learn best by doing something. usually better
      than by reading. writing or talking.
       As much project activity as possible should be built into
       the guides - particularly in Maths. Science. Technology
       Studies and Aesthetics. Subsidiary committees may need to
       be set up to develop sets of Assignment Cards, or
       arrangements made for subject associations of teachers to
       act as clearing houses for trading Assignment Cards.
       (Perhaps the JTA would undertake such a professional
       activity?)
       A common theme that should be included tn all subjects and
       reflected in the curriculum guides should be mankind's
       responsibility towards the environment. The child's
       personal habits. the care of the school and its
       surroundings, from the community through to national,
       international and the concept of "Spaceship Earth" - the
       individual and collective responsibility for the
       environment should be stressed.


                                                             8C-l
                                                                   "





     The integrator should encourage each committee to include
     practical assistance and suggestions for teachers that are
     consistent with the need for young ~dolescents to                  (           .
     experiment and tryout ideas.                                       "_.J




2.  A limit of five (5) periods per week per subject should be          ·       I
    carefully observed in order to emphasize integration among
    the subjects - a particularly important need for young
    adolescents in Grades 7, 8 and 9.
                                                                        · i
     The  practicing teachers on each committee should be
     listened to carefully about the rate and amount of work
     that classes can cover in a week, a term and a year.
                                                                        ",t.J


     Each subject committee, especially in the traditional
     basics' of language and maths, will argue strenuously for
     addi tional. time on the timetab-Ie compared to those they
     deem to be "lesser" subjects. The counter arguments are:
     that additional classroom time has not produced better
     results; that language and maths should permeate all other
                                                                        ..      '\



     subjects if they are truly basic and should not be isolated
     in the curriculum; that ·the quality of awareness lacking
     among lower achieving students is probably a result of an
     overly narrow focus on maths and English to the exclusion
     of much of the remainder of the curriculum in the primary
     schools.
3.  A modular structure should be common to all curriculum
    guides. The content should be organized in units of work.
    preferably around themes of interest to young adolescent
    students.                                                           ·   .
     The possibilities for integration between Maths and Science
     in this approach are many. The structure of mathematics
     should not be the organizing principle of that guide in
     particular, since it is an abstract construct that most 12"
     to 15 year olds are not ready to comprehend. However, it
     may be advisable for the committee to build a structure of
     mathematics before it re-organizes the work into themes of
     interest to students, with activities.
                                 -
     As soon as activities are designed for maths, the
     integration possibilities with Science and Technology
     Studies become apparent.  (And the timetable limit bf 5
     pe=iods per week becomes less restrictive!)
4.  The modular units of work in each curriculum guide should
    have suggested times attached to them - the total number of
    periods probably needed to accomplish the objectives of the
    module - within the 5 periods per week limit.



8C-2 

.. 


  S.  There should be alternative activities for slower,average
      and faster students included in each module of work.  It is
      imperative that all students work at the same modules of
      work at the same time. although i~ is expected that there
      will be differentiation in the quantity and quality of work
      covered on each theme.

  6.  It should be understood by each curriculum guide committ.!e
      that each draft document produced by the committee will be
      edited by the Ministry of Education before it is published
      and becomes mandatory for use in the Junior High programme
      of all schoolS.

  7.  Curriculum guide committee members should be free to
       publish or make arrangements with publishers of educational
       learning materials at any time after appointment to the
     . committee. with the condition that any intent to publish or
       connection with a publisher(s) be made known to .the ACEO.
       Curriculum. within a week of any formal commitment being
       made by the committee member .




                  ·





                                                            8C-3 

    .. 
   .. -.



           "-
           ·   1




·          II.;
I   +




        Appendix D
        COORDINATION OF TEXTBOOK AND CURRICULUM POLICIES

        The need for students in Jamaican Jchools to have textbooKS is
        fundamental to their learning. There is a wide variety of
        other learning materials that are useful and important in
        teaching and learning. but the textbooK remains. for the
        foreseeable future. a major tool for learning for each student
        in Jamaica.
        A basic text is a 'book that deals with the content of a
        curriculum guide and is consistent with the paedagogy
        recommended in the guide.
        There have been two major initiatives of value and importance
        in recent years.
        In primary schools across the nation. all students each year
        receive readers written by Jamaican authors and printed in
        Jamaica.
        At the secondary school level. the textbook rental scheme has
        made it possible for students' in high schools. technical
        schools. comprehensive schools and secondary schools. to rent
        bOOKS purchased from British publishers through British
        government loan. But students in Grades 7. Band 9 of all-age
        schools were not included.
        There should be a small operational section'in the Publications
        Section of the Planning and Development Division of the
        Ministry of Education that is closely connected to the core and
        tech/voc curriculum units,and is devoted to the approval. and
        as necessary. the development of textbOoks for use in the
        primary and secondary schools.
        The mandate of the section should be to ensure the provision
        and availability of books consistent with the Ministry of
        Education curriculum guides. for all students in primary and
        secondary schools.
        A Textbook Approvals section would be responsible for
        producing. once each year. about January 1. the list of
        textbooKS approved by the Ministry for use in the schools the
        following school year.
        The "Approved Textbooks" list should include all primary and
        secondary school bOOKS that the Ministry has deemed suitable
        for use as basic texts.

                                                                   80-1 

                                                                   "




The Textbook Approvals Section would be responsible for the
Primary Textbook Project and f~r the Secondary Textbook Rental
Scheme.                                /

Both primary and secondary textbook distribution would be a
matter of concern to the corps of area education officers.   One                ;
of their on-going activities should be to see that every                    j



student has the books that he or she is sJpposed to have.   A
few minutes of random spot-checking during regular visits to
classrooms would be enough to ascertain. that the distribution
                                                                        ,.J
systems of both textbooks schemes have been effective.
                                                                        ..r.,
The Textbook Approval Section would be the contact between the                  )


Ministry and book publishers.   There is a need for discussion,
negotiation, contracting, etc., in order to ensure a supply of
suitable books for the schools.   From time to time direct
arrangements for the production of books may have to be
undertaken by the section, depending on the initiative of
publishers.

The section should have the authority to negotiate with
publishers about such matters as reasonable prices for books,
given that a Ministry list of approved texts constitutes free           ".\

                                                                        "    ,
advertising and a captive market for the publishers: about the          ~..- )
quality of books: about distribution schemes: about the needs
of the curriculum for specialized books; etc.

An approvals procedure should be developed and published in
order that all publishers and would-be publishers of textbooks
are aware of the procedures for submitting books to the
Ministry for possible use in the schools as basic texts. and
the evaluation criteria that will be used.

Such a procedure would include the delivery of perhaps six
                                                                        .-'
copies of a book to the Textbook Approvals Section.   Five
copies could be sent for evaluation by anonymous evaluators,
selected by curriculum officers.  The evaluators could include
practicing teachers, teachers, college staff members, and
university faculty members.  Guides· for evaluation could be
prepared for the evaluators with such headings as:   relevance
to the curriculum guide, accuracy, pedagogy, prejudice.

The curriculum officer would prepare a summary of the anonymous
evaluators' recommendations, then make a recommendation for or
against listing of the book in the "Approved Textbooks" list.
The recommendation should be sent to the head of.the curriculum
unit who should make a final approval or rejection of each book.

The "Approved TextbooKS" list could be used to implement
policies about Jamaican authors, local publishing, loc~l
printing, etc., as economic and political realities allowed.
                                                                        Ia. ···




8D-2 

,   .
        The highest priority of the Textbook Approvals Section in the
        immediate future, under the direction of the Curriculum Units.
        should be to encourage the production of suitable textbooks for
        backward reading students in all secondary_level schools. This
        will be largely a matter of making arrangements for publishing
        materials that are already available.
        There are so.e thirty manuscripts ready or under development in
        the HIRLAP (High Interest Readers Language Arts Programme)
        project of the Core Curriculum Unit for reading in Grades 7. B.
        and 9.
        There are dozens of suitable publications that have been
        developed over the years in the JAMAL organization. These can
        not only provide easy-reading materials but serve to increase
        students' awareness of their country and its culture.
        These existing materials should be reprinted. if necessary with
        minor editing. and made available as soon as possible to the
        backward reading students in all secondary schools -- high.
        comprehensive. technical. new secondary. vocational and
        all-age. First distribution should be to the all-age and new
        secondary schools.
        It is recommended that the preparation and pUblishing of other
        publications by the Ministry be transferred to a section or
        unit in the Educational Servic~s Division of the re-organized
        Ministry.




                                                                 80-3 

    ., 


/




           ~,   .,
                :




           :,"




           .....   ':,
,   ,



        Appendix E
        THE MISSION AND OPERATING MOD~ OF THE EDUCATIONAL OPERATIONS
        DIVISION OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION;

        The Mission
        The Education Operations Division. by whatever name. is the
        center .of the headquarters organization of the Ministry of
        Education because its mission is central to the chief purpose
        of the schools - the provision of educational opportunity for
        every citizen of the country.
        In its operation. it concentrates on two major tasks: 1)
        coordinating. delivering. and supervising the nationwide
        programmes of the schools, including the supply of teachers,
        and 2) developing suitable programmes for all students:
        curriculum guides. in-service programmes, and other programmes
        and policies that are concerned with students' work, such as
        the provision of textbooks, evaluation, guidance, etc.
        The headquarters staff of the Ministry must be maintained at a
        minimum number of people in proportion to the staff in the
        Regional Offices who interface directly with the schools - the
        absolute priority of the Ministry is service to the schools.
        The Operating Mode
        The Division should be headed by a qualified. experienced
        educator with the title of Deputy Permanent Secretary. This
        should be the only division with a head of this rank.
        Ideally, the appointee should have been head of, or at least a
        member of: the Core Curriculum, the Tech/Voc Curriculum, and
        at lease one other unit in the Ministry before appointment to
        the post. Experience in teacher education, in the JTA, in
        academic work at the University, in technical work at CAST or
        at the Jamaica School of Agriculture would also be desirable
        evidence of ability and rounded experience.
        The primary characteristic of the individual should be an
        egalitarian philosophy of education and a broad outlook,
        perhaps reinforced by international experience.
        The Deputy Permanent Secretary should be the leader of a group
        of Chief Education Officers.

        Each Chief Education Officer should be responsible for an
        aspect of the educational programme of the nation:
        supervision, core curriculum, technical/vocational curriculum,
        textbooks, evaluation, special services (library. guidance).


                                                                    8E-l
                                                                  ,   I




The CEO's and the Deputy PS together form a Programme Council
whose function is to coordinate. the programme which is to be             /""''''.
delivered to the schools, through the supervision unit and the
Regional Offices.
Each unit should have a group of only three or four permanent             ....

                                                                          · ",1
Senior Education Officers, to provide for continuity in the
programme that the unit is administering. Other people needed
to work on particular projects should be seconded to the unit
for specified periods sufficient to accomplish a specific
assignment. Programme budgeting should be a normal procedure.
Each Senior Education Officer in one of the programme division
units should be responsible for particular nation-wide elements
of the programme of the schools: English; Science; Maths;
Library; Grade 6 Achievement Test; Reports by Education
Officers; Grad~s 1-3: supervision of area education officers;
etc., etc.
Close cooperation among programme officers should be fostered
by their CEO's and the Deputy Permanent Secretary.
There should be about 2S permanent SEO's at head office.
Another 2S people should be secondees*, brought in for limited
times, to carry out specific assignments.
Secondees should be selected to carry out specific assignments
prepared by Planning Unit officers, with the assistance of the
unit SEO's, under the direction of the unit CEO's and the
Dep.PS. Secondees should be from the ranks of the area
education officers, from the teachers' colleges and the Faculty
of Education, from any other relevant organizations such as the
JTA.                                                                      ·.
                                                                          "'-I
Travel or relocation and non-residence allowances should be
made to individuals thus seconded but no salary adjustments
should be paid.

                                                                          ::.....
                                                                          .. ,";i
                                                                          ·




*There should be at all times 12S area education officers to
fill th,e 100 regiona 1 supervis ion areas' in the country. The
Hextra" 2S people are to be seconded to the headquarters for
specific assignments or used to replace people on leave, or
exchanged wi~h ~eacher5' colleges staff members. the faculty at
UWl. CAST, in the private sector, etc., whenever a person with            · 1
specialized skills is needed for some development project in
the Ministry, or some specialized experience is required for a
Ministry officer.



8E-2 

·   ·



        If no exchange can be arranged, then the seconding unit should
        reimburse the unit or organization from which the se·condee is
        borrowed. for the person's total complement cost. in order that
        a substitute may be temporarily hired l to replace the secondee.
        Budgeting by programme becomes a normal part of the CEO's
        responsibili~y in each unit.

        The Supervision Unit and its CEO should have responsibility for
        the functional activities of the area education officers who
        are stationed at the Regional Offices. That is, the programme
        unit CEO's at head office may occasionally issue directives, or
        call meetings about the programmes for which they are
        responsible. to the Regional people. through a single channel:
        the CEO-Supervision, under the signature and authority of the
        Deputy P.S.  Such activities normally should be done after
        discussion with the Regional Director.

        The CEO-Supervision should have the absolute and irr~vocable
        responsibility to maintain an 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
        communication link to the Regional offices every working day of
        the year.  This communication channel is for financial.
        maintenance, or other reasons between the central office and
        the Regional offices, in addition to the basic reason for the
        system, the program of the schools. The system of
        communications may use telephone~ fax, computers. mail,
        telegrams. even car if necessary. depending on the nature and
        urgency of a communication. .

        Regional people. especially area education officers. must be
        able to communicate with programme officers at head office who
        know the policy for the nation in their particular fields. on a
        rapid and direct. although authorized basis.

        The CEO-Supervision. working closely with the other CEO's and
        the Dep. P.S .· has the responsibility for monitoring the use of
        communication links and ensuring that proper authorizations
        have been given for directives. etc., issued to Regional
        people.  Similarly the Regional Director has the same
        responsibility for monitoring the formal communications at a
        Regional office.
                        ·
        Each territorial education officer should report operationally
        to the Regional Director of the Iegion to which he or she is
        assigned.  The education offic~rs report normally for all
        matters through the Regional Director. Education officers
        report also, on request from a programme division CEO through
        the Regional Director. to the SE~ in the programme division who
        needs information or service for specific functions.




                                                                   SE-3 

                                                                    "





The priority for an education officer's services, however. 

should be her or his presence in the schools and communities of 

her or his regional area. Alternative assignments and                    i
                                                                         ~,/ 

                                                                                 ,

secondments of the territorial education officers should be
with the permission of the Regional Director, subject only to
the final decision of the Dep. P.S.
Divisions of the Ministry other than the Programme Division
should be headed by CEO's - finance, administration. tertiary
education liaison (including teacher education), personnel               .....   ;

(including staff training). etc.




                                                                         , -,




                            ·

                                                                         -~
                                                                             i




                                                                         '.~




BE-4 

·   ·




        Appendix F
                                                /


        A FOUNDATION GRANT POLICY TO EQUALIZE OPPORTUNITY

        The present system of subvention~to the various types of
        schools in Jamaica has developed over the years in response to
        specific issues as they have arisen. Thus primary schools
        receive government support as a historical response to the need
        for literacy and numeracy among workers in the nineteenth
        century. The new secondary schools are funded by government as
        a result of decisions made mainly after independence in 1962.
        to provide more ac~ess for citizens to secondary education and
        better skills for the work force. The high schools are funded
        by government as a result of requests for assistance when the
        various churches and trusts found the financial burden
        onerous. Technical schools. as well as the
        technical-vocational part of the new secondary schools. are
        supported because of the role allocated to them in providing
        skills for the work force of the nation.
        These different circumstances have led to the creation of a
        diverse system of schools, supported by inequitable grants from
        the government.
        This study of secondary school reform has not been limited to
        the secondary level of the public system because of the
        interlinked nature of so many educational policies. As is the
        case with curriculum. it is not possible to deal with funding
        equity at the secondary level without considering primary
        education.
        Teachers at both primary and secondary levels are paid
        according to qualifications and experience rather than the ages
        of their students. This is as it should be. But when one
        looks at the grants for the different levels. and types of
        schools within levels. sepa~ately f~om teachers' sala~ies, then
        gross inequities are appa~ent. Even with the equalizing effect
        of teachers' salaries included. the differences in support are
        increasingly obvious f~om primary to secondary to tertiary, as
        well as among the various kinds of secondary schools.
        The contr ibution of government to the education of' an 8 yea.:::
        old student in a primary school for the year 1988 was about
        Ja$SS8., salaries included.




                                                                       8F-l
                                                                    .   ,




If a student was 13 years old in 1988; he or she had government
support:
     of Ja$ 558. if in an all-age school
     of Ja$ 1202. if in a new secondary school
     of Ja$ 1669. if in a high school
If a student was 18 years old in 1988. he or she had government
support:
                                                                             ~-   "
     of Ja$ 1628. at a community college                                    U"._


     of Ja$ 3357. at the College of Arts. Science and Technology
     of Ja$ 19,000. - 48.000 at the University of the West Indies
It is recognized that expenditure per pupil must usually be
greater at the secondary and tertiary levels than at the
primary. The inequity in Jamaica is in the amount of that
difference: should the value of an Arts degree at university
be 35 times the value of learning to read in the lower primary
school?
What follows is a suggested "formula" for government grants to
the publicly-supported schools. The proposal incorporates the
government's policy of encouraging local support of schools.
It is also a methodology for change to correct the wide
inequa~ities in support for individual students in the various
kinds of schools - both the amounts of money allocated to the
formula's categories and the categories can be changed each
year as money is available and conditions change. It is likely
that increases to high schools would be limited until
equalization was aChieved. requiring them to depend even more
than at present on support from their communities. That in
itself would be an equalization factor. given the preponderance
of middle class attendance at high schools.




                                                                            .'", 



8F-2 

." 


            A FOUNDATION GRANT FORMUtA WITH LOCAL SUPPORT OF SCHOOLS
                                               /

       1.   Basic per-pupil grant for a Grade 1-11 students:
            Number of students (Grades 1-11) x $ .... per student
   2.       Additional Programme Factors
                   class size: special allowances for appr~ved small
                   classes
                   teacher qualifications: degrees. certificates,
                   experience
                   special education students: certified handicapsi
                   equipment. etc.
                   technical students (Grades 10 & 11): equipment. work
                   experience. etc.
                   textbooks: if provided
                   supplies and equipment: by approved subject
   3.       Administration
   4.       Maintenance
   S.       Capital Costs
   6.       Interim Equalization Factors:
            The basic per-pupil grant. item 1 above. should be modified
            with interim Equalization Factors until parity among all
            schools has been achieved.   (The assumption is that an
            immediate move to an equal basic per-pupil grant is not
            possible.)
                e.g.: all-age factor = basic grant + $x 

                       new secondary factor = basic grant +$y 

            NOTE 1:  This formula can be employed within the present
                     method of vote and item budgeting in the
                     legislature. It supports the move to programme
                     budgeting .
               ·
            NOTE 2:  The basic grant per pupil can be the same for
                     primary and secondary pupils because the
                     additional programme factors take into account the
                     special needs of students in the various school
                     programmes, regardless of age: class size.
                     teacher qualifications. special equipment. etc.
                     Factors can be added as needed.




                                                                     SF-3 

                                                                  ,
                                                                  .
                                                                       .
                                                                       \
                                                                  '- __.i

The Basic Grant, taken together,with the Additional Programme
Factors, constitute what can be called ,THE FOUNDATION
PROGRAMME. II
The Foundation Programme is what the government can provide . .
Community Support of Schools·
Anything needed or wanted in a school beyond the Foundation
Programme, should be provided, as possible. by .the local
community. The local school board becomes the manager of the
resources that the Home & School or Parent-Teachers Association
is able to provide. the gifts that local service clubs or other
                                                                  :.
community organizations offer, the support that churches,         , «

trusts, foreign sponsors, etc., volunteer.
·See "New Resources for Education: Community Management and
Financing of Schools in Less Developed Countries - Commonwealth
Secretariat" 1986
The Education Tax
In future years, it will probably become desirable that the
recently instituted Jamaican Education Tax be returned to
school boards in the form of an equalization grant to provide
for schools that are in very poor communities or that do not
have sponsors.
Public Accountability
Every school board, annually, should be required to publish a
simple summary of its receipts and expenditures - government
grants and income from all sources as well as total
expenditures on salaries. equipment, maintenance, etc.
Publishing should be by newspaper, by notice posted in public
places. and by student delivery to homes. The annual account
should be certified by the chairman of the board and the
Territorial Education Officer.
Area School Boards.
I t would be desirable. at the time. that the Education Tax is
used for equalization purposes, to create area school boards as
the agency for coordination of equalization. There are too
many schools, nea=ly 900 in Jamaica. for administration to be
carried out directly from Kingston. Area school boards would
be responsible for several school boards and their schools in a
geographical area. The area board, consisting at least in part
of representatives from the school boards. and in part of
Regional Education Officers. with the relevant MP's as a formal
Advisory Committee. would make decisions about spending the
equalization grants provided by the Education Tax. A basic

BF-4
· ·




      equity factor would probably'have to be established also at
      that time. in order to deter~ine the relative wealth of the
      potential support for each school - land assessment or income
      tax revenues or some other objective criterion for establishing
      the potential of a community ability to support its school.
      Compensatory Policies and the Miristry of Education
      The principle of compensation should be introduced into the
      educational policies. both financial and educational. of the
      Ministry.
      Such policy should be viewed as a government response to. the
      need to equalize opportunity for those least able to help
      themselves.
      For example:
          1.  In relation to government subventions to the schools.
              the basic per pupil grant that is proposed elsewhere in
              this report should be higher for students in all-age
              schools in remote and mountainous schools and for those
              in low-income areas. than for students in high,
              technical and new secondary schools.
          2.  Teacher compensation packiges should be devised for
              housing and transportation in remote areas: to provide
              incentives for well-qualified people to spend at least
              a year or two. perhaps early in their careers. in
              remote and rural areas.
          3.  For supervision. younger education officers. with
              rugged four-wheel drive vehicles, should be assigned to
              remote and mountainous areas for their first
              assignments, in order to improve the quality of
              education in those areas and to make a name for'
              themselves to earn promoti~n or desirable transfers.




                                                                 BF-S 

· >




      .. J




      -.'




      ·, ... 1
Appendix G
A NATIONAL ASSESSMENT                  I




Programme and Revision of the Common Entrance Exam
Part A -- An Educational View
The entire set of examinations currently in use and under
development in Jamaican schools should be examined from an
overall systems point of view.
There is a need for a cost analysis of the present multiplicity
of national assessment activities that have accrued over the
years in the schools. (see Part B of this appendix.)
Such an analysis should take into account not only the costs
allocated to the budget items dealing with the exams, but the
costs of lost 'time on task' in the other units of the Ministry
when officers are assigned to such duties as assessing exam
papers: evaluating teacher college. students, marks and exams:
marking exam papers, such as the CXC and other Jamaican exam's;
allocating students to schools using CEE,results; etc., etc.
There is an even greater need for a rationalization of all
testing into a patte~n suited to the purposes and design of the
curriculum that students meet as they progress through the
schools. The National Assessment Program is such a pattern.
But the question of the Common Entrance Examination must be
addressed first. THe CEE overshadows any discussion of the
examination system in Jamaican schools and must be dealt with
in order that any overall scheme for rationalizing the pattern
of examination can be presented.
Why Revise the CEE?
The exam of most ·significance in the schools. and in the
nation, is the Common Entrance Examination.
The CEE is a striking example of a once good idea that has been
overtaken by events to the point where it has b'ecome an
impediment to progress, affecting both primary and secondary
schools.
When it was devised, it was a useful   and necessary instrument
for the selection of students at the   end of primary school, in
order to choose those most likely to   benefit from the very
limited number of places in the high   schools.
The CEE is a selection examination only. It tests some English
and mathematics. and mental ability. It has a comm~ndable
correlation with success in high schools.
                                                             8G-l
                                                                    ,.......

                                                                    i-r
But this exam has also led to the identification of children as
early as Grade One for probable- success in writing it. and
those children tend to be given priority attention. It has
also been well demonstrated that teaching 'backward' from the
CEE. that is. drilling students on what is thought will be on
the test paper. does not improve the standards of the primary
schools.
The present test is not geared to the approved curriculum
guides for the primary grades - it does not test the knowledge
that the children are expected to have learned in the social
sciences. in science. or in aesthetics.
Too many of the children not considered of CEE potential are        ......,;i

functionally illiterate when they leave primary school.
Too many of the children do not have the social awareness that
comes from a balanced and all-round curiosity about their
world: the kind of awareness that is developed in part through
social studies. science and in particular. the arts.
                                                                    .     .'

There are other tests that. are somewhat related t6 the CEE in
use in Jamaican schools. The Grade Nine Achievement Test and
the Grade Eight Technical School Entrance Test have-been
devised to ameliorate somewhat the awful finality of the CEE on
the lives of 80\ of Jamaican children. These 'second chance'
exams provide very limited opportunities. on the order of 6\
and 8\. to find a place in a high school.
There are. however. other kinds of examinations   than those for
selection only. There are diagnostic exams and    achievement
exams. Either of these is better suited to the    early stages of
common. general education for all people than a   pure selection    , 1
exam like the CEE.
The CEE. therefore. should be revised. The revision should
take place in the year in which the new Grade 6 aChievement
test in the National Assessment Programme (see below) is ready
for use.
The Grade 6 N.A.P. test can be used immediately as the Common
Entrance Exam.
It can select students. as does the present CEE test. for the
different levels of secondary schools. But it will have added
value also in diagnosis and standards appraisal. of direct
benefit to the students and teachers. because the questions
asked in it are derived from the curriculum guides issued by
the Ministry for use in the primary schools.




8G-2 

·   ·



        The   Na~ionQl   Assessment Proqxamme
        The Ministry has been developing a systematized approach to
        student assessment nationally throug~ the National Assessment
        Programme.

        The National Assessment Programme should ultimately deal with
        the period of common studies. a period that should include
        Grades One to Nine after a common curriculum is finally
        implemented in Jamaican schools.  Such a goal may be reached.
        if there is sustained effort by all concerned. in about 10
        years.

        It should be a basic policy that diagnostic testing is the most
        valuable for students and teachers. and that achievement
        standards can be abstracted from diagnostic tests with much
        less intrusion into the teaching/learning,cycle in the
        classroom than other kinds of test and exams.

        Care should be taken to ensure that any new system does not
        have so many tests that 'teaching to the test' becomes the
        common classroom strategy.

        Care should also be taken to ensure that the costs of the new
        system do no~ become disproportionate to the benefits.

        For example. the National Assessment Programme might consist of
        the following:

        Grade One

        The readiness test which has been developed for Grade One and
        is nearly ready for adoption.

        Grade Three/Four

        The proposed Grade Three Achievement Test now under development
        by the Ministry should be renamed the Grade Four Diagnostic
        Test and. if necessary. be redesigned as a diagnostic test.

        A diagnostic test given at the beginning of a school year.
        administered and marked by the teacher who will be teaching the
        child. can help student. teacher and parents to understand the
        child's academic needs better.

        The test should be used in September in Grade Four.
        Achievement tests given at the end of a school year to young
        children have little effect as a motivator of the children.
        End of year tests are of little use to the teaching process.




                                                                  8G-3 

                                                                  .. 


either. since they are after the fact of the year's work.
Their value is assumed to be tQ the parents. who then adopt
unwarranted attitudes to their child oIl'the basis of superior
or inferior results on one test.
The Grade Four Diagnostic Test should be designed to give
                                                                              ,~
teachers some idea of how well a child has progressed in                      j


mastery of the topics in the Ministry of Education curriculum
guides for Grades One to Three. There should be at least one
question requiring a short prose answer since written language
is such a high priority in the curriculum guides.
                                                                         .-'_.'.
The test items should be selected from supplies of topic items
sUbmitted by teachers. reviewed by area and curriculum
education officers, teacher college staff and test design
people. Items collected each year should be saved until an
adequate bank of items is available for each topic o~ the                .~       :
curriculum - a useful function for computers.
The results of the test should be reviewed by the principal and
the area education officer. Regional and national results can            ,,,:


be tabulated: both at the regional level as guides for
possible in-service work with teachers "and at the national
level as an annual comparison with previous year's results.              :        ,
                                                                                  j




The two important factors in the selection of test items are"
1) suitability for the age group, and 2) relevance to the MOE
curriculum guides for Grades One to Three.
Grade Six CEE
The Grade six Achievement Test currently under development
should be a completion test at the end of six years of school,
because it is also needed as a selection test to fulfill the
function of a common entrance exam to secondary school.
It should be administered about the middle of April each year
to all Grade Six students in the nation. There must be at
least one question requiring a short essay type answer to
assess the student's ability in written expression as compared
with the requirements of the Ministry of Education curriculum
guides.
The test results should supplement the teacher's assessment of
a student'S aChievement and would become an important part of
~he transfer information that is sent to the school where the
student will begin Grade Seven.




8G-4 

. ..


       The Grade Six Common Entrance Exam should be designed and then
       administered from Kingston. until the six proposed regional
       offices begin to function.  At that time. the regional offices
       should take over the local administration of the test. while
       the central office should continue to design and validate the
       test and calculate the national results.

       In either case, the test results should be seht back to schools
       via the Territorial Education Officers. The officers should
       then work with principals and teachers to analyze the test
       results and identify areas of needeQ in-service work.

       Selection of children for high. secondary and all-age schools
       should take place at the regional level. based on a "Grade
       Seven Application Form" which should be filled in by the
       child's parents or guardian. The application form would have
       on it the results of the Grade Six Common Entrance Exam.

       The form should ask the parents or guardian to fill in three
       choices of secondary schools. in order of preference. The
       names of all schools offering secondary education within a four
       mile radius of the primary school should be listed on the form.

       There should be advice to the parent or guardian on such a
       form. suggesting that they think about four facts when they
       name a school that they wish their child to attend for Grade
       Seven:

       1.  The child's marks on the Grade Six Common Entrance Exam;
           (to be filled in by the school) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

       2.  The child's reading level;
           (to be filled in by the school) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

       3.  The distance the child would have to travel to attend each
           of the chosen schools; and if not by foot. how?

                        School #1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . · Miles from home ......... . 

                        School +1=2 ······················ Miles from home ......... . 

                        School #3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · · . . . . . Miles f rom home ......... . 

                      ·      (to be filled in by the parent or guardian)

       4.  Any special circumstances to be taken into account when the
           allocation to schools is made. such as residence with an
           aunt or guardian (for which a legal paper of guardianship
           must be presented)
                     (to be filled in by the parent or guardian)


       . .. . . .   . .. . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . .. . . ..   . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. ..   . . .   .. .




                                                                                                                                                  SG-S
                                                                    .

                                                                    ,,




It might be necessary to administer the Grade Six Exam earlier
in the school year if the logistics can~ot be managed swiftly
enough to allow time for the Grade Seven Application Forms to
be given to secondary school principals by the end of June.
after the allocations have been done by the Regional Offices.
Ultimately in the years ahead. the Grade six to G~ade S~ven
transfer of students should be carried out in the same manner
as the movement of students from any grade in the primary
school to the next grade. This would be dependent however. on
the upgrading of all secondary schools in Grades 7. Band 9 to
a recognized standard of excellence across the country.
Grade 9
Sometime in the future also.   after a common Grade 7. Band 9
                                                                         . ·f
curriculum is implemented in   all secondary schools. a .Grade           :..i
Nine Achievement Test should   be constructed in a manner similar
to the Grade Six Achievement   Test. and included in the National
Assessment Programme.
The Grade Nine examination then would be administered to all
students. at the end of compulsory. common education for all.
and could be used as an indicator to help students to make
sensible choices among the available opportunities after Grade
Nine.
Conclusion
In the foregoing assessment system, there can be ample
guarantees of excellence. Schools may set up award schemes.
Scholarships should continue from community organizations and
                                                                             ... !
interested citizens.                                                     ~




From time to time there might be special needs that require
                                                                         .... 

                                                                         .       )




special testing, e.g. a national assessment of reading levels
in order to make decisions about textbook distribution or
language in-service.
The foregoing patt~n includes some of the features of the
present plans for the National Assessment Programme. It
involves teachers, principals. education officers and concerned
parents in a testing plan that helps students. does not intrude
too much into the teaching/learning processes in the classroom,
is reasonable in cost, and yet gives assurance to the public
that standards are being measured.




8G-6 

·..   . .


             Certificates and Diplomas
             A distinction is made in the £ollowinq overall plan for a
             National Assessment Proqram between the examinations and the
             certificates or diplomas that mark staqes of proqress in a
             student's school life.
             It. is proposed that when a ~omml.n curriculum is fi-nally in
             place in Jamaican schools. that a Jamaica School Certificate be
             qiven to students who successfully complete the nine years of
             common education. The certificate should list on its back the
             results of the common exam, the results of any optional
             subjects taken, and the readinq level Qf the student.
             At the same time that the new Jamaican School Certificate is
             issued on the basis of a common curriculum in Grades 7, 8 and
             9, the technical schools should admit students only after Grade
             Nine, and not at Grade Eiqht as at present.
             It is also proposed that a Jamaica School Diploma be qiven to
             students who successfully complete a specified number of
             subjects in Grades 11 and 12. The number of credits required
             for the diploma must be carefully desiqnated and should include
             CXC subjects, as well as technical and other academic
             subjects. The overall effect of suc~ a plan would be that the
             CXC subjects would become a speci«l cateqory of subjects within
             the senior-cycle secondary school for those students who are
             intent on tertiary studies at a university or a polytechnical
             institution. Most students who remained in school after Grade
             Nine would take a qeneral mix of practical and academic studies
             of more immedia'e value in the world of work and private life.
             Such a simplification of qraduation standards is badly needed
             in the Jamaican school system. Other educational institutions.
             alonq with business and industry, should be assisted to chanqe
             their entrance requirements to the new terminoloqy and
             simplified standards of any new system adopted by the schools.
                           A NATIONAL ASSESSMENT PROGRAMME - SUMMARY

             Grade One
             September -       Diaqnostic readiness test,   ~eacher   marked
             Grade Four
             September -       Diaqnos~ic   test, teacher marked
             Grade Six




                                                                               8G-7 

                                                                 .. 
   "        ,




March/April    CEE/Achievement examination. qov't marked
               (until Grade 7.,8 and 9 curriculum standardized
               - 10 yrs?)             /                                  · f



Grade Nine
March/April    Jamaica school CertificatE. qov't examination
               (for all students, wh~n Gr. 7, 8 and 9
               curriculum standardized)
Grade Eleven
May/June       Jamaica school Diploma. qov't examinations
               (includes technical schools and CXC results on
               diploma)
                                                                        '-.
                                                                        .,."




                                                                         .
                                                                             .,
                                                                             ;




                                                                        :-.. ,




8G-8 

· ..   a   ..




                     A NATIONAL ASSESSMENT PROGRAMME AND REVISION OF THE COMMON
                        ·               ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
                                                      /

                Part B - An Economics View

                The institution of a common curriculum for Grades 7-9 in
                Jamaican secondary schools implies that selection should be
                kept to a minimum prior to Grade 9. No curriculum is truly
                common if 15 percent or more of the students in the relevant
                cohort can be expected to drop out of school before completing
                it, and investments in curriculum development and
                implementation cannot yield their full benefits if the new
                materials are not provided to all children.  A common
                curriculum for Grades 7-9 will thus require changes in the
                Common Entrance Examination (CEE), both in terms of the content
                of the exam and in terms of its timing.

                1.   The Present System

                The CEE is the single main determinant of success and failure
                in the Jamaican educational system, and the competition to
                "pass" the exam is consequently intense.  The pervasive ·effects
                of this competition are felt throughout the educational system.

                Students take the CEE in the sixth grade (sometimes in the
                fifth), and those who "pass"are rewarded with places in
                secondary high schools. Pass rates are low (+/-20%), and are
                determined by the availability of high school places, rather
                than by absolute standards of performance.  High schools are
                commonly the best and the most prestigious secondary schools in
                Jamaica. and enrollment in them provides privileged access to
                further educational and occupational opportunities.  Those who
                "fail" the exam are relegated to new secondary schools and
                all-age schools. which are perceived to be inferior to high
                schools on virtually all measures of educational quality. Many
                of the students who fail the CEE drop out of school entirely in
                or soon after Grade 7. when it becomes apparent that further
                educational oppo~tunities are closed to them.

                The effects of the CEE are felt not only in secondary schools
                and after. but in primary schools as well.  In primary schools
                the formal curriculum is largely neglected in the later grades
                in favor of courses aimed at preparation for the exam.   Elite
                "prep" schools devote their efforts to ensuring their students'
                success on the CEE, and other primary schools are obliged to
                emulate them.  Schools offer specialized "common entrance"
                classes to prepare their students for the exam. and students
                also attend extracurricular CEE courses after school and during
                school holidays. for which tuition fees are charged.   The
                quantity of private and public resources devoted to the CEE



                                                                            BG-9 

                                                                  .. 



exam (and so diverted from other educational uses) is
impossible to measure with any precision. but some rouqh
estimates are presented in the following section of this paper.
The bad effects of the CEE on basic education in Jamaica are
amplified by the fact that it is an aptitude rather than an
achievemp.nt ~xam, desiqned to predict success in hiqh school
rather t~an to assess mastery of the primary school
curriculum. Time qiven to preparation for the CEE is ~herefore
mostly if not entirely time taken from reqular instruction. As
a result, children who "fail" the exam are doubly deprived. On
the one hand. they are debarred from the pursuit of valued
educational and occupational opportunities. On the other hand,
they are deprived of much of the education they miqht otherwise          <_I

receive in primary school. Reportedly hiqh rates of functional
illiteracy amonq primary school leavers and the resources qiven
to remedial instructional proqrams in Grades 7-9 in nearly all
secondary and all-aqe schools indicate the maqnitude of these
effects, and their costs.
2.   The Costs of the Common Entrance Examination
The costs of the CEE cannot be specified precisely, but it is
possible to identify the main components of those costs. and to
provide some rouqh estimates of their maqnitude. Estimates of
the cost of the CEE are presented in Table 1.
The administrative costs of the CEE include the costs of
producinq the exam, distributinq it to schools and collectinq
it aqain. inviqilatinq the exam in the schools. and markinq the
examination papers. Estimates of these costs are provided in
the Ministry of Education budqet, and are shown in Row 1 of
Table 1.
To the cost of administerinq the exam must be added the cost of
closinq schools on the day that the examination is qiven. which
is equivalent to sliqhtly more than one-half of one percent of
annual recurrent costs in those schools. On the conservative
assumption that expendi tures· in the 400 schools where the CEE
                                                                             .,
is written are no larqer than in those where it is not. these            :


costs can be estimated at J$473,600, as shown in Row 2 of Table
1.

The provision of specialized Common Entrance classes or the
diversion of reqular classroom time to CEE preparation
represent further costs of the exam. It is hard to estimate
how much teacher time is used in this way. In many schools,
for example. CEE preparation classes are offered after school
or durinq holidays, and students pay tuition. The cost of
these classes is primarily borne by students, as is discussed



SG-10 

...   ...




                           Table "1. Estimated Costs of the Common 

                               Entrance Examination, 1987-1988 

                                                    /

                                                                 CEE
                                                           (High       (Low
                                                         Estimate)   Estimate)

            1.    Administrative Cost                      544.1

            2.    School Closing 1                         473.6

            3.  Diversion of Instructional Time
                    (\ of Time Diverted)2                 (50\)        (33\)

                                                         20603.2      13598.1

            4.  Remedial Instruction
                   (\ Attributed to CEE)3                 (50\)        (25\)

                      All-age schools 4                  12978.9       6489.4
                      New secondary schools 5            11750.9       5875.5
                      High schools o                      5003.4       2601. 7

            5.    Extracurricular CEE Preparation

                      Costs Borne by students 7         12.740.0 

                      Opportunity cost 8                  6370.0 

                      Public cost 9                       2388.8 


            6.    Total Costs of CEE                    72,852.9     50,981.2


            NOTES

            1    Four hundred of 783 primary and all-age schools are closed
                 for one day for the administration of the CEE.

            2    Percentage of time diverted from regular curricular
                 instructlon in Grades 5-6 in primary and all-age schools.

            3    Percentage of time given to remedial instruction in all-age.
                 new secondary, and high schools.  Assumed that between one
                 quarter and one half can be attributed to effects of CEE.

            4    Assumed  that 66 percent of instruction in new secondary
                 schools is remedlal.

            5    Assumed  that 40 percent of instruction in new secondary
                 schools is remedlal.

            6    Assumed  that 20 percent of instruction in high schools is
                 remedial.

                                                                                 8G-1l
                                                                  .
                                                                  .... ,




below. In regular English and Maths classes. however, it is
possible if not certain that mu.ch of the available time in
Grades 5 and 6 (and even Grade 4) is devoted to exam
preparation. and these subjects are the core elements of the
curriculum at this level. Insofar as this is true, a large
share of total annual recurrent expenditure in these grades
should in fact be assigned as a cost of the CEE. Alternative
estimates of this cost based on contrasting sets of assumptions
are shown in Row 3 of Table 1.
As was noted above, at least some part of the need for remedial
programs in Grades 7-9 in high, secondary. and all-age schools
can be attributed to the diversion of instructional time to
exam preparation in earlier grades, and some part of the cost
of these programs must therefore also be assigned to the CEE.
The direct costs of remedial programs include the salaries of
teachers in remedial classes and the cost of materials for.
their students. An additional cost is the further loss of
instructional time for students in Grades 7-9, where class time
for remediation is diverted from the standard curriculum.
(This cost will become even more salient with the present
effort to adopt and implement a common curriculum for these
grades.) Alternative estimates of these costs are presented in
Row 4 of Table 1.
Extracurricular courses devoted to preparation for the CEE are
offered after school and during holidays in many schools. The
cost of these courses is borne mainly by students. who pay
tuition directly to the schools. or to the teachers. and who
also purchase their own books. In addition to the financial
burdens imposed by tuition and the purchase of books, there is
also an opportunity cost for these courses. as students who
attend are prevented from earning income during the period of
the courses. The value of their time is no doubt small. but
for children of 10 or 11 it is nevertheless certainly a f&etor.
There is some public cost for CEE preparation courses as well,
in that the courses are commonly held on school'premises. and     .
                                                                  ,~   .1
                                                                       -'

make use of school facilities (e.g. desks and blackboards).
Insofar as these courses also make use of school supplies. e.g.
paper. chalk, their public cost is significantly increased.
Estimates of the public and private costs of CEE preparation
courses are provided in Row 5 of Table 1.
High and low estimates of the total cost of the CEE are
p:esented in Row 6 of Table 1. The frailty of the estimates
and the arbitrary nature of many of the assumptions on which
they are based must be acknowledged, but it should also be
noted that both estimates are likely to err on the low rather
than the high side.



8G-12 

While large, these figures still fail to take into account the
full cost to the nation of the CEE. As was noted above, the
diversion of instructional resources from the regular
curriculum to exam preparation at least contributes to the high
rate of functional illiteracy among primary school leavers,
while the administration of the exam in Grade 6 and the
consequent closing of opportunities for those who "fail"
contributes to high rates of drop-out in Graies ~, 8, and 9.
The prodigal waste of human resources to which the CEE
contributes is a cost that Jamaica can ill afford to bear. The
chance to reduce or eliminate this cost is among the strongest
arguments in favoL of a comprehensive reform of Jamaican
secondary schools. which would include replacement of the
present CEE by an achievement test (i.e. the NAP) and the
postponement of selection for specialized secondary education
to the end of Grade 9.
3.   Policy Alternatives
It is a widely and long acknowledged fact in Jamaica that the
present stranglehold of the CEE on the country's educational
system must be broken if the quality and coherence of primary
and secondary schooling are to be restored. One salutary
change is already underway. The Grade 6 achievement test
developed as a component of the National Assessment Program is
being studied as a potential replacement for the present CEE
test. The shift from an aptitude to an achievement basis for
the CEE exam should in itself go some way toward improving the
quality of Jamaica's primary schools, and toward enlarging the
competencies of primary school students as well.
A second reform in the CEE has been proposed (most recently by
the Minister of Education), which would shift the CEE from
Grade 6 to Grade 9. Postponing selection for differentiated
secondary education for three years would restore the integrity
of the primary school curriculum in Jamaica, and would
encourage the provision of basic educational opportunities for
all Jamaican students. It might also be expected to reduce the~
rate of drop-out in Grades 7-9, as many students now remain in
school only as long as they retain the possibility of being
selectee for high school admission. By postponing the CEE,
students could be kept in school for longer periods, and they
would very likely learn more while they were there.
There are serious obstacles to the implementation of such a
reform. however. As long ai the Jamaican system of secondary
schools remains highly stratified in terms of educational
quality, the problem of allocating Grade 7 students among
schools will persist. If the problem is not to be solved by
competitive examinations it will have to be solved in some
other way, and alternative policies are likely to encounter


                                                          8G-13
significant opposition. Moreover. postponing the CEE ,implies

that students will be sorted into differentiated secondary 

schools after Grade 9 rather than Grade/7. Insofar as this is     .   ,    ;


so there can be no presumption that students will remain in the
same schools for Grades 7-9 and Grades lO-ll. but students who
are required to transfer from elite to less prestigious schools   ,
                                                                           ,
                                                                           ,
after Grade 9 can nevertheless be expected to pro~est.
The present selection system has the advantage of relying on a
mechanism. the CEE. that is viewed as "meritocratic" and hence    · J
legitimate by most Jamaicans. Any alternative 'policy must be
widely viewed as equally legitimate in order to be successful.    ,        ,
                                                                           ,
The inequities inherent in the present stratified secondary       ,
                                                                      ,
                                                                           ,
                                                                  ,_ J
school system and the problem posed by the need for a
legitimate basis for sorting students into highly unequal
opportunities should be borne in mind in evaluating the policy
alternatives presented elsewhere in this report.
4.   The Costs of Reform
The financial savings in the Ministry of Education's budget
that will be realized by reforming the,CEE are likely to be
small at best. The administrative cost of the exam will not be    .. 1
                                                                           ,
reduced by a change in its content or timing. and students may    ., J
                                                                           )




well continue to purchase private instruction in preparation
for the exam. To the extent that the NAP is curriculum rather
than aptitude based. however. the demand for such instruction
may be reduced. as students will be able to prepare for the
exam in. rather than after. class. Replacing the CEE with the
NAP and postponing selection to the end of Grade 9 will in fact
probably increase the financial cost of primary and junior high
education in Jamaica. because it may cause students who would
now drop out to remain in school through the completion of
Grade 9. Some estimates of the costs and savings that might
follow reform of the CEE are presented in Table 2.
In economic terms. the savings that will follow from the reform
of the CEE are sUbstantial. The main components of the present    ., l


cost of the CEE are the diversion of time from the assigned
curriculum to exam~reparation and the use of instructional
time for remediation in Grades 7-9. as Table 1 shows. The
shift from an aptitude to an achievement basis for the exam
will reduce both of these costs to zero. With respect to the
first. the use of the NAP as a selection device will reward a
focus on the assigned curriculum rather than its neglect. thus
eliminating any incentive for the diversion of curricular
time. With respect to the second. increased instruction within
the ass~gned curriculum in Grades Sand 6 will reduce the need
for remediation in Grades 7-9. While some students will
continue to require remedial instruction. the cost can be fully           -,
attributed to differences among students in aptitude and
motivation. and not to the CEE.

8G-l4
.


                  Table 2.    Costs and Savinqs of Common 

                             Entrance Exam Reform 

                                            /


                                                          JA $
    l.   School closinqs                                   NIL
                                                (High)           (Low)
    2.   Diversion of instructional time        (20603.2)        (l3598.l)

    3.   Remedial instruction                   (29733.2)        (l4766.6)

    4.   Extracurricular exam preparation                  NIL
    B.   COSTS
    l.   Administrative cost                              l086.2

    2.  Grade 9 completion rate increased
          from 75 to 90 percent
         Capital Cost
          Provision of new school places                 52579.9

         Recurrent Cost
           Instruction of new students·                  20540.0

    3.   Preparation of NAP Grade 9 exam                  5000.-0

    Total Recurrent Expenditure                          2l626.2




                                                                         6G-lS
The principal cost of examination reform is the cost of
                                                                  .   .

expanding enrollments in Grade& 7-9. Postponing selection to
the end of Grade 9 will remove one of the main causes for
persistently high drop out rates in these grades. and so should
cause students to remain in school longer. In Table 2 it is
assumed that the percentage of students completing nine grades
will rise from 75 to 90 percent. The co~t of this expansion .is
not small. but additional expenditur~ on instruction at this
level should significantly increase the internal and external
efficiency of the educational system. raise the average
achievement level of Jamaican students. and provide better
qualified candidates for the local labor market. These
benefits can only be attained at the cost of providing more
school places for students and employing more teachers in
junior high schools. but evidence from around the world
suggests that the magnitude of the benefits to be gained more
than justifies the cost.




8G-16 

Appendix H
CONSTRAINTS ON THE MINISTRY   Or   EDUCATION's MISSION

The Ministry of Education is the organized expression of a
nation's will to provide opportunities for learning for its
people.
This Secondary Reform Project study in Jamaica has focused
particularly on the lower secondary years of the publicly
supported education system. The study team, however, has
examined briefly the primary schools, the upper secondary and
the tertiary stages as well. Various sections of the report
make comment on all stages.
The position taken in this study is that curriculum and school
administration must be integrated if they are to be effective
in providing educational opportunity for all. Therefore, this
study was carried on during its first three months in
conjunction with the Study of School Administration.
There is a major and basic area of organization that affects
the nature of educational opportunity and the ability of the
Ministry of Education to provide it. The issue was not
addressed directly by the School Administration Study, nor is
it the direct focus of this study. Nevertheless, mention
should be made of th~ problem - the relationship of the
Ministry of Education to other departments of the government.

             *                     *
The Ministry of Education is one among many ministries of the
government. The Minister and the Minister of State represent
the interests of education in the competition for resources
that occurs around the Cabinet table. This is as it should be
in a parliamentary democracy.
Below the Minister, the Permanent Secretary and the other civil
servants in the ministry carry out their duties within the
policies of the government, according to approved procedures.
This study is focused particularly on curriculum, some of the
factors that enable or inhibit the provision of good
educational opportunity for all citizens, and some alternative
designs for the studies that students should undertake in the
schools. But it has become apparent also that there are
factors outside the Ministry that are hindering, and indeed,
preventing the provision of quality service to students and
teachers in the schools.




                                                          8H-l
There has been no in-depth study. The following comments are
based on limited observation of the practices in the Ministry
of Education in Jamaica. compar~d with ~xperience in another
civil service in canada. which also has a colonial heritage.
but a longer history of independence.
                                                                   .   "   .~


It appears that the financial controls exercised by the
Minis'ry of Finance are too complex and too minutely pervasive
to allow Ministry of Education officers to carry out their
responsibilities effectively.
Instead of a process of budget approval by the Legislature for
education. and then the respon~ibility for control of
expenditure of the line items in the budget being within the
Ministry of Education. the line item control of expenditure is
in the Ministry of Finance. The effect is that long range
plans. such as those for in-service summer courses which are
part of the programme descriptions approved in the Education
budget. are not possible because of the uncertainty about money
allocations. Ministry officers are put in the position of
calling meetings. scheduling summer courses. establishing
committees. etc .· not on the basis of long-range plans approved
in the annual budget setting process. but on the short-term
availability of funds allocated item by item from t~e Ministry
of Finance.
Ministry officials are often seriously embarrassed by the short
notices given to teachers and others for courses and meetings.
Delays in responding to requisitions for supplies and equipment
are often blamed. fairly or not. on "no money available from
Finance for this matter." There is considerable inconvenience
and embarrassment for teachers who must change personal plans
on short notice.
The overall result is a general air of confusion and
inefficiency about administrative matters that affects
officers. principals and teachers, and is translated into
arbitrary dealings with students.
There may well be similar effects in the administrative
operations of the Ministry in addition to the supervisory
functions that have been noted by this team.
A general solution to the problem should be sought in the
following management principle.




8H-2 

Af~er    ~he Minis~ry   of      budge~ has been approved by
                             Educa~ion
Legisla~ure.              should be able ~o proceed as if ~he
                ~he Minis~ry
money was available. The plans ou~lined in ~he approved budge~
should be announced a~ ~he appropria~e ~imes. Any need ~o
cancel plans because of money shor~ages should be firs~ a
ma~~er of discussion and realloca~ion of funds wi~hin ~he
various uni~s and budge~ cen~ers of ~he Minis~ry of Educa~ion.
and ~hen a cancella~ion announcemen~ if funds canno~ be found
wi~hin   ~he Educa~ion alloca~ion.

If ~he Minis~ry of Educa~ion is no~ now capable of managing
priori~ies in ~he foregoing manner. ~hen a year or ~wo of ~he
direc~ accoun~abili~y ~ha~ accompanies ~his ~ype of programme
budge~ing. should soon help all concerned ~o improve ~heir
sense of responsibili~y. The Minis~ry of Finance should
oversee. coordina~e and audi~ ~he budge~ary process - i~ should
no~ be involved in ~he line and i~em expendi~ures of ~he
Minis~ry of Educa~ion.                         


There is a second area of in~er-governmen~al prac~ice ~ha~
impinges on ~he Minis~ry of Educa~ion in a way ~ha~ inhibi~s
educa~ional    oppor~uni~y.

The Minis~ry 'of ~he Public Service is charged with the task of
maintaining standards of competency and equity - fairness
across the minis~ries of the governmen~. A major aspect of
this responsibility is the attempt to establish
g~nerallequivalencies among ca~egories of jobs. in order to
establish pay scales that are thought to be fair among
positions of equal difficulty and responsibility.
In civil service commissions everywhere there is an uneasy
balance between ~he a~tempt by officials of the public service
agency ~o establish equity. and the officials oI various
ministries who ~ry to describe the quantity.and the quality of
the service and responsibili~y that -people perform in various
jobs.
The particular case that most glaringly illustrates the problem
inherent in this arrangement has been the status and salary
assigned to educa~ion officers in the Ministry of Educa~ion.
There have been recent ac~ions to improve this situation. It
is to be hoped that sufficient improvements can be made to
ensure that education officers who visit ~he schools and
classrooms have sufficien~ status and the authori~y ~hat
accompanies that status ~o become forceful agents for change in
the schools.




                                                           BH-3 

·iIl   i:".




        ,.




         , ..




        \,
