RESTRICTED
JItLE    COPY                     Report No. P-703
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
May 22, 1969



I' .M2O, A r; TOTA 3ANh .FOR RECOt',.ST CJ:'r,- T,jJ   PM.,E'3Pfl,TT
REPORT AND RECOI,MNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
VOLTA RIVER AUJTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$6.0 million to the
Volta River Authority (VRA), to be guaranteed by the Republic of Ghana.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In February 1962, the Bank made a loan of US$47 million to
assist in financing the construction of a major hydroelectric project
on the Volta River, which included the construction of a dam, power
station (with four units installed totaling 588 liM) and transmission
facilities to permit bulk sales of power to an aluminum smelter, several
large mining enterprises and the Electricity Corporation of Ghana (EGG),
which provides power supply for 7eneral consumption.  Agencies of the
United Kingdom (iXport Credit Guarantee a-Lpartment) and the United States
(iz:port-Inport Bank and Agency for International Development) partici-
pated in the financing of the project.  The project was completed in
early 1966 about one year ahead of schedule and at considerable savings
on the original cost estimates.
3.        The viability of the original Volta project rested to a
large extent on the construction of an aluminum reduction plant (smelter)
at Tema by the Volta Aluminium Company Limited (Valco), which is jointly
ow<ned by Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation and Reynolds Hetals
Companyr.  Valco utilizes the bulk of Volta power and is VRA's principal
consumer, currently accounting for 75 per cent of its sales and 52 per
cent of its revenues.  At the time of the original loan, VRA and Valco
entered into a power contract which provides, among other things, that
Valco would purchase or pay for a specified msinimum amount of power and
that such minimum amount would escalate with the increased power that
VR.A was to provide in future under the contract.  To meet the increased
power requirements of Valco under the terms of this contract, VRA needs
to install additional generating capacity by April 1972 at the latest,
and work on the expansion project must begin now if VRA is to meet its
contractual obligations.
4.        In view of this, VRA approached the Bankc in 1967 for assis-
tance in financing the fifth and sixth generating units which would
increase the installed capacity of the power plant to 882 .>IW and enable
VRA to meet its contractual obligation to provide additional power to
the smelter as well as provide needed power for domestic consumption



- 2 -
and for the e yortung of power f-om Ghana to Togo an" Dahomey over a
transmission line to be constructed with assistance from the Canadian
Government. The proposed expansion project was appraised in July-August
1968, and negrotiations were held in W.iashington in ivairch 1969.  The
negotiators for the VThS and the Fepublic of Ghana were i@k. E. L. Quartey,
Chief &cecutive, VRA; His T-cellency _. M. Debrah, Armbassador of Ghana
to the United States;  Hr. E. A. X. Kalitsi, Director of Finance, VRA;
S. i. -. I. izeble, Counsel, VPA, and Ar. G. K. G. Aiwnyo, Attorney
General's 0Ojfice.
5.        The folloiring is a summry statement of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits to Ghana as of April 30, 1969:
Loan or                                        Amount   (US$ million)
Credit .To.  Year   Borrower      Purpose      Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
310 G.i    1962      VRA        Power        47.0               .1
llo GI     1968   Republic of   Power distri-       10.0       7.6
Gliana        bution
Total (less cancellations)                47.0   lOo0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                       2.1
Total now outstanding                     44.)
Amoumt soldl                   .1
of which has been repaid     .1          --
Total now hcld by Bank and IDA           4).9    10.0
Total undisbursed                           .1     7.6      7.7
The construction work for the poweer distribution project financed by
C:_edit 'o. 11 G&-I is progressing satisfactorily.  The ECG had had
difficulties on its accounting and financial side, but has now taken
remedial measures suggested by IDA including employment of a firm of
consultants and a oualified chief accountant.
6.        The proposed loan  ould be the third Bank Group financing in
Ghana.  Three other projects are currently in an advanced stage of
ne_otiation and preparation and are expected to be presented to tile
L-ecutive Directors w-ithin the next few months;  these Jnclude a
fisheries project, a higlhway engineering project and a wiater supply
and sewerage project.



- 3 -
PA-IT II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOA1
7.        BORROITL2'S:         Volta River Authority
GUARA`TTO'i:         itepublic of Ghana
AiHOIMTT:            Equivalent in various currencies
of us$6.0 raillion
PURPOSE:             To assist in financing the foreign
exchange cost of the expansion of
the Volta Project, which consists
of two additional generating units
and ancillary facilities
ATO,RMTIZATIOK:      In 25 years including a 10-year
period of :race, throu,h semiannual
installments beginning on June 15,
1979 and endin;- June 15, 1994
1iT-RIST RATE:       Six and one-half per cent per annum
C.L=,Ty:-  CHARGE:   Three-quarters of one per cent
PART III - TH?, PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of Volta Expansion
Project" (PU-8a) is attached.
9.        The project to wihich the Bank would contribute forms the
major portion of VLIA's US$21.9 million overall expansion program for
1969-72, which, in adclition to the project, includes the constiruction
o- a transmission line to the Togo border as part of an international
scheme to e,port power from Ghana to Togo andl Dahomey (to be financed
b,v Canada) and third double circuit transmission line from Akosombo to
Volta (Tema) Substation (to be financed by an Italian loan).
10.       The proJect consists of the purchase and installation of the
fifth and si,cth generating units, which would bringZ the Akosombo powqer
plant to its ultimate planned capacity of 882 1%T, auxiliary equipment
ancd necessa-y consulting services. The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$144. million, of which the foreign e.change component
is about US$12.2 million. VRA will contribute the equivalent of US$2.21
million from its own resources, while the remainder would come from
external sources as indicated in the follolang paragraphs.



11.       The purchase of generators, step-up transformers, ancillary
electrical and substation equipment and the foreign erchange costs of
the installation of such eqtuipment would be financed by a Canadian loan
equivalent to US$5.43 million. The four existing generators at Akosornbo,
w,hich wrere procure d on the basis of international competitive bidding,
are of Canadian manufacture.  The additional generators would be pur-
chased in Canada from the same manufacturer. The Canadian contribution
would be made available to the Government of Ghana on concessional terms
(50 years repayment free of interest) and would be onlent to the VIA at
2-1/2 per cent for 30 years.  These terms are in accordance with Thana
Government's normal. practice in making loans to statutory corporations.
The entry into force of the Canadian loan wiill be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Bank loan.
12.       VRA has en.a-ed the services of Kaiser Engineers and Contrac-
tors, Incorporated, the consultants for the original project, to provide
consulting engineering services related to the installation of the two
additional generating units.  The foreign exchange cost of these services
(US$0.65 riillion) will be financed by the United States A:;ency for
Intertnational Development out of the undisbursed portion of its original
Volta loan.
1.3.      The proposed Bank loan would finance the purchase and installa-
tion of the turbines and ancillaiy equipment such as valves and gover-
nors.  It would also provide finance for substation equipment at Volta
(Tema), Sekondi-Takoradi and i'winasi, transforfiieis, maintenance vehicles
and consulting services for review of future expansion plans and for
ranagement and training assistance.  Procurement o° items financed under
the Bank loan (other than consulting services) would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding, and disbursements would be made only
for th  actual forei: n exchan;e cost of equipment, installation and
servict .s.
Ill.      Part of the additional power from the expansion of VRTA gener-
ating facilities would be sold to Valco. Valco will install a fourth pot-
line thereby increasing its annual production capacity from 115,000 metric
tons to 150,000 :otric town ot aluminum by 1972-73. Valco is proceeding wiuh
arrang.ements to finance this expansion, and they will have to be con-
cluded prior to ef°ectiveness of the proposed Bank loan.  The fourth
potline is expected to be in operation by April 1972 at the latest when
the additional power required wrill be availabl_. The larger capacity
of the power plant vwill also enable the V2A to meet increased demands
from inajor mining cormpanies and ECG. It is estimated that V:RA's total
available capacity will be fully utilized by 1977 when additional sources
of power will have to be provided.
15.       T,he project is well conceived and is technically and finan-
cially sound. The forecast revenues for the period 1969-77 are satis-
factory, and VRA is expected. to achieve the 6 per cent return oil thie
uoveirnmentls equity in the power operation by 1974, as envisag.ed under



- 5 -
the terms of the Loan No. 310 GH. The rate of return of 26 per cent on
the incremental investment and an avera-e rate o0' return of 7.3 per cent
during 1969-77 on net fixed assets in operation are considered adequate.
PART IV - L3-GAL INSTRHU-1VINTS AND AUTHORITY
The draft Loan A7reement between the 3ank and VRA, the draft
Guarantee A;,reement between the Republic of Ghana and tlhe Bank, the
Report of the gommaittee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed Loan are being distributed to the Drecutive Directors separately.
17.       The dc-aft Loen A;,reement follows generallyr the pattern of the
ag,reement fo- the Banl' s earlier loan to VIRA (Loan N1o. 310 GH). In
addition to provisions usual for powier projects, the draft Loan Pgree-
nent contains certain provisions of special interest:
(a)  Section 5.09 sets forth V11A's obligation to earn
an annual return of u per cent be-innin, in 1974,
referred to in para:raph 15, above.
(b)  Section 5.11 reouires VRA to take all reasonable
action necessarr to raintain in force and to secure
the performance by the part-:es concerned of the
arrangements and agreements relating to the
construction, operation, financing and expansion of
V2A's power facilities and the Valco smelter.
(c)  in order to safe-uard the finances and the efficiency
of VRAi s pow.er g-eneration and transmission operations,
.ction 5.15 sets forth certain a,reements of VRA
wsith respect to the conduct of its operations and
activities wlhich are not related to the generation
and transrnission of power.
(d)  Sections 6.02 and 6.03 permit the Bank to suspend,
and in certain circumstances to premature, the Loan
upon the occurrence of designated events involvino
the suspension, release or miiodification of the
obligations of parties to the arrangements
and agreements relating to the construction, opera-
tion, financing and expansion of VJZAUs power facili-
ties and the Valco smelter.
18.       Tlhe draft Guarantee Agreeinent contains the usual clauses and
repeats certain provisions re;garding action on Glhana's part with respect
to certain documents and agreements (Sections 3.05 and 3.07) an- limnrta-
tions on further matjor power projects (Section 3.06) contained in the
Gularantee A-reement for the earlier Bank loan.



- 6 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.       A report on "The Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Ghanall (AW-6a) was circulated to the Executive Directors on May 7, 1969,
20.       The two salient features of Ghana's econor are its critical
dependence on cocoa, of which it is the world's largest supplier, and
the heavy burden of external debt inherited from the Nkrumah regime.
Cocoa normally provides about two-thirds of Ghana's export earmings
and, directly and indirectly, the bulk of government revenues. IWide
fluctuations of world cocoa prices have made financial management of the
econory very difficult, and in the absence of an international cocoa
agreement cocoa prices will continue to behave erratically.
21.       As of the end of 1968, Ghana's external public debt amounted
to $490 million, consisting of $310 million of short- and medium-term
suppliers' and contractors' credits and $180 million in long-term debt,
of which about $138 million had been contracted since the change in
government in February 1966. As part of a coordinated international
assistance, payments on the short- and medium-term debts have been
rescheduled twice -- once in 1966 and for the second time in 1968.
While providing some temporary relief, the deferment of payment obli-
gations will bring about heavy debt service requirements in the years
1973 to 1978 inclusive, when payments will average around $55 million
annually, representing 12 per cent of export earnings projected for
around 1973. This takes no account of any service obligations arising
out of new debt that Zay meanwhile be incurred.
22.       In the three-year period since the change of government in
February 1966, Ghana has made good progress in dealing with the conse-
quences of the mistakes of the past and in promoting economic recovery.
The economy grew at a rate of 3-4 per cent in 1967 and 1968 after having
experienced three successive years of stagnation; improvements in the
terms of trade and rapid growth in manufacturing output contributed
to this upswing which would no doubt have been even more marked but
for the adverse effects of the catastrophic rains in 1968 on the output
and marketing of cocoa and other agricultural produce. Fiscal disci-
pline has been restored and the external balance of payments has
improved although the latter remains precarious since net foreign
assets at the end of 1968 were the equivalent of only three weeks'
imports and, as mentioned before, foreign exchange earnings tend to
fluctuate markedly.
23.       Over the next few years the economic situation is likely to
improve considerably as a result of higher cocoa prices which should
favorably affect national income, government revenues and foreign ex-
change earnings. Cocoa prices are expected to remain high over the
medium term owing to the tight supply situation and the need to replenish
seriously depleted stocks. However, long-term prospects for cocoa are



- 7 -
not very bright, and on the whole Ghana's natural endowment is not par-
ticularly impressive. Some diversification of agriculture is possible
but experience demonstrates that progress in agriculture is lik-ely to be
slow, particularly considering all the measures that are necessary to
offer appropriate incentives and to organize the essential marketing,
credit and extension services. Some further in-rease in the extraction
and processing of timber is possible, but the forestry resources of the
country are limited. Largely on the basis of investment already made,
man,ufacturing can be expected to expand, but the domestic market is
rather small and an export market for manufactures is unlikely to develop
rapidly. The recent Bank mission estimates that the annual growth in
GDP during the 1969-73 period may be of the order of 4 per cent.
24.       To make even this modest growth possible Ghana wnl require a
substantial inflow of resourcos to finance an increase in investment,
part t.cularly in agriculture, power and road transport. With heavy
maturities of past borrowings to be met and with considerable amounts
of fresh money to be raised, it is important that Glhana be enabled to
borrow a substantial part of its requirements on concessional terms.
If this can be done, there should remain some scope for borrowing on
conventional terms, particularly if there can be a somewhat extended
grace period before reDayments start.  On this basis, Ghana can be
regarded as creditworthy for modest amounts of Bmak lending.
PART VI - COIPLIAiKCE T'1ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEJAENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VTI - RECOITflENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Wlashington, D. C.
May 22, 1969



