                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 37787

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-36110 FSLT-71000)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.8 MILLION
                       (US$1.14 MILLION LOAN & SDR2.2 MILLION CREDIT)

                                                    TO

                                               GRENADA

                                                FOR AN

                                 EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                            December 1, 2006




Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 2006)

                            Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                                     EC 1 = US$ .37
                                    US$ 1 = EC 2.70

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CCTV   Closed Circuit Television
DCA    Directorate of Civil Aviation
FAA    Federal Aviation Administration
ERP    Emergency Recovery Project
ICAO   International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA    International Development Association
IMO    International Maritime Organization
ISPS   International Ship and Port Security
OECS   Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
TSA    Transportation Security Agency




                           Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                         Country Director     Caroline D. Anstey
                           Sector Manager     Jack Stein
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Francis Ghesquiere

                                          GRENADA
                                Emergency Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P077682                                                  Project Name: Grenada Emergency Recovery Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 1, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Grenada Emergency Recovery Project                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-36110; FSLT-71000
   Country/Department: GRENADA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (41%); Aviation (40%); Ports, waterways and shipping (12%); Central government
                            administration (7%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/26/2001                                     Effective: 07/18/2002                07/22/2002
     Appraisal: 01/17/2002                                         MTR: 02/25/2004                  02/25/2004
      Approval: 03/07/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GRENADA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND MINISTRY
                                           OF COMMUNICATION AND WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Maria Emilia Freire
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Arnaud Guinard
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The original objectives of the project were to: (i) help safeguard and maintain the productive
    capacity of Grenada's tourism sector, notably by securing the industry's energy needs in the
    aftermath of the September 11, 2001 events; (ii) enhance security at key airport and seaport
   facilities in line with international standards, with the aim of preventing further acts of
   terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region's image as a safe tourism destination; and (iii)
   strengthen the country's institutional capacity to develop and implement security plans,
   procedures and measures as mandated by the international civil aviation and maritime
   transport regulatory agencies.

   The Grenada Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) is part of a 5 country emergency recovery
   program. Other Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) nations, including St.
   Vincent and the Grenadines, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and Dominica took part in the
   program.     Project documentation for the program comprises one Memorandum of the
   President and one Technical Annex (in accordance to BP/OP 8.50 procedures) for the five
   participating countries.

   Recognizing the limits to implementation capacity at the individual country level, as well as
   the economies of scale from enhanced regional coordination, the Bank focused lending efforts
   on selective interventions with strong regional synergies - while remaining cognizant of the
   need to address individual country's needs. By ensuring a common framework for project
   preparation across the OECS countries, and delivery of training and technical assistance
   through sub-region-wide arrangements, the ERP helped promote greater sub-regional
   cooperation while making full use of country implementation capacity in project coordination
   units.

   Project objectives were clearly stated. Supporting a sub-regional recovery program in OECS
   countries, the project aimed to reestablish and secure the productivity of the tourism sector in
   the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The objectives were responsive to
   the Borrower's concerns, based on limited understanding of the ramifications of such a
   terrorist event. The project was designed to support the overall June 4, 2001 Country
   Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives to reduce poverty through human and institutional
   development. Creating the conditions for rapid recovery, while also supporting opportunities
   for medium-term growth in the tourism sector, the project intended to reduce poverty by
   providing direct assistance to mitigate income vulnerability and insecurity. Institutional
   development focused on developing capacity for greater security in the island's critical air and
   sea-transport linkages.




                                               - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The project objectives were revised in September 2004 through a formal amendment to the
    Loan and Credit Agreements. This amendment reallocated US$450,000 of the loan/credit to
    maintain critical fuel imports necessary for the emergency recovery operation implemented by
    the Borrower following heavy damages caused by the passage of Hurricane Ivan on
    September 7, 2004. This revision reflected not only the occurrence of a new emergency
    situation, but also the availability of resources due to some savings in the implementation of
    the project.

3.3 Original Components:

    The project consisted of the three components listed below:

    Critical Imports (US$1,500,000 or 35 percent of the total project costs) to finance solely low
    sulfur diesel fuel for electricity generation, which is critical to the maintenance of economic
    activity in the tourism industry by ensuring that energy-intensive tourism facilities are kept
    operational during the recovery period.

    Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement (US$2,525,000 or 60 percent of total project
    costs): (a) civil works to upgrade perimeter fencing and roadway, and improve access to key
    facilities, (b) security equipment, including communication, passenger and luggage screening
    machines, identification (badge) and surveillance systems, and (c) institutional capacity
    building, including technical assistance and training to develop and implement security
    programs, emergency and contingency plans at airports and seaports.

    Implementation Support (US$235,000 or 5 percent of total project costs) to assist the
    Borrower in meeting its project management obligations through the strengthening of an
    existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

    The original components were structured to meet the project objectives.             The largest
    allocation of funds was made for enhancing security at airports and seaports, a key focus of
    the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

    In line with the revised objectives, US$450,000 was reallocated to finance critical fuel imports
    necessary for the emergency recovery operation implemented by the borrower following the
    devastating passage of Hurricane Ivan on September 7, 2004.




                                                 - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

    The Grenada Emergency Recovery Project was prepared as part of a regional
    security-enhancement program incorporating five nations in the OECS. Each project shared
    the same objectives and structure. A QAG panel reviewed the quality at entry of the Dominica
    ERP (and in effect the five country program) on June 6, 2002 and found it to be satisfactory.

    It was difficult to predict the unique affects of the 9/11 terrorist attack on the OECS region.
    In response to this potential variability, project objectives were broadly defined and
    components flexibly structured to adapt and evolve in response to country needs and changing
    security requirements.

    As very limited expertise on transportation security existed within the Bank, the project design
    relied heavily on a detailed assessment carried out by a renowned consulting firm specialized
    in air and maritime transport security issues. Key to project success was the establishment of a
    cohesive capacity building program at the sub-regional level. The OECS Directorate of Civil
    Aviation (DCA) was therefore involved early on in the project - recognizing that no similar
    institutional set up existed for the maritime transport sector.

    During project preparation, the option of hiring a procurement agent to handle procurement
    of security equipment on behalf of all islands was considered to facilitate standardization of
    specifications, packaging and procurement of equipment. In the end, the project relied on
    strengthening an existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage procurement, in line
    with the Borrower's desire to build on existing institutional capacity.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


    Overall, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    The first objective, safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of the country's
    tourism sector, was fully met through the disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy
    needs) immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped Grenada meet its
    tourism industry's energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and subsequent
    loss of tourism revenues.

    The second objective, enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with
    international standards, was mostly met. Nearly all civil works were completed (including
    repairs in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan, which struck in September 2004) and much of the
    equipment has been installed and is in use. One activity, the installation of a Main Security



                                                 - 4 -

   Gate at St. George's Port was not implemented under the project. An airport certification
   process has been carried out for Point Salines Airport by the Directorate of Civil Aviation
   (DCA) on behalf of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the International
   Ship and Port Security (ISPS) certification process for the main port of St. George's have
   been completed. All facilities currently meet all international security standards.

   The final objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacity was fully met with all
    training activities successfully completed, regulatory studies prepared for Government's
    approval and enactment of related legislation. In addition, an airport safety management
    study, which was not initially included under the project, has been prepared.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Critical Imports (Appraisal US$1.50 million/Actual US$1.91 million)

   The critical imports component is rated as highly satisfactory.

   The financing and disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs) was made
   immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped Grenada meet its tourism
   industry's energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and dampened the
   impact of the subsequent loss of tourism revenues.

   Security Enhancement at Ports and Airports (Appraisal US$2.53 million/Actual US$2.13
   million)

   The security enhancement component is rated satisfactory.

   Physical Improvements:

   The new fencing at Point Salines airport was completed in June 2004. However, 70 percent
   of the fence suffered damage during Hurricane Ivan, including about 40 percent of the portion
   already financed by the Bank. All repairs have now been completed and the perimeter fencing
   is compliant with ICAO standards. Several improvements, including the enclosure of the
   departure area and a new checked baggage screening area, have been completed. Some
   changes to the check-in counter area required for the installation of the Common User
   Terminal Equipment were also carried out under the project.

   The installation of an access control gate at the main entrance of St. Georges Port was
   delayed due to damaged equipment and increased traffic in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan.
   At the time of project closing, the Main Gate had not yet been installed.




                                               - 5 -

Security Equipment:

Most security equipment originally included in the project has been procured, installed and is
in use at both port and airport facilities. Some additional equipment has also been purchased
toward the end of the project with project savings, including security enhancement equipment.
Full details can be found under the Output Indicators of Annex 1.

Closed Circuit Television systems at the airport and the seaport have been installed. Due to
difficulties in finalizing specifications and lack of detailed installation design, the
implementation of these systems was delayed and ended up being more costly than originally
planned. As a result, the closing date had to be extended by one year. At project completion
both the port and airport systems are fully operational. In retrospect, the option of using a
single design, supply and installation contract for the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) could
have resulted in a more rapid implementation.

Institutional Capacity Building:

To ensure a coherent approach and consistency of programs, this component was
implemented by the DCA on behalf of all participating countries. All modules for executive
and operational training have been successfully completed. Train-the-trainer courses were
held in December 2003 in Antigua, with two candidates from Grenada having completed the
course, and a third having passed with distinction. An Aviation Security Training was held in
March 2004 in Grenada. Of the 27 participants, 75 percent passed with distinction, 18
percent passed to completion and 7 percent did not complete the course. At the same time,
the participants also attended a Maritime Security Program.          Some 86 percent of the
participants passed with distinction, 7 percent passed to completion and 7 percent did not
complete the course.

A comprehensive Regulatory Review for Enhanced Security covering both the civil aviation
and maritime sectors in Grenada has been completed. This has helped the authorities take a
full account of the ICAO and International Maritime Organization (IMO) requirements and
identify potential deficiencies and areas for improvement. A draft National Transportation
Security Plan has also been developed for Grenada, as well as a Port Security Plan. Both
plans have been reviewed by the respective competent authorities and are awaiting legislative
approval.

Following the Bank's mid-term in-depth technical review on February 25, 2004, the
Government agreed to use part of the project savings to finance a safety management study
for the airport. This additional study has recently been completed and is being reviewed by
the relevant authorities.




                                             - 6 -

   Project Management (Appraisal US$0.24 million/Actual US$0.14 million)

    The project management component is rated marginally satisfactory.

    The Project Coordination Unit was staffed with a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Officer,
    a Project Accountant, an Administrative Assistant and two junior assistants. As the PCU also
    handled two other Bank-financed projects, some office equipment and furniture was provided
    to facilitate its operations. As a result of high staff turnover in the PCU, the unit suffered
    from a lack of cohesiveness and institutional memory. Over the course of three years, the
    project had 4 Project Coordinators, 3 Procurement Officers and 3 Project Accountants. Lack
    of stability affected the unit's performance and morale, leading to some delays in
    implementation.       While some delays in procurement occurred, financial reporting was
    generally of good quality and all audit reports were submitted on time.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate the economic rate of return for this type of project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate the financial rate of return for this type of project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    The Institutional development impact is judged to be substantial.

    Despite the passage of Hurricane Ivan, tourist arrivals, particularly cruises, have picked up
    since 2002. Greater stability (no major terrorist attack in the USA since the September 11th
    events) and the diversion of tourism to destinations closer to the USA (i.e. the Caribbean) may
    well explain this trend. In any event, improved confidence in the security at the country's key
    airport and seaport facilities brought in by the project is an important contributing factor to
    this positive development.

    At project completion, the Point Salines airport can be rated as an excellent facility with
    generally good security and controls. Its security force is trained by three ICAO certified
    trainers. The Government is committed to maintaining ICAO requirements and the airport
    authorities have a clear and proactive agenda towards security. The US Transportation
    Security Agency (TSA) recently reviewed past security assessments and concluded that
    positive changes and improvements have occurred at airports. British Airways conducted an
    audit in October 2003 and reported that airport security was significantly better than before.
    The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has also indicated that post 9/11 steps have been
    positive. Four out of five air carriers recently surveyed by the DCA have stated that security
    has improved at airports, with two of the surveys having marked security as greatly improved.

    Regarding St. George's port, the Port Authority has developed a Port Security Plan and
    received its ISPS certification. The authorities have made several improvements to the port
    operations despite being hampered by the impact of Hurricane Ivan. The Port Authority


                                                 - 7 -

    remains fully committed to meeting regulatory requirements and is seeking further assistance
    to this end.

    At the broader sub-regional level, several positive developments are also worth noting in the
    context of project implementation. The DCA has recently become responsible for oversight of
    the OECS countries as the Civil Aviation Authority. A new Civil Aviation Act has been
    circulated among all OECS countries. The concept of a harmonized aviation regulatory
    framework for all OECS countries has also been endorsed by ICAO.

    Without ICAO endorsement, which was only earned as a result of the project, OECS
    countries would currently be unable to accept international flights. Without the arrival of these
    flights, the tourism industry would have suffered a tremendous blow. Therefore, the project
    enabled OECS governments to take advantage of the increase in tourist visits over the past
    few years, an opportunity that has had a positive impact on poverty reduction and overall
    development.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Transportation sector regulations for air and maritime security changed rapidly in the months
    following the events of 9/11. International regulations underwent several revisions, making it
    mandatory for countries to implement new standards as they emerged. In some cases, revised
    or new standards resulted in new demands and/or cost increases that were not originally
    forecast under the project. This ever-changing situation made it difficult to implement some of
    the project components. Policies and legislation continue to evolve, particularly in the
    maritime sector. Regulatory reviews and counterpart funds to conduct sub-regional training
    (from the institutional capacity-building component under the responsibility of the DCA) were
    initially delayed due to slow mobilization in Antigua.

    In addition, the passage of Hurricane Ivan in September 2004 caused damage to the airport
    fence and disrupted project operations at the port due to increased traffic in the aftermath of
    this event. As a result of additional works required and some delays, the closing date was
    extended by one year.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    The departure of the PCU coordinator at a critical juncture of project implementation created
    some confusion and delays in implementation. This could have been avoided if government
    had reacted more swiftly and designated a replacement with strong management skills.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    Management changes at the helm of the PCU resulted in some staffing and contract renewal
    problems that had an impact on the quality of project coordination and the pace of
    implementation. These issues subsided when the former PCU coordinator and an experienced
    procurement officer were hired towards the end of project execution.



                                                     - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

    There were some important variations of costs compared to original estimates. The cost of
    some physical improvements and security equipment was sometimes overestimated at the time
    of appraisal. Given the sudden high demand for them, it proved difficult to evaluate the cost
    of some security items immediately after the September 11th events. Project savings were
    generated and used to either compensate for cost underestimates of some equipment (e.g.
    CCTV systems) or to finance additional equipment (e.g. communication equipment). Project
    savings were also partly reallocated to respond to urgent needs after Hurricane Ivan in
    September 2004.

    At project completion, total project costs amount to US$4.21 million compared to US$4.5
    million at appraisal. Final project financing is US$3.86 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    Overall project sustainability is likely.

    Currently, the port and airport authorities have made sufficient provision for continued
    budgetary and institutional support to maintain their respective infrastructure and security
    equipment. Since these authorities have a direct incentive and involvement in the maintenance
    of their investments, sustainability of infrastructure and equipment is likely. In addition, as the
    training provided has been quite successful and the proposed regulatory framework has been
    well prepared to the satisfaction of the authorities, the sustainability of the institutional
    capacity component is likely. Notwithstanding these achievements, the ability to maintain a
    cadre of qualified staff to operate and update knowledge on the various security systems
    implemented under the project is more questionable unless follow on training programs are
    carried out. Likewise, the implementation of the recommendations contained in the regulatory
    assessment reports will require strong political commitment from the Government as well as
    further technical assistance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    All physical resources have been delivered to and/or installed at the respective entity. All
    security equipment contracts include a two-year warranty and the provision of adequate spare
    parts. Where appropriate, personnel have been trained in the use and maintenance of the
    equipment.      Management and operational security personnel have also been trained in the
    discharge of their security duties, in line with emerging international standards and best
    practices relevant to their respective operations.




                                                  - 9 -

    In general, equipment has been put to use immediately on delivery and commissioning.
    Security personnel have been able to use the newly acquired knowledge and skills for the
    benefit of their respective entities and the country as a whole.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

    Given the urgency and almost no previous experience port and airport security, Bank
    performance for lending is considered satisfactory.

    Immediately after the September 11th events, the Bank was able to mobilize and coordinate
    specialized expertise to respond to a unique event that had unpredictable impacts. It also
    played a key role in coordinating the design of the recovery program in the OECS countries.
    The project was prepared and processed quickly. It was designed with a flexible structure and
    similar components as in neighboring islands to ensure a coherent approach at the sub-regional
    level.

7.2 Supervision:


    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    Supervision was flexible and responsive to a changing environment and new institutional
    requirements.    There were eleven supervision missions during the three and a half year
    implementation period, including a mid-term review in February 2004. Most supervision
    missions included staff with strong procurement and disaster management skills. In addition,
    the Bank commissioned a final in depth technical review of the project by civil aviation and
    maritime experts. The mid-term and final independent reviews were extremely useful and
    helped implementing agencies address critical issues and adjust their program accordingly.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's response to an event that had unforeseeable impacts was timely, rapid and flexible
    throughout the project cycle. The Bank was also very responsive to take into account
    emerging needs in an evolving regulatory environment and to accommodate new emergency
    needs into the project when they occurred.




                                                 - 10 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


    Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

    Government recognized quickly the consequences of the September 11 events on its tourism
    sector and sought Bank assistance to mitigate potential negative impacts. It worked very
    closely with the Bank during preparation to allow for a speedy approval of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

    On balance, government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

    At the outset, Government worked diligently to declare the loan and credit effective, and to
    provide for sufficient counterpart funding. Government support for the project did not,
    however, remain as strong following management changes at the PCU that occurred at a
    critical period of project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Overall implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.

    After a good performance at the beginning of the project, the PCU experienced internal
    staffing problems and some delays in procurement due to management turnover. However,
    the performance of the PCU improved substantially towards the end of the project.

    Implementation of the physical improvement and security equipment component was mainly
    carried out by the Port and Airport Authorities with adequate institutional support. Faced
    with a rapidly evolving regulatory environment and difficulties in finalizing technical
    specifications of equipment, both authorities were nevertheless able to provide adequate
    technical inputs and management supervision skills during project execution.

    Implementation of the institutional capacity building component was the responsibility of the
    OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) on behalf of the countries. Despite its limited
    human and financial resources, and having to deal with maritime security issues which were
    beyond the scope of its responsibilities, the DCA was always pro-active and performed well
    its coordination and support role for the implementation of the institutional capacity
    component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.




                                               - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned


   The Bank is well positioned to respond to similar emergencies in the future. The Bank's
   judgment to engage in this emergency operation was well-founded. The country team
   immediately recognized the paradigm shift following the 9/11 events. It identified emerging
   needs and engaged client countries in immediate action. Because of its capacity to identify,
   mobilize and implement key activities in record time, the Bank emerged as a key partner in an
   area where it had no specific engagement prior to the terrorist attack.

   The Bank can play an active role to assist countries in meeting established and evolving
   regulatory standards. Though it did not have all the required know-how "in house," the Bank
   effectively and successfully procured outside expertise to ensure that participating countries
   could meet evolving standards. In-depth technical reviews conducted by independent experts
   also proved particularly useful to ensure successful and flexible project implementation.

   There can be significant advantages to implementing multi-country programs through a
   regional entity with sufficient capacity. The project greatly benefited from the support of the
   Department of Civil Aviation--the regional agency that coordinated training and institutional
   strengthening activities. Such an agency was not only well positioned to establish and apply
   regional standards and policies, but also greatly benefited from having a regional project, as it
   contributed to the agency's legitimacy and institutional development.

   Regional procurement can bring important cost-benefits. Participating governments greatly
   benefited from the coordinated procurement of policy development and training activities.
   Additional benefit could have been derived, however, from the joint-purchase of key
   equipment. In addition to obvious economies of scale resulting from simplified processes,
   larger orders and reduced shipping costs--maintenance services could have been procured at
   a reduced price to preserve highly technical project equipment. Expensive spare parts could
   have been purchased in bulk and a single-firm could have been contracted to carry-out
   required maintenance work in all participating countries.

   Emergency projects benefit from close supervision. The Emergency Recovery Project in
   Grenada was successful in great part thanks to the close and regular supervision of the Bank
   team. This was made possible by grouping supervision of five similar projects in the region,
   thereby creating significant economies of scale. With pooled supervision funds, the team was
   able to visit all participating islands on a single mission while paying transportation costs only
   once. Had this not been the case, the Bank team would not have had the funds required to be
   closely involved in project implementation ­ to the detriment of the project.




                                                  - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    Introduction

    The Grenada Emergency Recovery Project is part of a sub-regional emergency recovery
    programme implemented in the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) Countries.
    The programme was geared towards assisting the Government of the respective countries in
    the safeguarding and maintenance of productive capacity, in the Tourism Sector in the
    aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States of America.

    Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and Quality at Entry

    Original Objectives

    The original objectives of the project were:

    (a) Securing the country's energy needs in the aftermath of the events of September 11, 2001;

    (b) Enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with international standards,
    with the aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and safeguarding the country's (and the
    region's) image as a safe tourist destination; and

    (c) Strengthening the country's capacity to develop and implement security plans, procedures
    and measures as mandated by the International Civil Aviation and Maritimes Transport
    Regulatory Agencies.

    Revision of Objectives

    Following the passage of Hurricane Ivan in September 2004, the original objectives of the
    Project were revised in order to enable the country to address the emergency situation. The
    revisions were outlined in a formal amendment to the Loan and Credit Agreements, which
    provided for the reallocation of US$450,000.00 of the Loan and Credit amounts to maintain
    Critical Fuel imports.

    Revision of Components

    In accordance with the amendment to the Loan and Credit Agreements and the revision of
    objectives, US$450,000 was reallocated to finance Critical Fuel imports which were
    determined to be necessary for the emergency recovery operations implemented by the
    Government of Grenada following Hurricane Ivan in September, 2004.




                                                - 13 -

Quality at Entry

Assessment carried out in the OECS sub-region aimed at determining the impact of the events
of September 11, 2001 on the individual States and the ability of the States to cope with the
impacts and prevent or reduce the likelihood of similar events in the region concluded that the
economies of individual States and the sub-region as a whole were affected negatively.

The quality at entry of the Grenada ERP was determined to be satisfactory.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

Both the original and revised objectives of the project were substantially achieved.

· The objective of the safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of the country
was fully met through the provision of critical imports of fuel oil for energy needs and critical
fuel imports in the aftermath of Hurricane Ivan in September, 2001;

· The objective of enhancing security at the Airport and Seaport in line with international
standards was substantially met. All civil works were completed. Closed Circuit Television
Systems (CCTV) have been installed at the Airport and Seaport. An airport certification
process has been carried out by the Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) on behalf of the
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the International Ship and Port Security
(ISPS) Certification process at the St. George's Port which both entities passed. Mechanisms
have been put in place to substantially satisfy relevant international standards.

· The objective of strengthening the country's institutional capacity was fully met through
the successful completion of training activities and the conduct of regulatory studies with
recommendation for enactment into legislation. An Airport Safety Management Study was
also completed with recommendation for implementation thereof.

Output by Component

Critical Imports

The financing of Critical Import of fuel oil for energy needs prior to Hurricane Ivan and in the
aftermath of the Hurricane had a positive impact on the country in that it helped the country in
meeting its energy needs and assisted in cushioning the impact of the Hurricane.

Security Enhancement

Physical Improvement
Physical improvements included the completion of new fencing at the Point Salines
International Airport in June, 2004. Although seventy (70) percent of the fence (including



                                            - 14 -

40% of the portion financed by the Project) was damaged by Hurricane Ivan, repairs to the
damaged fencing were quickly undertaken and the facility is presently completed fenced in
compliance with ICAO standards. . Other physical improvements undertaken included the
enclosure of the departure area and a new baggage screening area.

Up to the present, all equipment and accessories for an Access Control Gate at the entrance to
the St. George's Port have been procured, and arrangements have been finalised for
completion of installation of the system.

Security Equipment
Closed Circuit Television Systems have been installed at the Airport and Seaport and are
operational.    In spite of the delays, these systems have contributed significantly to
improvements in security and have assisted general operations.

In general, security equipment which was originally included in the Project has been procured
and installed at both the Air and Sea Ports facilities and is operational. This includes the
purchasing of two (2) security vehicles for the airports. Savings originally realised on the
project were used to finance additional equipment and/or those damaged during the passage
of Hurricane Ivan.

Institutional Capacity Building
Grenada benefited from regional training programmes adminitered by DCA on behalf of all
participating countries. These training programmes/courses included:

(i) Training of Trainers Courses held in Antigua in December, 2003;

(ii) Aviation Security Training held in Grenada in March, 2004; and

(iii)Training in Maritime Security

Other specific benefits to Grenada included:

(i) A comprehensive Regulatory Review for Enhanced Security has been completed;

(ii) A draft National Transportation Security Plan and a Port Security Plan have been
developed. These have been reviewed and accepted by local authorities and are to be enacted
into legislation.

Project Management

Project Management was negatively impacted by the resignation of key staff in all areas
including: Coordination, Procurement and Financial Management. These turnovers in turn
negatively impacted on the rate of implementation.




                                           - 15 -

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors outside of the Control of the Government

Changes in international standards which occurred in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001
attacks in the United States made it difficult for the Government of Grenada and local
authorities to remain current with respect to meeting and maintaining international standards.
In addition, the frequent changes after September 11, 2001 placed a financial burden on
Governments.

Factors which were subject to Government's Control

Some of the factors which contributed to delays in project implementation were within the
control of the Government. These factors included:

(i) Rapid turnover of PCU Staff;

(ii) Delays in approval of tender awards by the Tenders Board and Cabinet;

(iii)Ineffective coordination between relevant entities such as the PCU, the Airport Authority
and the Port Authority.

Costs and Financing

Variations in actual costs in comparison to original estimates were the result of the difficulties
in costing several inputs during project preparation and appraisal in the aftermath of the events
of September 11. However, savings generated as a result of the over estimating of some costs
were re-allocated to compensate for cost underestimates, to finance additional equipment and
to respond to the country's pressing needs following Hurricane Ivan in September 2004.

Sustainability

Rationale for Sustainability Rating

Authorities at the Airport and Seaport have been integrally involved in the design and
implementation of the Project and in both cases (financial and in-kind) have to supplement the
provisions of the Project. In addition, both entities have made provisions for continued
financial support to the project particularly with respect to the maintenance of infrastructure
and security equipment. The keen interest shown by the authorities and their commitment of
resources is likely to contribute to the sustainability of infrastructure and equipment.
Additionally, the successful training programme and the planned legislative and regulatory
enactments should contribute to sustainability.




                                            - 16 -

Risks to sustainability include staff turnover and insufficient, ineffective political support.
However, the strong political and administrative support provided throughout the life of the
project is not likely to wane.

Transition Arrangements in Regular Operations

All physical resources have been delivered to or installed at the respective entities. All
security equipment contracts including a two (2) year warranty and the provision of adequate
spare parts have been executed successfully. The provision of physical resources including
equipment has been complemented by relevant training. Training has also been conducted in
other areas including security.

Management and technical personnel at both the Seaport and Airport have reported
satisfaction except for the correction of snags. They have indicated significant improvements
in related areas of operations as a result of the Project.

Bank/Borrower Performances

Lending

The Bank's lending performance under this Project is rated satisfactory. The Bank was bale
to mobilize all relevant technical resources including specialized expertise to respond very
quickly to an unforeseen catastrophic development, which had impacted negatively on the
social and economic fortunes of the countries of the OECS sub-region. The Bank's timely
intervention demonstrated a high degree of responsiveness, the level of flexibility built into the
Project and its cross-border characteristics, contributed significantly to the success achieved.
Shortcomings in Project design related to the restructured time were effectively addressed by
the ongoing consultations with the borrower, by effective and efficient supervision and by
adjustments to the Project in cases where such adjustments were determined to be necessary.

Supervision

Supervision is rated as effective. The relatively high frequency of supervision visits, the
expertise of the supervision teams, and the attention given to preparation for these visits by
both the Bank and the PCU contributed to a high level of success of these visits including the
level of effectiveness in addressing problems in project implementation. In addition to the
supervision visits, there was a high level of continuous interaction between the Bank and PCU
officials. This contributed greatly to the success achieved in implementation.

The mid-term and final independent reviews were also very useful in assisting relevant
agencies in ensuring that the Project remained on a successful implementation path.




                                             - 17 -

Overall Bank Performance

Overall Bank Performance is rated as highly satisfactory. This is amplified by the high level of
responsiveness in the aftermath of September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States
and the passage of Hurricane Ivan in September, 2004.

The significant attention given to institutional matters and project sustainability are also key
indicators of the quality of the Bank's performance.

Borrower

Preparation

The unforeseen nature of the events of September 7, 2004 and the limitations of the
Government with regards to the expertise required for the design, implementation and
monitoring of a project of this nature can be considered as limitations or constraints to
effective performance on this Project.

However, having recognised this, the Government worked closely with the Bank at every
stage of the Project contributing to timely design, approval and implementation and to
effective monitoring.

Government Implementation Performances

Government worked closely with the Bank from project design through to completion.
However, Government's performance was negatively affected by frequent changes in PCU
technical and administrative staff

Implementing Agency

The Project Coordination Unit maintained close collaboration with beneficiary agencies such
as the Grenada Airport Authority and the Grenada Ports (Seaports) Authority during the
entire life of the Project. Both entities were generally very supportive and cooperative in their
approach to the Project.

However, there were instances in which they were slow to respond to requests from the PCU
contributing to delays in the procurement and installation of equipment.

Overall Borrower Performances

Overall Borrower Performances is ranked satisfactory. However, the level of coordination
between the PCU and other stakeholders such as the Airport Authority and the Ports
Authorities could have been stronger.




                                             - 18 -

    Lessons Learned

    One (1) lesson learned is the need for the Bank and the Government to position themselves to
    respond to future emergencies, given that the decision to intervene after September 11, 2001
    and to carry our review after Hurricane Ivan (September 7, 2004) was justified by the
    outcomes at the Project.

    There is a need for Government to give greater attention to the legislative and regulatory
    framework as well as the mechanisms for coordination among entities involved in the
    provision of Ports (Airport and Seaport) Services.

    The Authorities of the Airport and Seaport need to put mechanisms in place to ensure that the
    respective entities remain up-to-date with the ever changing regulations in the international
    civil aviation and maritime environments.

    The Government need to ensure that the relevant mechanisms are in place to facilitate
    effective and efficient use of resources provided for successful implementation of projects and
    the objectives thereof.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Obtain ICAO certification                    Completed DCA security Audit and ICAO    Completed
                                             certification process




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel                       Purchased US$1.95 million of fuel        100% completed
Port Salines Airport Perimeter Fencing and   Fencing erected and post-Hurricane Ivan  100% completed
Road Improvement                             repairs completed
Construction of Baggage Screening Facilities Baggage screening facilities have been   100% completed
at Airport                                   constructed and are in use
ID Badging and Tracking System               Purchased and in use                     100% completed
Checked Baggage Screening Systems            Purchased and in use                     100% completed
Passenger and Hand Baggage Screening         Purchased and in use                     100% completed
Systems for Airport
Airport Security Patrol Vehicle (1)          Purchased and in use at airport          100% completed
Sniffers                                     canceled                                 canceled
Main Gate Access Control in St. George's     canceled                                 canceled
Port
Communications Equipment at the Airport      Purchased and in use                     100% completed
CCTV systems at Airport and Port             Purchased and in use                     100% completed
Executive Training                           3 executives benefited from training     100% completed
Security Operations Training                 27 participants                          93% passed
Specialized Training                         27 participants                          93% passed
TA: Regulatory Review for Enhanced           Review Executed                          100% completed
Security
Short Term Procurement Services              Work Executed                            100% completed

1End of project




                                                                - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel fuel                                   1.50            1.91           127
2. Security Enhancement at ports and airports
   a. Physical Improvement of Infrastructure                   0.82            0.70            85
   b. Security Equipment                                       1.40            1.26            90
   c.1. Institutional Capacity Building (training)             0.20            0.06            30
   c.2. Institutional Capacity Building (TA)                   0.11            0.11           100
3. Project Management                                          0.24            0.14            58


Total Baseline Cost                                            4.27            4.18
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.23
                         Total Project Costs                   4.50            4.18
                                           Front-end fee                       0.01
                   Total Financing Required                    4.50            4.19


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.92         0.00         0.00        0.92
                                    (0.00)           (0.58)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.58)
2. Goods                             1.30             0.00         1.64         0.00        2.94
                                    (1.09)           (0.00)      (1.62)         (0.00)     (2.71)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         0.60         0.00        0.60
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.48)         (0.00)     (0.48)
4. Operating Expenditures            0.00             0.00         0.04         0.00        0.04
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.03)         (0.00)     (0.03)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             1.30             0.92         2.28         0.00        4.50
                                    (1.09)           (0.58)      (2.13)         (0.00)     (3.80)




                                                  - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.65              0.00             0.00              0.65
                                           (0.00)             (0.51)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.51)
   2. Goods                                 0.94               0.00              2.20             0.00              3.14
                                           (0.86)             (0.00)            (2.16)            (0.00)           (3.02)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.37             0.00              0.37
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.31)            (0.00)           (0.31)
   4. Operating Expenditures                0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.02)            (0.00)           (0.02)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.94               0.65              2.60             0.00              4.19
                                           (0.86)             (0.51)            (2.49)            (0.00)           (3.86)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel         1.50         0.00                     1.91         0.00                  127.3     0.0
fuel
2. Security Enhancement
at ports and airports
   a. Physical                  0.54         0.28                     0.48         0.21                  88.9      75.0
Improvement of
Infrastructure
   b. Security Equipment        1.19         0.21                     1.07         0.19                  89.9      90.5
   c.1. Institutional           0.16         0.04                     0.05         0.01                  31.3      25.0
Capacity Building
(training)
   c.2. Institutional           0.09         0.02                     0.09         0.02                  100.0    100.0
Capacity Building (TA)
3. Project Management           0.19         0.05                     0.12         0.02                  63.2      40.0




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible to calculate economic rates of return for this type of project




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/27/2001                7    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);
                                             LEAD ECONOMIST( 1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); SECURITY SPECIALIST
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/17/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL
                                             (1); LEAD ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              10/15/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             INTERN (1); ENGINEER (1)
              02/15/2003                3    TTL, LEAD URBAN SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                             PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
              05/20/2003                3    LEAD SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, ENGINEER (1)
              09/28/2003                2    TTL (1); PROJECT ENGINEER        S               S
                                             (1)
              03/01/2004                2    TTL (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)      S               S
              9/15/2004                 3    TTL (1); OPERATION               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              09/30/2004                2    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1)          S               S
              11/02/2004                3    OPERATIONS SPECIALIST            S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC
                                             (1)
              01/29/2005                3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
              05/05/2005                2    AIRPORT SECURITY                 S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT



                                              - 24 -

                                            SPECIALIST
               07/13/2005              2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);           S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
               08/29/2005              3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS               S    S
                                            OFFICER (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)
               11/15/2005              3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);           S    S
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            SPEC. (1)
               2/13/2006               1    ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC (1)            S    S


 ICR
               02/22/2006             2     OPERATIONS SPEC. (1);             S    S
                                            CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               20                           55
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    13                           40
  Supervision                              27                           73
  ICR                                       3                            9
  Total                                    63                          176




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


-Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ Report No.P 7506-LAC
-Technical Annex - Report No. T 7506-LAC
-Consultant's final Assessment of Security Needs at Airports and Maritime Passenger Terminals
in OECS Countries in the Post September 11, 2001 Environment, February 15, 2002
-Document Credit Agreement No. 36110-GRD, April 19, 2002
-Document Loan Agreement No. 71000-GRD, April 19, 2002
-Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2005
-Mid Term Technical Review, February 25, 2004
-Final Technical Review, May 24, 2005
-Project Files




                                             - 28 -

- 29 -

