Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3611-GRD
Development Credit Agreement
(
Emergency Recovery Project
)
between
GRENADA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 19, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3611-GRD
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 2002, between GRENADA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to provide additional assistance for 
the financing of the Project in an aggregate principal amount equal to one million one hundred 
and forty thousand Dollars ($1,140,000) (the Loan); and
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are 
made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and are hereby incorporated to this Agreement, provided 
that the exceptions listed under Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall apply.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
Page  3
to two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for expenditures made (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15 commencing April 15, 2012 and ending October 15, 2036.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on October 15, 2021 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever
:
Page  4
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as determined 
by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility 
to access the Association’s resources; and
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, Articles III and 
IV of, and Schedules 1, 2 and 4 to, the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated to this 
Agreement, and shall remain in full force and effect irrespective of the termination of the Loan 
Page  5
Agreement, with the following modifications in said Articles and Schedules (unless the context 
otherwise requires):
(a)
the term "Bank" shall be read as "Association";
(b)
the term "Loan" and "Loan Account" shall be read as "Credit" and "Credit 
Account" other than in Paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
(c)
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Association: 
(a)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank with respect to any 
Project-related matter under the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or given in the 
name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and
(b)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank or to the 
Association with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement, including the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
referred to therein, or of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to have been 
furnished to both the Bank and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of the Loan 
Agreement shall occur.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any of the  events specified in Section 5.02 of the Loan 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
Page  6
other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date July 18, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance, Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance, Planning and Development
Financial Complex
The Carenage, St. George
Grenada 
Fax:   1 473 440 4115
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
GRENADA
Page  7
By /s/ Denis Antoine 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
