Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 10812-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
MARCH 18, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without i' orld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(October 1993)
US$1.00   =  NRs. 49.00
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ANM         -     Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
A&E         -    Architectural and Engineering
BPEP        -     Basic and Primary Education Project
CEM         -     Country Economic Memoranda
CIF         -     Cost, Insurance, and Freight
CIR         -     Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
EPI         -     Expanded Program for Immunization
EP          -     Eighth Five-Year Plan
FINNIDA     -     Finnish International Development Agency
FP          -     Family Planning
FP/MCH      -     Family Planning and Maternal and Child Health
FY          -     Fiscal Year
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
GTZ         -     Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German)
HMG         -     His Majesty's Government
HP          -     Health Post
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
IEC         -     Information, Education and Communication
IMR         -     Infant Mortality Rate
IUD         -     Intra-Uterine Device
KfW         -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German)
LCB         -     Locai Competitive Bidding
MCH         -     Maternal and Child Health
MCHW        -    Maternal and Child Health Worker
MIS         -    Management Information System
MOF         -    Ministry of Finance
MOH         -    Ministry of Health
NCP         -     National Committee for Population
NGO         -     Non-Governmental Organization
NPC         -     National Planning Commission
O&M         -     Operations and Maintenance
ODA         -     Overseas Development Administration (British)
PBHW        -     Panchayat Based Health Worker
PFHP        -     Population and Family Health Project
PHC         -     Primary Health Center
PHRD        -     Policy and Human Resource Development
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
SBD         -     Standard Bidding Document
SHP         -     Sub-Health Post
TFR         -     Total Fertility Rate
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA       -     United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF      -    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       -     United States Agency for International Development
VDC         -     Village Development Committee
VHW         -    Village Health Worker
WHO         -     World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR: July 16-July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
PROPOSED POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Cot tents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary        ................................    iii
I.    SECTOR CONTEXT ................1...... .....                          1
A.    The Challenge of Population and Developme;       ...            1
B.    HMG'S Family Planning and Maternal and Child Health
Program.                                                      3
C. Pending Sector Issues.                                             6
D.    IDA's Country and Sector Assistance Strategy and Rationale
for IDA's Involvement in the Project.                         9
E. Lessons Learned.                                                   9
II. THE PROJECT .11
A.  Genesis and Objectives .11
B.  Project Design and Components .12
C.  Project Costs and Financing .18
D.  Procurement Arrangements .21
E. Disbursement .23
F.    Status of Preparation ..... . ...........................   24
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION .25
A.    Project Organization and Management .25
B. Implementation Plan .25
C.  Monitoring and Supervision .26
D. Accounts and Auditing .26
IV.   PROGRAMS OF SPECIAL EMPHASIS .................................       27
The report has been endorsed by Mrs. A. Hamilton, Director (SAlDR) and Mr. M.
Karcher, Chief (SAlPH). Peer Reviewers were Messrs. 0. Pannenborg, Chief
(AF1PH); S. Sudhakar, Senior Population Specialist (SA1PH); and C. Walker,
Senior Population, Health and Nutrition Specie-st (SA3PH). This report is
based on the findings of an IDA mission to Nepal in September-October 1993.
Mission members included: Messrs./Mmes. B. Duza, Task Manager (SAlPH); M. Mac
Donald, Senior Population Specialist (ASTHR); I. Appasamy, Operations
Assistant (SA1PH); A. Bhulya (Demographer-Operations Researcher), J. Brandt
(Logistics Specialist), T. Coyle (Architect), W. Robinson (Demographer-Health
Economist), and J. St. Germain (Architect), Consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Woa Id Bank authorization.  l



- ii -
V.   BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ...... ................ ....................  27
A     Benefits ..............................................    27
B.   Risks ......................... ...............    28
C. Sustainability .29
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .29
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 2.1 Project Cost Summary .19
Table 2.2  Financing Plan by Component ................ ....    20
Table 2.3 Procurement Methods .21
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.   H_ALTH DATA; MINISTRY STRUCTURE; PROGRAM COSTS
1.1   Population and Health Facilities in Nepal ............    31
1.2   Pcpulation Projection and Related P-'rameters
for Nepal ........................................ ....    32
1.3   Contraceptive Method Mix for Nepal ....................    33
1.4   Structure of Population and Health Service Delivery
in Nepal ......... 34
1.5   HMG's FP/MCH Program Components by Financiers .........    40
1.6   HMG's FP/MCH Program Components by Year ...............    41
ANNEX 2.    PROJECT COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
2.1   Population and Family Health Project - Expenditures
by Components                  ..                        42
2.2   Population and Family Health Project - Components
by Year ...............................................    44
2.3   IDA Disbursement Schedule             ..                  45
ANNEX 3.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
3.1   Management Structure for Population and Family
Health Project .........................    46
3.2   Project implementation Schedule by Components .........    47
3.3   Implementation Schedule - Civil Works .................    48
3.4   Yearly Critical Dates for Civil Works Implementation..    49
3.5   List of Sites for First and Second Year
Construction Program of Health Facilities .............    50
3.6   List of Proposed Sites for Primary Health Centers .....    51
3.7   Implementation Sc:hedule - Logistics ...................    53
3.8   Implementation Schedule - MIS .........................    54
3.9   Institutional Development Technical Assistance ........    61
3.10 Construction Monitoring Plan .62
3.11   Implementation Plan - Field Operations Support .64
3.12  Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities .65
ANNEX 4.    LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE .68
MAP:         IBRD 25400 - Nepal Population and Family Health Project   70



- iii -
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:    The Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:      SDR 19.4 million (US$26.7 million)
Terms:       Standard with 40 years maturity
Proiect
DescriDtion: The six-year (FY1995 t- FY2000) Project has been designed within
the framework of the Government's comprehensive Family Planning
and Maternal and Child Health (FP/MCH) Program. and would
supplement funds from domestic and foreign sources, ensuring
resource availability and operation of the total Program. It
would support the improvement of the quantity and quality of care
in FP/MCH service delivery and finance activities designed to:
(a) strengthen the effectiveness, access, and utilization of the
outreach and clinical programs; (b) refurbish the health
facilities and logistics infrastructure; (cl provide operational
and management support; (d) develop a functioning Management
Information System; (e) provide maintenance support; and (f)
enhance institutional development and the absorptive capacity of
the sector.
Benefits and
Risks:       Benefits would include lower rates of births, and infant and
maternal mortality and morbidity through cost-effective ielivery
of the FP/MCH Program. The slower population growth and better
family health that would result from these efforts would be a
vital pre-condition for the poverty reducing and other
development and environment goals of Nepal. The principal risk
would be the inability of the Government to accomplish the
effective integration of FP/MCH activities with Primary Health
Care delivery and the ongoing decentralization of program
execution. Other risks would include the inability to ensure
appropriate domestic resources and to maintain a critical mass of
staff of service providers and managers, and HMG-donor-NGO
coordination in the sector, along with their long-range
commitment to the sector. These risks are being addressed as
part of on-going institutional reforms in the sector and through
enhanced management, monitoring and supervision of the Project.



v
Poverty Categorv: Not Applicable
Eroject Costs:
Local          Foreign         Total
-----------(US$ Million)----------
Outreach Service Delivery               26.8            5.3           32.1
FP/MCH Clinical Units                    0.9            0.9            1.8
Logistics & Supplies                     0.9            0.4            1.3
Institutional Development                2.5            1.3            3.8
Total Project Cost                      31.1            7.9           39.0
Financinq Plan'
(Estimated)
Financier:              Local         Foreian         Total
----------US$ million--------------
Government                12.3               -            12.3
IDA                       18.8              7.9           26.7
Total          31.1              7.9           39.0
Estimated IDA risbursements:
FY            942     95       96      97        98         99         2000
----------------------- US$ million ----------------------------
Annu.al       0.2      3.1     4.9      6.3        5.6       4.3         2.3
Cumulative   0.2       3.3     8.2    14.5       20.1       24.4        26.7
Economic Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
Map: IBRD 25400
lIncludes duties and taxes, estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent.
2Retroactive financing.



NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Variables                             Year             Data
Total Area (Thousand kM2)                    1991             141
Total Population (Millions)                  Mid-1991          19.4
Density (Per kM2)                            Mid-1991         138
Population Growth Rate (Percent)             Mid-1991           2.5
Crude Birth Rate (Per thourand)              1991              38
Crude Death Rate (Per thousand)              1991              13
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)
Male              1991              54
Female            1991              53
Total Fertility Rate (TFR/Per Woman)         1991               5.5
Infant Mortality Rate (Per thousand
live births)                                1991            101
Under 5 Mortality Rate (Per thousand
live births)                                1991            197
Maternal Mortality Rate (Per thousand
live births)                                1988              8.3
Urban Population (Percent of total
population)                                 1991              10
Adult Literacy Rate (Percent)
Total                  1990             26
Females                1990             13
Age Structure (Percent)
0-14                  1991              43.4
15-64                   1991             53.7
65 and over             1991              2.9
Population Per Physician                     1993         17,000
GNP per capita (US$)                         1991             180
Sources: World Development Report, The World Bank; 1993; Eduard Bos et al.,
World Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition, The World Bank; and
MOH/HMG, National Health Policy, 1991 (for under 5 mortality rate).



I. SECTOR CONTEXT
A. The Challenge of Population and Development
1.1       Understanding the implications of rapid population growth is
pivotal for a realistic perspective of Nepal's development prospects. The
Bank's 1991 Poverty and incomes Study for Nepal identifies this as the most
fundamental factor contributing to poverty, eroding the limited gains made in
GDP and food production. Had the annual population growth rate been contained
to 1.5 percent, rather than the 2.7 percent registered during the past twenty
years, the real per capita GDP would have risen 45 percent instead of 14
percent during the oeriod. As the study documents: (a) there is no prospect
of significantly increasing average incomes if the population continues to
double every 25 years, as in the recent past; (b) curbing population growth is
the central, single most important element of any poverty alleviation strategy
for Nepal; and (c) in the absence of an effective program to slow population
growth, all other poverty alleviation measures would prove ineffective. In
that case, per capita annual incomes might stagnate at around US$180,
resulting in the addition of 15 million absolute poor over the next two
decades.3 This would not be a desirable scenario for a country whuse 1991
per capita G.4P ranked 121st among 127 countries cited in the 1993 World
Development Report. Such daunting conclusions are strongly endorsed in the
Bank's Country Economic Memoranda (CEM) and reiterated by various experts in
the field. Senior Nepali officials have often characterizec' the magnitude of
the count2y's population problem as a "Himalayan challenge."
1.2       Illiteracy in the population 15 vears ai:d over is 74 percent, the
figure for females being a staggering 87 percent. Also germane to the context
of severe poverty, malnutrition, overcrowding and inadequate health services
is that Nepal's health status is amongst the poorest in the world, even within
the relatively impoverished South Asian region. Access to health care remains
extremely limited, with a doctor-population ratio of nearly 1:17,000 and one
hospital bed per more than 4,000 persons. The situation is far worse in
outlying rural areas and mountains (Annex 1.1). Nepalfs infant mortality rate
of 101, child mortality rate of 197, and maternal mortality rate of 8.3 per
thousand live births are among the highest in the world; life expectancy of 53
years at birth is among the lowest; and nutrition indicators remain at a
critical range -- the percentage of households consuming less than the
recommended levels of food being 47% in tle rural hills, followed by 40% in
urban areas, 31% in the mountains, and 23% in the rural terai, which is a food
surplus producing region.4
3 See: Nepal: Poverty and Incomes, The World Bank, 1991, pp. xi, xiii, 23.
4 Social Indicators of Development, 1993, The World Bank, p. 237; World Development Report, The World Bank,
1993, pp. 238, 292; National Health Policy, MOH/HMG, Nepal, 1991, p.3; Nepal: Poverty and Incomes, The
Worlt Bank, 1991, p.74.



-2-
1.3       The number of the absolute poor represented nearly 40 percent of
Nepal's estimated population of 19.4 million as of mid-1991, with an annual
rate of population growth of 2.5 percent.5 At this rate, the population
would double again in the next 27 years.  Although a subs.'antial part of this
increase is already determined by the great momentum for growth represented by
the large number of women in reproductive ages -- 4.5 m_llion in 1991,
compared to 2.7 million in 1970 -- as a result of past high fertility, a
faster reduction in fertility in the near future would make a significant
difference in the total population size twenty years from now. By the year
2015, this could imply a total size of 33 million (low growth scenario),
rather than 37 million (high growth scenario), as estimated in the Social
Sectoi Strategy Review.6 Under more optimistic assumptions of somewhat
faster fertility decline, the Bank's 1992-93 Projections estimate possible
doubling of the current size at a later date, about 20307 (Annex 1.2 for
projected population growth and related parameters for Nepal). Achieving a
slower pace of population growth would call for undertaking the required
investment and effort now.
1.4       In the process of continued high fertility and gradually declining
-- albeit still high -- mortality, per capita agricultural land has dwindled
from 0.6 to 0.24 hectare between 1954 and 1990. The current average farm size
in the hills is below one hectare, deemed insufficient to support the average
farm household of 6 persons. The consequent pressure has pushed cultivation
up the hills and fragile slopelands, associated with declining marginal
productivity, deforestation, and other forms of ecological disruptions. The
temporary safety margin offered by agricultural expansion in  he terai which
accommodated an estimated 1.2 million migrants frc.n the hills in the l9(,s and
19-0s is also approaching exhaustion. At the same time, in view of the young
age structure of the population, np- entrants would be joining the country's
labor force at an annual rate of about 0.4 million by the beginning of the
century, twice the rate experienced during the 1980s. Given the limited
arable land base, the largest proportion of these new workers would have '  be
absorbed in off-farm employment. In contrast, the manufacturing sector is
currently adding only some 9,000 jobs per year.8
1.5       This is the overall sector context against which one has to assess
the past and prospective FP/MCH (Family Planning and Maternal and Child
Health) program of the country. Despite over two decades of official family
planning programs, the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) remains around 20-
23% of the currently married women, and the total fertility rate (TFR: number
of children per woman expected during the entire reproductive period) is
estimated to be nearly 6. The current CPR is much lower than the rate
required for a significant impact on population growth -- a CPR of 40 percent
5 World Development Report, The World Bank, 1993, p.238; Eduard Bos et al., World Population 2roiections,
1992-93 Edition, The World Bank, 1992.
6 Nepal; Social Sector Stratepy Review, Vol. II, The World Bank, 1989 (Report No. '498-NEP).
7 Eduard Bos et al., World Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition, The World Bank, 1992, pp. 354-355.
8 See: Nepal: Poverty and Incomes, The World Bank, 1991, pp. xi, 24-25, 65.



3-
by the end of the century to bring down the population growth rate to two
percent per year, and a CPR of 60 percent needed for the population to begin
to acabilize.9 These latcer figures are considerably higher than the
Government's CPR goal of 33 percert set for the year 2000,10 which itself
would be ambitious in terms of current programmatic efforts but should be
achievable if the goal is backed by appropriate levels of institutional,
financial, and personnel efforts.  The same would be true for the MCH goals,
discussed later.
B.  HMG's Family Planning and Maternal and Child Health (FP/MCH) Program
1.6       Population Policy in the 1980s.  Recognizing the critical
importance of populatioli issues, in the early 1980s His Majesty's Government
(HMG) developed a National Population Policy, which was adopted in !983.11
It was in principle a sound population strategy that included: (a) meeting
unmet demand for tamily planning; (b) integrating "population" into relevant
development programs; (c) adopting programs to intrease female education; and
(d) mobilizing community participation. A National Commission on Population
was established, under the Prime Minister, to take charge of executing the
population policy. Implementation of the policy, however, was piecemeal and
ineffective; inter-sectoral coordination weak; and acces- to family planning
service delivery limited and irregular. During the late 1980s, population
efforts lost momentum and the National Commission on Population was merged
with the National Planning Commission (NPC) in 1990.
1.7       Population Policy for the 1990s.  The present Government has
demonstrated encouraging signs of awareness of the population and development
nexus, and in 1991, announced a new population policy, in conjunction with a
new health policy. These have been incorporated in the country's Eighth Five-
Year Plan (EP: 1992-97) .12 While HMG's awareness of population issues is
evidenced in these efforts, as well as in documents and speeches, strong
political priority accorded to population in Asian countries with the
successful population programs -- such as Indonesia, Thailand, and lately
Bangladesh -- is still to emerge in Nepal. Nonetheless, it is important to
note that in late 1991, HMG established a National Committee for Population
(NCP), chaired by the Prime Minister and comprised of Ministers from the
concerned line and core Ministries. The structure of the National Population
Program is shown in Annex 1.4. Improvement in the socio-economic environment
9     Nepal - Fertility and Family Planning Survey Report, 1991. MOH/HMG, 1991, p. 108; Nepal -
Fiscal Restructuring and Public Resource Management in the Nineties (Draft), The World Bank,
February 1994, Para. 5.125.
10    Population Poi.cw and Program, Briefing Paper for the International Donor Meeting on Population,
Kathmandu, March 1992, NPC/HMG.
11    National Pooulatic,  ,trateqy, National Commission on Population, HMG, 1983.
12    See: National Pealth Policy, MOH/HMG, 1991; Population Policy and Program, Briefing Paper for
the Internatioaal Donor Meeting on Population, Kathmandu, March 1992, NPC/HMG; Eighth Five-
Year Plan, NPC/HMG, 1992.



-4-
that would be conducive to fercility reduction is being supported in NepaL
through the ongoing IDA-financEd Basic and Primary 3ducation Project (BPEP),
with thrust on increasing fetaale enrollment and female participation in the
teaching force; and the Higher E;lucation Project, recently approvec, by the
Board.
1.8       FP/MCH Programs in Nepal whicn started in the early 1970s have
since continued with support from extsrnal donors -- especially USAID, UNFPA,
UNICEF and some international NGOs. Over time, these were developed into a
vertical program to deliver family planning, and limited MCH services.
Despite meager resources and other constraints, some progress has been
achieved during the past twenty years. The CPR is estimaced to have risen
fro.n 2 percent in 1976 to 7 percent in 1981, and above 20 percent in 199S, as
noted before. While the overall achievement in MCH has been rather trivial,
steady progress has been recorded for the Expanded Program f)r Irmmnunization
(EPI), with 21 to 80 percent coverage for different antigens.13
1.9       HMG's Cuirent Sectoral Strategy, 14 which is largely supported by
the donor community, includes plans to: (a) upgrade the health standard of
the population through an integrated approach to Prim,'ry Health Care; (b)
pro-ide FP/MCH services in a more effective manner; (c, promote equity of
access of the population, especially the rural population, to the services;
and (d) decentralize program execution. These are to be achieved by
establishing 3,200 Sub-Health Posts (SHP), one in each Village Development
Committee (VDC) and deploying a new cadre of 3,200 MCH Workers at the SHP
level; strer;gthening of the existing 816 Health Posts (HPs); and creating 205
Primary Health Centers (PHCs), each under a doctor and with a three-bed
facility. The structure of FP/MCH service delivery, announced in September
1993, is shown in Annex 1.4.
1.10      Specific goals for the FP/MCH Program, envisaged by HMGl5 for the
year 2000, comprise the following:
(a) Increasing the CPR from the present level of 23% to 33% and
reducing the TFR from 5.8 to 4;
(b) Reducing infant, child, and maternal mortality rates respectively
from 107 to 50, 197 to 70, and 8.5 to 4 per thousand; and
(c) Raising life expectancy at birth from 53 to 65 years.
13    See: references  ted in Footnote 11.
14    See: references cited in Footnote 11.
15    See: references cited in Footnote 11.



-5-
As a result of the inadequate statistical data base for the country, estimates
of uemographic and health parameters from different sources vary widely, but
the above figures of current fertility and mortality levels are considered
plausible. However, the demographic and health objectives for year 2000 must
be assessed in a realistic manner. On the fertility side, serious
programmatic c'forts and resource commitments, as envisaged in the
Government's Population and Family Health program, can make the CPR goal
achievable and bring the more demanding TFR goal within reach. On the other
hand, there is a need for caution with regard to the mortality and life
expectancy goals set by the Government for the year 2000. These are unlikely
to be achieved by the end of the dec.ade, ev-n under the most optimiestic
scenarios. There is no precedent in similar developing country settings for
such dramati.c improvements over such a short period. The general WHO
guidelines indicate that an annual gain in life expectancy in a developing
country of about half-a-year is a realistic objecti',e. The proposed Project
supports an outreach and clinical program that would widen the access to MCH
care throughout the country and set in motion an improvement in mortality
conditions over a longer time-frame.
1.11      Major components in HMG's current and prospective FP/MCH Procram
consist of outreach service delivery, clinical services, logistics and
supplies, and institutional development. Under the recently reorganized
organogram (Annex 1.4), these activities would be planned and coordinated
through the Planning Division of the MOH and axecuted through the Family
Health Division of the new Department of Health Services of the MOH. FP/MCH
would be delivered within an integrated package of Primary Health Care.
Implementation would be decentralized -- through the Health Directorates in
the five development regions and the 75 District Health Orfices. The work
will be carried out at the field level mostly through a network of 816
existing Health Posts (HPs) and 3,200 new Sub-Health Posts (SHPs); and through
outreach services delivered at the community and household levels. Supportive
mechanisms for outreach and clinical services would include a Management
Information System (MIS); Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
component; National and Regional Training Centers; and infrastructure for
various health facilities. These activities would be supported partially from
domestic sourcea and largely from donor funding.
1.12      FP/MCH Program Support.  The incremental resource requirement for
MOH has been stipulated as Rs.5.5 billion (US$127 million) in the Eighth Five-
Year Plan (1992-97). This represents 4.8 percent of the total EP budget
outlay. Including direct funding of certain components by some donors, the
figure is estimated to be Rs.7.5 billion (US$174 million) in HMG's Financing
Plan. This level of resource allocation should be adequate to cover the
Government's total FP/MCH Program noted in Para 1.11 above at an estimated
cost of Rs.6.2 billion (US$127 million)16 for six years (FY95-2000),
corresponding to the proposed Project period. As indicated in Annex 1.5, the
existing donors -- primarily UNFPA and USAID -- will continue to provide
16    Based on rate of exchange of US$1 - Nrs. 49.00; EFYP estimate based on rate of exchange of US$1
- NRs. 42.75.



-6-
funding for contraceptives, with supplementary support from FINNIDA, a new
donor in the sector. KfW, another new donor, will be supplying essential
drugs, along with UNICEV, which will also support EPI vaccines. Most of the
resources for training, IEC, and MIS will be coming from UNFPA and USAID,
while HMG will cover part of the recurrent expenditures.  In addition to the
above-mentioned external donors who have firmed up their commitment to the
'rogram, ODA is in the final stage of its decision to participate in it.
However, lack of adequate funding in some critical areas -- including MCH
Workers' salary, logistics, infrastructure, and operational and institutional
support -- makes the overall FP/MCH service delivery currently ineffective and
investments in other program areas wasteful.
C. Pending Sector Issues
1.13        A number of key issues have long plagued the implementation of
FP/MCH e3rvice delivery in the country, but their resolution has proved to be
extremely slow as a res;.X of various systemic problems as well as ad hoc and
segmented approaches taken to address them. Some of the outstanding problems
are:
(a) Priority and Accountability. Lack of perceived priority and
accountability for FP/MCH services has been endemic at the field
level, both on the part of the workers and their supervisors. This
is partially related tc the next problem, but perhaps also to the
lack of adequate Government attention to the program.
(b)  Inadeouate Integration.  Inadequate and hasty integration of the
previously vertical and "crash" programs in various fields
including FP/MCH. failed to produce the desired results in terms of
more cost-effective service delivery. Instead, the existing
services were largely disrupted. Many workers, including the only
female outreach workers (Panchayat-Based Health Workers/PBHWs) were
laid off; many others from previously vertical programs were poorly
re-trained and re-oriented for integrated service delivery. Only
the Expanded Program for Immunization (EPI) did reasonably well in
the process, partly at the expense of other components. The
Village Health Workers (VHWs) gave priority to immunizations for
which supplies were mostly available from external donor support,
in preference to family planning and other health measures which
were less well understood, had limited resources, and were most
difficult to deliver. Continuation of verticality in donor support
for particular components slowed down the process of integration.
The creation of a new Department of Health Services (DHS),
announced in July 1993 -- see Organogram in Annex 1.4 -- would
address the problems of incomplete integration and decentralization
of primary health care delivery, and HMG and donors seem to be more
aware now of the need to provide specialized services through a
coherent integrated package.



-7-
(c) Resource Allocation and Utilization. The lack of priority to the
sector was reflected in inadequate resource allocation to FP/MCH,
and even reduction in the budget in FY93. Limited implementation
of the program objectives was an inevitable consequence of resource
constraints. In addition, the inadequate allocations themselves
were often not fully spent, especially for the development budget.
An average of 36 percent of the health sector development budget
was not spent during FY90-FY92, compared to 30 percent for the
entire development budget. FP/MCH services that are largely tied
up with external grant funding have also suffered more in the
process. This underutilization of resources has raised skepticism
about the absorptive capacity of MOH and its FP/MCH operations.
Appropriate measures, thus, need to be taken toward institutional
development and reforms in financial management. Mechanisms for
fund release would require streamlining. The Bank s macro-economic
analysis attributes a large part of the problem to the lack of HMG
counterpart funding in support of the development budget. It has
been pointed out that most of the sector development budget is
recurrent in nature and requires sustained financing under the
regular budget. However, more than half of these expenditures are
parcelled into projects under the development budget for financing
by donors, which also results in unreliable service delivery as
financing is linked to the project cycle.17
(d) Poor HMG-Donor Coordination. As noted earlier, considerable
segmentation and loss of focus resulted from the earlier "project
approach" to FP/MCH. This has been exacerbated by a lack of
effective mechanisms for inter-ministerial, as well as HMG-Donor,
coordination in support of a comprehensive FP/MCH program.
(e) Staff Support. The program has suffered as a result of inadequate
outreach and clinical service providers, as well as managerial
staff. The inability of the program to retain female Auxiliary
Nurse-Midwives (ANMs) in the remote Health Posts (HPs), often due
to lack of secure accommodation, and failure to deploy local female
MCH Workers largely due to fund constraints have resulted in
limited service delivery. High levels of doctor and male paramedic
vacancies have also been a chronic problem in the outlying areas.
The Government has begun to pay attention to these problems, but
staff reductions across the board as a result of ongoing
administrative reforms may leave the recently reorganized FP/MCH
section under the Family Health Division without a critical mass of
staff for outreach and clinical services, and program management.
(f)  Inadeauate Travel and Daily Allowances.  Service delivery has
proven difficult owing to the inadequacy of travel (T/A) and daily
(D/A) allowances for field staff and their supervisors.
17    Nepal - Fiscal Restructuring and Public Resource Management in the Nineties (Draft), The World
Bank, February 1994, para. S.117.



-8-
(g) Contraceptive Method Mix and Unmet Needs. Partly because of the
difficulty of terrain and limited institutional facilities, it was
initially found convenient to arrange seasonal sterilization camps
across the country. In the process, temporary and spacing methods
were neglected, and the national family planning program became
synor'mous with a sterilization program. Hasty measures d limit
sterilization camps since the mid-1980s and to provide the services
in static facilities in a selected number of "institutionalized"
districts resulted in heavy decline in sterilization performarce --
from a peak of 68,000 in FY84 to about 20,000 in recent years.
Other methods, which could compensate for the loss of sterilization
clients, have yet to be effectively disseminated as household
visitation by field workers is infrequent, and measures for
promoting these alternative methods are still weak. In 1986, about
86 percent of all contraceptive use was by way of sterilization; by
1991, 78.4 percent of CPR was still accounted for by sterilization
(see Annex 1.3 for Contraceptive Method Mix). Overall, the quality
of care in sterilization and other clinical methods, especially
when administered in temporary camps, has also been questioned. At
the same time, the "unmet need" for family planning in the 1991
survey was identified as 28 percent among married women and 55
percent of these women wanted family planning in order to "limit
family size. "1'8 Besides creating new demand through targeted IEC,
intensive program efforts can tap these potential clients and
increasingly reach younger women with fewer children through a
rationalized method mix of both permanent and temporary methods.
It is worth noting that the sensitive topic of abortion has not
been an issue in Nepal. It is not legal in the country and was
never a part of the FP/MCH program. Nonetheless, although not well
documented, the incidence of abortions is believed to be
significant in the country. Many of these abortions are supposedly
done under unhygienic and life-threatening circumstances,
aggravating maternal mortality and morbidity among the women.
Better access to family planning services should reduce abortions
and the accompanying misery of the women and their families.
(h) MIS and Locqistics Support. In the absence of a functioning MIS for
FP/MCH, bot-a service delivery and its monitoring at the field level
bave proved intractable. Similarly, the logistics system needs
major improvements, without which contraceptives and other
commodities, even when available, would continue to be erratically
supplied.
(i) Infrastructure Development and Maintenance. Inadequate
infrastructure facilities, their suboptitmal utilization, and poor
maintenance of the buildings and equipment have impacted adversely
upon the FP/MCH Program. Resolution of these problems would
18    NeDal - Fertility, Family Planning, and Health Survey. 1991, MOH/HMG, 1993, pp. 82-85; 107-117.



-9-
require appropriate financial resources as well as skilled
personnel to ensure year-round provision of quality services at
both outreach and static facilities.
D. IDA's Country and Sector Assistance Strategy and
Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Proiect
1.14      A major objective of IDA's country assistance strategy for Nepal
calls for addressing the interlinked challenges of low economic growth,
endemic poverty, high population growth, and environmental degradation. Their
solution is viewed in teims of more rapid and broad-based economic growth and
human resources development, reinforced by a strong population program. The
urgency of tackling the problem of rapid population growth is a theme that
cuts across the four main areas of focus of this strategy: (a) poverty
alleviation through productivity gains in agriculture, expansion in small-
scale industries and services; (b) improvement of absorption capacity through
strengthening the finances and management of sectoral institutions; (c) human
resource development; and (d) the development of hydropower resources il
Nepal's macro-economic management and institutional capacity improve.
Therefore, IDA's country assistance strategy identifies population and health
as a top priority sector, and the Government has acknowledged the importance
of protecting investment funds in this core area.
1.15      This priority emphasis is reflected in several ways.  First,
through its macroeconomic dialogue with HMG, IDA is in a position to help HMG
with the prioritization of public expenditures and with the allocation of
scarce domestic and external resources to high return investment programs. In
the context of the on-going public expenditure review, HMG's population and
family health program was identified as a core program for budget allocation
purposes, thus ensuring that adequate funds will be available for the program
in a timely manner. Secondly, by taking an overall view of the needs of the
sector rather than a more narrow project approach, IDA was able to assist the
Government in formulating a comprehensive and sustainable population and
family health program, which promotes a more rational contraceptive method mix
-- along with a realistic financing plan -- which now serves as a framework
for external donor support. Thirdly, by helping the Government to organize a
donors' conference on population in March 1992, IDA was instrumental in
mobilizing additional Oonor resources for the sector, especially as some
donors were waiting for IDA to signal its entry into the sector before
committing themselves. Finally, by acting as a lender of last resort, IDA is
able to fund critical inputs, such as O&M and TA/DA, without which services do
not reach the intended beneficiaries. This will assist in expanding the
absorptive capacity of the sector and increasing its effectiveness.
E. Lessons Learned
1.16      IDA experience in the social sector in Nepal so far has been in
several projects in education. Lessons learned underscore the need to
approach the issues at the systemic level; the value of cost-effective and
affordable interventions; and institutional reforms and building up



-10-
institutional capacities for sustainability of the programs. While IDA has no
prior experience in Nepal in the population and health sector, these lessons
from the education projects proved most relevant in developing the proposed
Project with HMG and in dealing with the sectoral issues identified during the
process of Project preparation. IDA experience in the sector in parallel
situations elsewhere in the reQion also provided positive lessons in desi7ning
the proposed Project.
1.17      Of particular relevance is the leading role that IDA has played in
its long-standing commitment to the sector in Bangladesh, a country that is
equally constrained by poverty and its associated limitations. The Bangladesh
Population and Health Project is now widely acclaimed as a major success
story, and IDA is credited with its sustained support for a comprehensive and
well-coordinated national program. The country's total fertility rate has
fallen from 7 births per woman in 1975 to 4.5 births per woman in 1990. The
corresponding change in the contraceptive prevalence rate auring the period is
reflected in the dramatic rise from 8 to about 40 percent. Relevant
evaluation and research findings' include the following:
(a) incontrovertible evidence that there is demand for family planning
in rural Bangladesh;
(b) the value of programmatic interventions to mitigate the costs of
family planning; and
(c) confirmation that implementation of appropriate service elements
can bring about substantial demographic effects.
Based on the research, three key policies were implemented. First, Family
Welfare Centers have been established in over 80 percent of the local
jurisdictions that have an average population of around 20,000. Second,
surgical sterilization services are available in every district and
subdistrict hospital at no cost to the patient. And third, over 23,000 female
outreach workers deliver family planning services to couples in their homes.
1.18      These observations are directly relevant for the design of the
proposed Project. Given the similarities in the contexts of the two
countries, it should be possible for Nepal to achieve a breakthrough in its
population programs, provided the right policiee are adequately implemented.
1.19      As noted earlier, implementing an effective population program is
an essential element of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy as it will
contribute to the Government's poverty alleviation and human resource
development efforts.
19    Winthrop P. Carty, et al., Success in a ChallenQing Environment: Fertility Decline in
Bangladesh, Population Reference Bureau, Inc., 1993; John Cleland et al., Bangladesh: The
Determinants of Reproductive Change, The World Bank, 1994.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Genesis and Obiectives
Project Genesis
2.1       The Project originated from a Government request for IDA assistance
for the FP/MCH Program following the discussions of IDA's 1989 Social Sector
Strategy Review for Nepal (Report No. 7498-NEP), which highlighted the
population-resource strains noted above. The Bank's macro-economic analyses
have since echoed the concern that unless a major program intervention were
launched, aiming at reducing population growth, the gains of other investments
in Nepal would ultimately be frittered away. IDA was initially involved in
assisting with the drafting of a population strategy for Nepal in 1983, which
was discussed at the Aid Group meeting that year, and subsequently adopted as
Government policy (see para. 1.6). However, an IDA-supported project did not
materialize at that time.
2.2       Against this backdrop, detailed preparations for the present
Project were undertaker, by HMG for over three years. A number of analytical
studies and other preparatory work were carried out with support from UNDP,
UNFPA, GTZ (Germany), Save the Children Fund (UK), and the Japanese Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund. While working closely with the
Government, IDA also had extensive consultations with the existing and
potential donors both at the headquarters and field levels.
Proiect Obiectives
2.3       The Project's main objective is to support the Government's efforts
to increase contraceptive prevalence and decrease the total fertility rate.
In addition, the Project would help to reduce maternal and child morbidity and
mortality, and to raise life expectancy. The Project would contribute to the
achievement of these goals through the financing of key components of HMG's
FP/MCH program that have inadequate funding and institutional support in order
to:
(a) increase the coverage, quality, and utilization of FP/MCH services
through outreach and clinical services, and ensured supplies of
contraceptive and drugs;
(b)  improve the functions of the grassroots health facilities through
recruitment and deployment of female MCH Workers and providing
field operations support; and
(c) enhance the Government's institutional capability, in particular
the managerial capability, to implement a comprehensive
Population/MCH Program effectively.



-12-
2.4       The focus of the Project would be on:  (a) enhancing the
utilization of existing personnel resources and health facilities; (b)
supporting a new cadre of female MCH Workers, a long-felt need for the
national program in a traditional setting; (c) refurbishing and expanding the
health infrastructure and logistics systems; and (d) strengthening MOH's
maintEnance and management capacities. With respect to family planning, the
goal would be to increase the CPR from 23% to 31% by expanding the coverage
from the current figure of about 1.01 million couples to an estimated 1.74
million couples annually by the end of the Project period. With respect to
family health goals, the Project envisages a substantial expansion of client
access to the improved and expanded network of clinical facilities at the
level of District Hospitals, Health Posts, and Sub-Health Posts (SHPs). In
particular, by the end of the Project period, the goal would be to hold about
50,000 outreach clinics each month, served by the 3,200 MCH workers and other
staff operating out of the Sub-Health Posts. The expanded services and
counselling would also help safe motherhood goals for a growing number of
women through better child spacing, minimizing vulnerable pregnancies too
early and too late in the reproductive life of a woman, as well as through
pre-natal care and more effective referral to the 25 new Primary Health
Centers (PHCs) and 35 MCH Units in the District Hospitals.
B. Proiect Design and Components
Evolution of the Project Design
2.5       Since this would be the first IDA-supported Project in the sector
for Nepal and since MOH/HMG does not have prior experience with IDA
requirements and procedures, considerable preparatory activities were
undertaken. Milestones in the evolution of the Project design included the
following:
(a)  Background Technical Papers.  Ten major reports were commissioned
in 1990 from national experts on various aspects of the FP/MCH
outreach and clinical service delivery in the public, NGO, and
private sectors.
(b) Reports of Seven Working Groups. These Working Groups were set up
in 1991 under a National Steering Committee, with inter-ministerial
and NGO representation. They embarked upon in-depth analytical
work, done in three phases -- Situation Analysis; Analysis of
Options for Interventions; and Resource and Management Implications
for Project Components. The reports examined management and
operational issues at various levels, and considered options and
resource requirements for different program interventions.
(c) Comprehensive FP/MCH Program. The foregoing reports and analyses
provided a basis for defining the parameters and broad resource
requirements for a comprehensive national FP/MCH Program. The



-13-
technical inputs and outcomes were reflected in HMG's Eighth Five-
Year Plan (1992-1997), and provided a framework for dialogue
between HMG, IDA, and the donor community-at-large.
(d)  International Donor Meeting.  These efforts were followed by the
convening of an international donor meeting on population held in
Kathmandu in March 1992. IDA collaborated with HMG and othpr
donors in the process leading up to the meeting and in the
subsequent follow-up. The documentation represented a further
basis for HMG-donor consultations on program objectives and
potential support.
(e) Detailed Financing Plan. The stage was now set for a detailed
financing plan for the sector. Its preparation was facilitated by
input from the ongoing Health Resource Allocation Study for Nepal,
a UNDP project executed by the Bank, as well as IDA's Public
Expenditure Review.  The Financing Plan, submitted to IDA by HMG in
August 1993 and shared with other donors, provides a comprehensive
profile of requirements for the sector within the expected resource
envelope of domestic and foreign funds for various components, and
identifies the f,inancing gaps for specified areas. A valuable
outcome emerging from the analysis of the Financing Plan was the
fruitful dialogue with the Government and formulation of
alternative scenarios and sequencing of expansion and
prioritization for various components of a feasible, affordable and
sustainable FP/MCH program, keeping in view the competing demands
on financial, personnel, and organizational resources available to
HMG.
(f)  Infrastructure Development Survey.  A country-wide infrastructure
survey of more than 800 health facilities was undertaken in 1993.
Completed in October 1993, the Report provides a detailed picture
of the physical status of each of these facilities, along with
their accessibility and utilization; it also formulates objective
criteria for essential repairs and renovation, as well as
replacement on appropriate sites.
(g) Locristics Inventory. A similar inventory of the logistics
infrastructure system was undertaken. Issues relating to the
distribution and storage of FP/MCH supplies in the country were
examined, and recommendations for rehabilitation of the system
formulated.
(h)  Operations Research.  Operations research in selected areas of
three districts was set up with a view to examining implementation
issues at the field level.
2.6       Against the background of the studies and reviews noted above, the
proposed six-year (FY95-2000) Population and Family Health Project has been
based on the Government's FP/MCH Program, and addressee the pending sector
issues outlined in para. 1.13. The IDA Credit would supplement funds from



-14-
domestic and foreign sources, ensuring resource availability for the total
Program. Duplication of efforts and funding for various components would be
avoided through coordination and continuing dialogue 'ich the Government and
the concerned donors, and where appropriate, through joint supervision
missions. The proposed three-tier management structure (Chapter III, para.
3.1) should also be a valuable mechanism for inter-ministerial, NGO, and donor
coordination. The Project would cost US$39 million, and cover about 31
percent of the estimated total of US$127 million for HMG's FP/MCH Program for
the Project period (Annex 1.5). The formulation assumes that the National
Program would continue to be supported by the domestic and concerned foreign
sources at least at the present level of support beyond the end of the EP.
2.7       The scope of the Project is fully consistent with the resource
envelope of Rs.5.5 billion for HMG's core FP/MCH and other MOH programs for
the Eighth Five-Year Plan, as endorsed in the Bank's CEM, and representing 4.8
percent of the total EP budget noted before, and compared to 4.3 percent of
the total Government expenditures in the 1980s, 3.3 percent in FY91-92, and
4.4 percent in FY93. It is also in line with the following sector priorities
and expenditure efficiency issues underscored by the CEM:20
(a) consolidating and utilizing the existing facilities and personnel,
and developing the new system of proposed health facilities only
gradually, in line with financial, staffing and managerial
potential;
(b)  ensuring the budget for recurrent excpenditures for basic O&M
activities, including maintenance, and funding of the female MCHWs;
(c) focussing infrastructure investments first on constructing the HPs
and clinical services at the outreach level, limiting PHC expansion
to the most densely populated sources of demand; and
(d) protecting the critical mass of staff for outreach and clinical
services as well as program management and supervision, along with
non-wage operational costs.
2.8       While meeting the existing financing gap, the Project would upgrade
the infrastructure and provide operational support and MCH Workers' salaries,
which are now grossly under-funded; and supplement various components where
funding is only partially available -- including MIS, distribution of
supplies, and operations and maintenance -- in conjunction with other donors.
Details of the specific components are outlined below.
w Nepal - Fiscal Restructuring and Public Resource Management in the Nineties (Draft), The World Bank,
February 1994, para. 5.130; Financing Plan for Population and Family Health Program, MOH/HMG, August
1993, Table 1.



-15-
2.9       Outreach Service Delivery (US$27.8 million).  A major barrier to
past program effectiveness has been inadequate outreach from health facilities
to clients at the household and community levels. The Project will strengthen
this vital area, with support to several key sub-components as detailed below:
(a) Female MCH Workers at the Sub-Health Post Level (US$7.3 million).
Introduction of this new female cadre to the FP/MCH Program has for
long been deemed by IDA and other donors as most critical in order
to reach women and children at the outreach level. The MCH Workers
would be recruited and posted locally, with three months' training
in clinical and outreach service delivery. Appropriate domestic
resources will be made available for the MCH Workers salaries
component, considered crucial to implement the Project fully and
effectively. This would require the continued HMG support for
about 1,300 MCH Workers already reciuited by the Government;
deployment of the remaining 1,900 MCH Workers--about 650 per year--
during the next three years of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (by July
1997); and their continued funding throughout the Project period
(July 1994 to July 2000). Thus, from July 1997, there will be one
of these wor':ers in each of the 3,200 Sub-Health Posts being set up
in the country. The primary goal is to take services nearer to the
people. They will also provide services at outreach clinics in the
local community.
(b)  Health Posts (US$9.8 million). As a key element in the existing
health service delivery network at the field level, the Credit will
fund the construction/replacement of 125 new Health Posts in areas
where they are currently located in rented facilities or
inappropriate locations; in addition, 100 Health Posts will be
renovated and repaired, thus covering about a quarter of the
country's 816 Health Posts. Construction of the new HPs will start
in the first year of the Project. The proposed sites for the units
to be built during the first two years of the Project are listed in
Annex 3.5. Staff quarters for the female Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives
(ANMs) will be provided in all these facilities, mitigating a major
constraint in retaining technical female staff in outlying rural
areas, which seriously limits access of female clients to the
existing facilities. These ANMs are parademics with three years'
training under the Institute of Medicine, and are nationally
recruited and posted across the country. Construction of HPs will
start in the first year of the Project.
(c)  Primary Health Centers (PHCs) (US$3.5 million). This is a new
component in HMG's recently announced Health Policy, with an
ultimate goal of establishing 205 such Centers in the country, each
under a doctor and with a three-bed facility. The EP calls for
setting up 100 PHCs during the Plan period. Establishment of these
units may pr--e tc be a worthwhile long-range goal for the future.
However, in view of the scarcity of doctors in the country and high
recurring costs involved, the Project supports a slow and realistic
phasing of their expansion. Thus, the Project will provide funding



-16-
for the establishment of five new Centers and upgrading of 20
existing Health Posts -- in grod catchment areas, with better
potential for utilization of services. Construction will commence
in the first year of the Project (for listing of sites, see Annexes
3.5 and 3.6).
(d)  Field Operations Support (US$7.2 million).  One of the key
impediments for the mobility of clinical and outreach service
providers, as well as their supervisors, has been the lack of
adequate and timely release of funds for the purpose. The
Government has recently revised the Travel Allowance/Daily
Allowance (TA/DA) rates upward, roughly doubling the DA for all
ranks and increasing TA as well, which were frozen for nearly
twenty years. IDA funding of TA/DA is based on the premise that
without this field operations support for the outreach and clinical
workers and their managers, investments in personnel,
contraceptives and drugs, infrastructure and logistics, and all
other activities of the Program would continue to prove wasteful
and unproductive.
2.10      Clinical FP/MCH Units (US$1.5 million).  Since access to quality
FP/MCH clinical services is still very limited, IDA will supplement the
funding that is mostly expected from other donors (see Annex 1.5).  Under this
component IDA will support the establishment of five out of a total of 35
FP/MCH Clinical Units in selected District Hospitals in outlying rural areas.
Construction of these units will take place, commencing in the third year of
the Project.
2.11      Logistics and Supplies (US$1.1 million).  As shown in Annex 1.5,
contraceptives and essential drugs would be available from non-IDA sources.
Their storage, distribution, and follow-up, however, would remain major
problem areas, especially with the addition of 3,200 SHPs across the country.
There is a need to develop an effective logistics system, with need-based
delivery of supplies; and provide support to storage and distribution. Thus,
the Project will support the development of an effective logistics system and
fund the following sub-components of Logistics and Supplies:
(a) Construction and Renovation of Warehouses (US$0.4 million). The
Project will refurbish the dilapidated warehouses, and construct
and expand a limited number of them, all on existing sites. New
construction will commence in the third year of the Project.
(b)  Transportation of SuvDlies (US$0.4 million).  The Project will
cover the distribution of contraceptives, essential drugs, and
medical equipment procured from IDA and non-IDA sources, using
means appropriate for different terrains of the country. In the
past, the unreliable and irregular distributior. of these
commodities ilas seriously jeopardized service delivery. The
proposed component would constitute a modest but critical program
support to ensure the reliability and utilization of the health
infrastructures and outreach workers across the country covered
under the Project. The grant donors supplying most of the



-17-
commodities cover the cost of freight up to the central, and
sometimes regional, warehouses. IDA support is envisaged to cover
the distribution from these points to the district.s and outlying
health facilities, utilizing the private sector which has been
found in the Project's logistics analysis to be much more cost-
effective and practical, compared to the public sector, in view of
the low utilization of the public sector transport fleet,
seasonality of distribution, and prohibitive maintenance costs and
arrangements.
(c)  Field Operations SuDport (US$0.3 million).  To keep track of the
logistics, TA/DA support will be provided to the field supervisors
based at the regional level.
2.12      Institutional Development (US$3.4 million). For long-range
sustainability and capability building, several activities will be supported
under this component:
(a)  Management Information System - MIS - (US$1.1 million).  A
functioning record-keeping system at the field level is currently
lacking in the country. The problem has become acute in view of
the recent integration of previously vertical projects, funded by
various donors, each maintaining separate recordkeeping for
specific areas. An effective and integrated MIS for the FP/MCH
Program in general and the IDA-supported Project in particular is
an essential tool for maintaining household and client records
needed by service providers and their managers. It is also an
important monitoring mechanism to assess the achievement of the
stipulated FP/MCH goals, and an indispensable data base for
planning purposes. IDA will provide support to the development of
an effective field-based and integrated MIS and materials,
equipment, and training. The focus will be on ensuring reliable
records of worker visitation at the outreach level; specific FP/MCH
services delivered; supervisors' visits; and data compilation,
reporting, and feedback for monitoring and evaluation -- initially
in pilot districts and by the end of the Project period, throughout
the country. During negotiations, an understanding was reached
with the Government that in the event that grant funding becomes
available for this component by November 1994, the corresponding
amount under this component may either be cancelled, with prior
notice to IDA, or subject to IDA agreement, reallocated for other
Project-related purposes.
(b)  Clinical Training Centers (US$0.1 million).  The Credit would fund
the creation of seven small units in existing hospitals in the
national capital and regional headquarters in order to provide
facilities for on-the-job clinical training to various cadres of
service providers. The establishment of these units will start in
the third year of the Project.



-18-
(c)  Maintenance Capacity Development (US$0.1 million).  In the past,
major investments in infrastructure and equipment have proved
wasteful and underutilized as a result of their poor maintenanice.
This happened because of funding scarcity as well as lack of
technical expertise in the field. The Project will start building
up capacity in this area through technical assistance, training and
skill development, and preparation of training manuals.
(d)  Proiect Management (US$2.1 million). The Project will support the
staffing and operation of a full-time PIU within a three-tier
management system referred to in Chapter III. The Unit will be
responsible for monitoring Projec- implementation, liaising with,
and preparing documentation for IDA, as well as coordinating with
HMG's FP/MCH Program and other related agencies.
C. Project Costs and Financinq
Proje-t Costs
2.13      Cost Summary.  The total cost of the Project is estimated at
US$39.0 million equivalent, including contingencies estimated at US$5.2
million equivalent and applicable duties and taxes estimated at US$1.5
million. Details by category of expenditure and proportion of foreign
exchange are reflected in Annex 2 and summarized in Table 2.1 below.
2.14      Basis of Cost Estimates.  As the land for the new health centers
and warehouses is already owned by HMG, no p.:ovision has been made for land
acquisition. Civil works costs are based on current market rates and quantity
take-off estimates from the prototype drawings. Costs of vehicles, equipment
and furniture are based on lists of items prepared by MOH and IDA, and costed
at prevailing C.I.F. prices or local rates as applicable. Cost estimates of
consultant services for technical assistance reflect a mix of the United
Nations rates for foreign (including regional) and local consultants.
Architectural and Engineering (A&E) services are costed at rates prevailing in
Nepal for local consulting services. Goods specifically imported for the
Project may be admitted free of duties and taxes. Locally procured goods and
services, including materials for construction, carry duties and taxes at
varying rates.
2.15      Contingencies and Allowances.  Project cost estimates include
physical contingencies (US$0.8) averaging 2 percent of base costs (5 percent
of civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture). Price contingencies
(US$4.4 million, 13 percent of base costs) are escimated on the basis of local
cost escalation at the following annual rates -- FY95: 6.5%, FY96: 6%, and 5%
thereafter; and foreign costs as follows -- FY95: 2.4%, FY96: 3.2%, FY97:
3.4%, FY98: 3.2%, FY99: 3.3%, and FY2000: 3.4%.



-19-
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary
%    %Total
(NRs Million)         (US$ Million)   Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
.. O01TREACH SERVICE DELIVERY
Wil Workers/Sub-Health Posts     355.3    -   355.3     7.3     -    7.3        -    21
Hlcalth Posts                     316.5  165.3  481.8    6.5    3.4   9.8       34    29
Primarv Healt Centers            109.0  62.6  171.6      2.2    1.3   3.5      36    10
Field Operautns Support           351.5    -   351.5      7.2     -    7.2       -    21
Subtotal     1,132.3  227.8 1,360.1    23.1    4.6  27.8     17    82
B. FP/MCH CLINICAL UNITS            34.2  40.2   74.5      0.7    0.8   1.5       54     4
(C. LOGISTICS AND SUPPLIES
Stores Construction/Renovation     14.0   7.4   21.4      0.3   0.2   0.4       35      1
Supplies Transport                 14.6   3.2   !7.7     0.3    0.1   0.4       18      1
Field Operations Support           10.4   5.2   15.7      0.2    0.1   0.3      33      1
Subtotal        39.0  15.8   54.9     0.8    0.3   1.1       29     3
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Management Information System      27.4  24.8   52.2      0.6    0.5   1.1      48      3
Clinical Training Centers           4.2   1.8    5.9      0.1    0.0   0.1      30      -
Maintenance Capacity Development    2.1   2.2    4.2      0.0    0.0   0.1      52      -
Project Management                 74.2  30.9  105.1      1.5   0.6   2.1       29      6
Subtotal       107.8  59.7  167.5     2.2    1.2   3.4       36    10
Total BASELINE COSTS               1,313.3  343.6 1,656.9    26.8    7.0  33.8    21   100
Phisical Contingencies             21.9  15.5   37.4      0.4    0.3   0.8      41      2
P'rice C(onlingencies             190.0  27.3  217.3      3.9    0.6   4.4      13    13
Total PROJECT COSTS                1,525.2  386.5 1,911.7    31.1    7.9  39.0    20   115
2.16       Foreign Exchange ComDonent.  As shown in Table 2.1 above, the
estimated foreign exchange component (US$7.9 million, including contingencies)
represents 20 percent of total Project costs. It has been calculaced as
follows: (a) civil works: 30 percent; (b) equipment: 85 percent; (c)
vehicles: 25 percent; (d) foreign consultants: 85 percent; (e) studies: 40
percent; (f) operations and maintenance: 17 percent; and (g) consumables: 40
percent.
Financinq
2.17       of the total Project costs of US$39.0 million equivalent, the IDA
Credit of US$26.7 million (equivalent to SDR19.4 million) will provide 71
percent of Project costs net of taxes and duties estimated at US$37.5 million.
IDA will finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 61 percent or local
costs. HMG counterpart funding will represent US$10.8 million equivalent net
of taxes and duties (29 percent of the Project ccsts net of taxes and duties).
Detailed investment and recurrent costs for the Project are shown in Annex 2.
The summary Financing Plan is described in Table 2.2 below.



-20 -
Table 2.2: Financing Plan by Component
(USS Million)
Local
IDA          HMG           Total         For.  (Excl. Duties &
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %    Exch. Taxes) Taxes
A. OUTREACH SERVICE DEWIVERY
MCH Workers/Sub-Health Posts          -     -      8.9  100.0    8.9  22.7     -    8.9
Health Posts                        10.8  90.0    1.2  10.0   12.0  30.6   3.8   7.1    1.0
Primary Health Centers               3.7  90.2    0.4   9.8    4.1  10.5   1.4   2.3    0.3
FieldOperations Support              6.1  85.7    1.0  14.3    7.2  18.4       -    7.2
Subtotal        20.6  64.2   11.5  35.8   32.1  82.3   5.3  25.5    1.4
B. FP/MCH CLINICAL UNITS               1.6  89.0    0.2  11.0    1.8   4.7   0.9   0.8    0.1
C. LOGISTICS AND SUPPLIES
Stores Construction/Renovation       0.4  88.8    0.1  11.2    0.5   1.3   0.2   0.3    0.0
SuppliesTransport                    0.3  70.5    0.1  29.5    0.4   1.1   0.1   0.3    0.0
Field Operations Support             0.3  92.2    0.0   7.8    0.3   0.9   0.1   0.2
Subtotal         1.1  83.6    0.2  16.4    1.3   3.2   0.3   0.9    0.0
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Management Information System        1.1  94.7    0.1   5.3    1.2   3.0   0.6   0.6    0.0
Clinical Training Centers            0.1  90.1    0.0   9.9    0.1   0.4   0.0   0.1    0.0
Maintenance Capacity Development     0.1  92.8    0.0   7.2    0.1   0.2   0.'   0.0    0.0
Project Management                   2.1  86.8    0.3  13.2    2.4   6.2   0.7   1.7    0.0
Subtotal         3.4  89.5    0.4  10.5    3.8   9.8   1.3   2.5    0.0
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                    26.7  68.5   12.3  31.5   39.0  100.0   7.9  29.6    1.5
2.18       Retroactive Financing.  To facilitate early start-up, the Credit
will provide retroactive financing of SDR 150,000 (US$200,000 equivalent) for
expenditures for various Project components incurred prior to Project signing,
but after January 1, 1994.



-21-
D. Procurement Arrangements
2.19       The procurement methods are summarized as follows:
Table 2.3 Procurement Methods
(US$ million)
Project Element                      Procurement Method
ICB     LCB      Othera         Total
1. Civil Works and Related Furniture                14.9     0.3          15.2
(13.4)   (0.3)        (13.7)
2. Goods and Related Services
2.1  Equipment                           2.3     0.2      0.2           2.7
(2.3)   (0.2)   (0.1)          (2.6)
2.2  Vehicles/Transport                  0.7              0.2           0.9
(0.7)            (0.1)         (0.8)
3. Consultancy
3.1  Project                                              0.7           0.7
Implementation                                      (0.7)         (0.7)
Support
3.2  Capacity Building                                    0.7           0.7
and Institutional                                   (0.7)         (0.7)
Development
4. Training
4.1  Foreign                                              0.1           0.1
(0.1)         (0.1)
4.2  Local                                                0.3           0.3
(0.3)         (0.3)
S. Miscellaneous
5.1  Salaries                                             9.1           9.1
(0.2)         (0.2)
5.2  Allowances                                           7.8           7.8
(6.7)         (6.7)
5.3  Operations and Maintenance                           1.5           1.5
(0.9)         (0.9)
Total                                       3.0    15.1    20.9           39.0
(3.0)  (13.6)  (10.1)         (26.7)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Other procurement methods include force account, shopping, hiring of
consultant services following IDA guidelines and administrative
expenditures following Government procedures.



-22-
2.20      Civil Works and Furniture (US$15.2 million). These will consist
of: site improvements (including boundary walls and water service); repair
and renovation of Health Posts (HPs); construction of new Health Posts to
replace those in rented or temporary buildings and those in total disrepair,
Primary Health Centers (PHCs), FP/MCH Clinical Units, and Clinical Training
Centers; and construction and refurbishing of Warehouses. Procurement of
furniture and cabinetry will be packaged with bid packages for construction
works for PHCs, Health Posts, and FP/MCH Units that will include five to eight
buildings in outlying rural areas in each package and amount to about US$0.5
million. Since most of the civil works will be small and scattered rural
facilities, contracts will be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. This would not exclude interested
firms from outside Nepal from bidding. Warehouses and Clinical Training
Centers, located around the capital and regional headquarters, will be
packaged separately. Small civil works amounting up to US$60,000 will be
implemented by force account.
2.21      Goods and Related Services (US$3.6 million). Equipment and
vehicles will be grouped into packages of US$150,000 or more wherever possible
and will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA guidelines. For bid comparison, goods manufactured
domestically will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the C.I.F. costs
of the competing imports or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower.
For contract packages of less than US$150,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$600,000, LCB procedures acceptable to IDA will be followed except that
contracts below US$50,000 (up to an aggregate of US$200,000) for urgently
needed items may be procured under prudent local or international shopping
with price quotations from at least three suppliers. Local distribution of
contraceptives, essential drugs, and equipment provided for FP/MCH services
financed by IDA and other sources would be hired according to shopping
procedures acceptable to IDA, in packages not to exceed US$20,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000 during the Project period.
2.22      Consultancies and Training (US$1.8 million).  Local and
international consultants will be contracted to assist the MOH in the
development of a functioning logistics system, a trained maintenance force for
the physical plant, and a complete MIS system. A&E consultants will be
contracted by the PIU from time to time during Project implementation to
prepare site adaptation drawings, drawings for renovations and to supervise
the construction of all health facility buildings. All consultants will be
hired in accordance with IDA guidelines.
2.23      Procurement Plan.  To ensure speedy initial implementation of the
Project, detailed procurement plans have been prepared for the first two years
of the Project. These will be updated annually by HMG to provide a rolling
two-year procurement program as part of the procurement planning and review.
Civil works contracts estimated at US$250,000 or more will be subject to prior
review by IDA, and this is expected to cover about 90 percent of the
contracts. All goods tendered through ICB will also be subject to prior
review by IDA.



-23-
E. Disbursement
2.24      The proposed Credit will finance about 71 percent of total Project
costs, net of duties and taxes, and will be disbursed at the following
percentages: 90 percent of 3xpenditures on civil works and related furniture;
100* of expenditures on professional fees for Architectural/Engineering
services and other IDA-financed consultants and international training; 100
percent of foreign and local ex-factory expenditures on equipment and
vehicles; 75 percent of other local purchases of equipment, vehicles and
consumables (stationeries and office supplies); 95 percent of agreed local
training costs; and 100 percent of the salaries and operating costs of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Field operations support (TA/DA) will be
disbursed at the following rates: 100% until July 15, 1996, 90% until July
15, 1998, and 70% thereafter; while support to the cost of distribution of
contraceptives, essential drugs, and equipment will be shared 75%-25% between
IDA and HMG throughout the Project period. Disbursements will be made over a
six-year period, and the closing date will be December 31, 2000.
2.25      The Credit will cover certain recurrent expenditures for activities
that are currently in place and being expanded, including -- TA/DA support to
the service providers and managers throughout the country. The costs under
this component would be US$1.1 million for FY95. Full functioning of the
Project Implementation Unit in FY95 would require operational and salary
support of US$0.4 million. Thus, a total of US$1.5 million (38.5 percent)
would be disbursed for "softwares" with minimal new effort during the first
year. The remaining disbursement of US$2.4 million for other activities
during the year would mostly cover infrastructure development, preparation for
which is at an advanced stage.
2.26      Disbursements against contracts for:  (a) goods below US$50,000
equivalent, (b) individual consultants below US$5,000 equivalent, and (c)
civil works less than US$100,000 equivalent and works carried out by force
account, as well as salaries and operational support, will be made against
itemized statements of expenditure. Documentation supporting these statements
will be retained by the PIU for review by IDA missions. All other
expenditures will be fully documented. During negotiations it was agreed that
HMG will open a Special Account at the Nepal Rastra Bank to facilitate payment
of eligible minor expenditures. This account will be maintained in US Dollars
with an authorized allocation of US$500,000. The account will be used for
both local and foreign payments for items costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each, under all categories. All other expenditures will be
submitted to IDA for payment. It was also agreed during negotiations that, in
order to avoid any delay in fund release and Project implementation, the
Project Implementation Unit will be authorized to operate the Special Account
directly for disbursement in accordance with IDA requirements.



-24-
F. Status of Preparation
2.27      Significant progress has been made with pre-implementation
planning:
(a)  The Government's budget for FY94 already provides for an allocation
of Rs.10 million (about US$200,000) against the Project, reflecting
HMG's commitment for an early start-up.
(b)  Details of various software components, including support to MCH
Workers, Field Operations, Transportation of Supplies, MIS,
Maintenance Capacity, and Project Management have been defined and
agreed to in principle.
(c)  The Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established and the
core staff have been appointed. They are receiving in-country and
external training on IDA procedures and requirements. With support
from the Japanese PHRD Grant Fund, the PIU is handling further
preparation activities for the Project start-up, including: (i)
preparation of tender document packages for five prototype designs
for health facilities; (ii) detailed working drawings and
specifications; (iii) preparation of construction documents and
implementation of works identified for retroactive financing; (iv)
finalization of site adaptation of the prototype designs; and (v)
preparation of detailed equipment and furniture specifications.
(d)  Infrastructure DeveloQment.  The health and logistics
infrastructure development, which will involve construction work in
270 sites distributed throughout the country, will be phased over
the six years of the Project. Each year, contracts will be
organized into regional packages. Projects in each package will be
supervised by a full-time engineer who will be supported by on-site
overseers for each site. The number of sites to be included in
each category of health facilities improvement has been agreed to
with HMG. Specific sites for inclusion in the Project have been
identified based on overall need, as determined by a range of
objective criteria -- the data for which were obtained from the
nation-wide Infrastructure Survey referred to earlier. During
negotiations HMG confirmed (a) that all the sites for new
construction in the first two years are located on HMG-owned land,
and that there is no need for site acquisition, and (b) that there
are no liens or encumbrances on these sites. Sites for the
subsequent years will be finalized and acquired following the
Yearly Critical Dates for Civil Works Implementation (Annex 3.4),
and List of Sites for Health Facilities (Annex 3.6). Prototype
designs for each of the outreach health facility types have also
been prepared by HMG and reviewed by IDA. Final drawings,
specifications, cost estimates and technical conditions for tender
for the five prototype buildings (HPs and PHCs) were reviewed and
approved during negotiations.
I,,               ,



-25-
(e) Bidding Documents. IDA's standard bidding documents - SBDs - (for
small works) for civil works will be used, amended as appropriate.
This document, with suggested amendments by HMG, has been cleared
by IDA.
(f)  Lists of Ecquipment and Furniture.   Lists of equipment and
furniture have been reviewed by IDA (Project File) and have been
finalized in conjunction with the PIU.
III. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Organization and Management
3.1       The management structure for the Project (Annex 3.1) agreed to with
HMG will consist of: (a) a FP/MCH Development Board, chaired by the Minister
of Health and comprised of senior representatives of key HMG Ministries, with
responsibility for overall policy formulation and inter-Ministerial
coordination of HMG's FP/MCH Program and the IDA-supported PFH Project; (b) an
Executive Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Health and comprised
of the Director General, Department of Health Services, and MOH Divisional
Chiefs and representatives of other Ministries, responsible for monitoring and
directing the operations of PFH Project and coordinating Project activities
with the other components in the FP/MCH Program; and (c) a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), consisting of full-time senior personnel,
responsible for the day-to-day management and implementation of the PFHP, as
well as documentation necessary for IDA management. Core responsibilities at
various levels are outlined in Annex 3.1 as well. The PIU will also serve as
the secretariat of the Executive Steering Committee and give operational
support to the Development Board, and will serve primarily as a senior
management team in order to furnish detailed technical services relying
largely on private consulting firms, various HMG agencies, and individual
contract staff, as needed. Essential equipment, furniture, vehicles, staff
salaries, consultant fees and operating costs for the Unit will be provided
under the Project. The Unit will be headed by a Project Director and will be
assisted by a Deputy Director and four Chiefs responsible for four functional
Sections: Program Monitoring and Supervision; Logistics and Procurement;
Infrastructure Development; and Finance and Administration.
B. Implementation Plan
3.2       Implementation plans for various components of the Project are
detailed in Annex 3. These include specification of the key activities and
the critical dates envisaged for their completion during the Project period.



-26-
C.  Monitori    .nd Supervision
3.3       Project Monitorinq and Mid-term Review. Project monitoring will be
assisted by the management structure proposed for overseeing the PIU (para.
3.1), and through the detailed implementation schedules and performance
indicators for different activities outlined in Annexes 3.2-3.4, 3.7-3.8, and
3.10-3.12. The expansion of contraceptive use and family health services will
be monitored through the MIS records and periodic Demographic and Health
Surveys (DHS). During negotiations agreement was reached with HMG that it
will conduct with IDA, a comprehensive mid-term review of the Project no later
than May 31, 1997. Also during negotiations, agreement was reached with HMG
to have semi-annual progress reports from the PIU to IDA as well as an HMG-IDA
Project Completion Review, the scope and timing of which would be determined
during IDA reviews toward the end of the Project period.
3.4       Supervision Plans.  Supervision of the Project will require
additional staff weeks beyond the normal co-efficient for Nepal Projects.
This is due to: (a) the national scope of the Project which requires extensive
internal travel over difficult terrain; (b) the complex interdependency
between various software operations and the challenges of contraceptive and
drug distribution; (c) requirements for ensuring full operational status of
the health facilities; and (d) the need for extensive interaction with MOH/HMG
on IDA procedures and requiLements, this being the first IDA-supported Project
in the sector; and (e) the need for close donor coordination in the
supervision of the Government's overall FP/MCH program. At a minimum, the
Project will require bi-annual visits of FP/MCH and logistics specialists, and
an architect to review technical progress in addition to a management expert
experienced in the supervision of complex national FP/MCH programs. During
negotiations agreement was reached with HMG that it will review the status of
Project implementation jointly with IDA by March 31, 1995 and by March 31 each
year thereafter and finalize the plans for the following fiscal year. For the
Project start-up, this review will commence during the Project launch
workshop.
D. Accounts and Auditing
3.5       The PIU will establish and maintain separate accounts for all
Project expenditures and separate categories for each procurement account.
The accounts will be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices.
Accoumts and financial statements for each fiscal year will be prepared and
audited by the Office of the Auditor General of Nepal, who would be acceptable
to IDA as an independent auditor. Certified copies of the audited accounts
and financial statements, together with the auditor's report and auditor's
opinion on the operations of the Special Account and on Statements of
Expenditures will be furnished to IDA as soon as possible, but not later than
twelve months after the end of the fiscal year.



-27-
IV. PROGRAMS OF SPECIAL EMPHASIS
4.1       Environmental Protection.  The program supported by this Project
will have no adverse envircnn,ental effect ana is rated as a 'Category C'
operation. Indeed, the IDA assistance to family planning and MCH represents
an integral part of the environmental strategy for Nepal. Rapid population
growth, which has led to deforestation, breakdown in the fodder-livestock-soil
nutrient chain, and the expansion of cultivation into fragile slopelands, is a
major cause of degradation of the physical environment. Curbing population
growth is thus a prerequisite to solving the environmental problems, which are
more acute in the hills of Nepal, and are increasingly exerting pressure in
the terai. In addition, the Project will have direct positive effects on the
local environment by promoting health and sanitation education.
4.2       Poverty Alleviation.  Reduction of population growth should
represent a pivotal strategy for poverty alleviation in the country. The
contribution of the Project toward achieving this goal should be sianificant
both in terms of lowering the size of the population through the FP Program
and enhancing its quality through the MCH Program.
4.3       Women and Children in Development.  Women and children suffer the
worst as a result of implications of population pressure and poor health
conditions felt at the micro level of the household. The family planning as
well as MCH components would alleviate these conditions through reduced
pressure on the household economy; better health of mothers and children
resulting from child spacing and avoidance of vulnerable pregnancies; and
benefits of immunization and related programs. The Project would also support
the new cadre of female MCH Workers at the Sub-Health Post level to provide
clinic based and outreach services to women and children. Besides, support
for the female Auxiliary Nurse-Midwives at the Health Post and PHC levels
would increase utilization and access of the health facilities by the female
clients. Additionally, support for these two female cadres in HMG's programs
would create viable role models for the rural women for non-familial roles
that are promoted in women-in-development programs.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1       The Project would be a catalyst in helping the development of a
comprehensive program of population and family health, as a departure from the
erstwhile segmentation of efforts in the field. By meeting crucial financing
gaps in the national program, the Project would help ensure, for the first
time, the funding for HMG's total FP/MCH Program. Significant steps would be
taken to build a foundation for a strong program for ac:iieving the national
population objectives.



-28 -
5.2       By enhancing the utilization of services and promoting access to
the FP/MCH facilities, the Project would contribute to the welfare of the
family and better health of women and children at the micro level of the
household; and reducing poverty and environmental stress, and achieving other
national development goals at the macro level. Besides improving the quantity
and quality of care, the special focus on expanding the workforce of female
service providers would have an additional benefit of creating new role models
for rural women, which would facilitate women-in-development programs.
B. Risks
5.3       The principal risk would be the inability of the Government to
fully carry out the ongoing organizational reforms in MOH. This would
particularly concern the process of effective integration of FP/MCH and
related activities under the Primary Health Care system, along with
administrative and financial decentralization of the program at regional and
district levels. Given the problem of difficult terrain across the country,
failure to take appropriate measures in these areas would seriously handicap
the Project's execution. The joint annual HMG/IDA reviews will pay particular
attention to these issues while formulating the implementation plan for the
subsequent years.
5.4       Another major risk would entail the inability of the Government to
ensure the availability of appropriate domestic resources for the female MCH
Workers' salaries, considered crucial to implement the Project fully and
effectively. HMG has provided assurance to protect the budget for this, along
with other components of the IDA-supported Project, including non-wage
recurrent costs for O&M (see para. 5.9 below).
5.5       A third risk is the possibility of inadequate staffing due to
drastic staff reductions in MOH as a result of the administrative reforms
currently taking place in Nepal. In its public expenditure review dialogue,
IDA has emphasized the need to maintain a critical mass of staff for outreach
and clinical services as well as for program management and supervision in the
population and health sector. However, if staff are not available, the IDA-
supported program should be restructured to adjust to available staff levels.
5.6       HMG-Donor-NGO coordination has not proved easy in the past, and may
continue to be a challenge in view of the complexity of the national FP/MCH
program and the multiplicity of domestic and foreign actors involved in the
field. To minimize this risk, annual local Donor meetings would be held to
discuss implementation progress and constraints. As part of the coordination
process, the management plan for the Project envisages a number of mechanisms
for improved coordination.
5.7       A potential implementation risk is the MOH's unfamiliarity with
IDA's policies and procedures, especially procurement. Thus, the timely
achievement of the Project objectives may be difficult without close
monitoring. To address this concern, provision has been made for a project
launch workshop and for more frequent initial supervision by both Resident
Mission and Headquarters staff.



-29-
C. Sustainability
5.8       At a total cost of US$39.0 million, the six-year IDA-supported
Project would place a nominal burden (less than one percent) on the
Government's total public expenditures during that period. However, since the
IDA-supported Project is an integral component of the Government's
comprehensive FP/MCH program and would not stand on its own, it is necessary
to ensure that the overall FP/MCH program is sustainable. The estimated total
cost of the comprehensive FP/MCH program amounts to some U$127.0 million over
the six-year period (Annex 1.5), out of which capital and recurrent
expenditures account for $35.4 million and $91.6 million respectively. The
total annual expenditures of the FP/MCH program are projected to increase
gradually from about $15.0 million in FY95 to about $23.8 million in FY98,
before declining to $22.5 million in FY2000, the last year of the Project
period (Annex 1.6).  As a percentage of the total public expenditures, 21 the
share of the FP/MCH program would increase from 1.8% in FY95 to 2.1% in FY97,
before declining to 1.6% in FY2000 .22
5.9       Given these low percentages and given also the critical importance
of the Government's FP/MCH program for the country's development outlook, it
is highly unlikely that the FP/MCH program would crowd out other more
important claims on public resources. The sustainability of the program,
therefore, depends entirely on the Government's willingness to allocate
sufficient resources to the program. In the context of the on-going public
expenditure review and of the investment prioritization exercise, the
Government has included the entire FP/MCH program, along with other priority
health programs (immunization, malaria control and diarrhoea control), in the
so-called "core program," which is to be protected in case of unforeseen
budgetary shortfalls during any given fiscal year. While this does not
constitute an iron-clad guaranty against possible budgetary cutbacks, it does
signal the Government's seriousness about the FP/MCH program and it will
ensure more timely and streamlined fund releases to the FP/MCH program.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the
Government:
(a)  in the event that grant funding becomes available for the MIS
component by November 1994, the corresponding amount under this
component may either be cancelled, with prior notice to IDA, or
subject to IDA agreement, reallocated for other Project-related
purposes (para. 2.12(a));
21    Nepal - Fiscal Restructuring and Public Resource Management in the Nineties (Draft), The World
Bank, February 1994, Table 3.3.
22    Since the breakdown between development and regular expenditures in the Government's budget is
highly arbitrary and varies among sectors, more detailed comparisons between sectoral investment
costs and the development budget and between sectoral recurrent expenditures and the regular
budget are not particularly meaningful.



-30-
(b) HMG will open a Special Account at the Nepal Rastra Bank to
facilitate payment of eligible minor expenditures, and the Project
Implementation Unit will be authorized to operate the Account
directly for disbursement in accordance with IDA requirements
(para. 2.26);
(c) HMG will conduct with IDA, a comprehensive mid-term review of the
Project no later than May 31, 1997 (para. 3.3);
(d) the PIU will submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA, and an
HMG-IDA Project Completion Review will be carried out at the end of
the Project period (para. 3.3); and
(e) by March 31, 1995 and by March 31 each year thereafter HMG will
review the status of Project implementation jointly with IDA, and
finalize the plans for the following fiscal year; for the Project
start-up, this review will commence during the Project launch
workshop (para. 3.4).
6.2       Recommendation.  Subject to the above conditions, the Project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 19.4 million (US$26.7 million equivalent)
to the Kingdom of Nepal on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



-31-
AiinexS 1.1I
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Annex l.lA: Population and Hospital Distribution
Ecological                                  Health      Health
Belt         Hospitals        Beds         Centers     Posts       Population
(million)
Mountain            12             183            8        157             1.4
Hill                40           1,556            9        435             8.4
Terai               25           1,095            1        225             8.6
Nepal (Total)       77           2,834           18        816            18.5
Sources: MOH Health Information Bulletin, 1992.
PBpulation Census of Nepal, 1991.
Annex l.lB: Distribution of Nepal's Population by
Ecological Region, 1981 and 1991
Ecoloc*ical Region             1981
Mountain                        8.7                7.8
Hill                           47.7               45.6
Terai                          43.7               46.6
Source: Population Census of Nepal, 1981, 1991.



Nepal - Population Projection and Related Parameters. 1985-2030
Years
VariaWle                    1985       1990       1995      2000       2005       2010       2015       2020      2025      2030
Population (Millions)        16.7       18.9      21.5       24.1       26.8      29.4       32.0       34.4       36.6      38.7
Birth Rate (Per Thousand)         40.2      39.6       35.5       32.2       29.0      26.1       23.3       20.3       19.2
Death Rate (Per Thousand)         15.1      14.0       12.5       11.2       10.2       9.4        8.7        8.2        7.9
Growth Rate (Percent)             2.5        2.6        2.3        2.1        1.9       1.7        1.5        1.2        1.1
Total Fertility Rate (Per Woman)   5.9       5.6        5.0        4.4        3.8       3.2        2.8        2.4        2.2                  J
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)  51.0      52.6       54         56.8       58.5      60.4       62.3       64.3       66.3
Infant Mortality Rate (Per        127        117        106        93         83         73         63        53         43
Thousand Live Births)
Source: Eduard Bos et al., World Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition, The World Bank, 1992, pp. 354-355.



-33-
Arnnex 1.3
NEPAL
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) among
Currently Married Women by Tvye of Method (Percent)
Currently Married,       All Currently
Contraceptive Method           Non-Pregnant Women        Married Women
Any Method                    25.1                     22.7
Any Modern Method                    24.1                      21.8
Female Sterilization                    12.1                      11.0
Male Sterilization                      7.5                      6.8
Pill                     1.1                      1.0
Injection                     2.3                      2.1
Condom                     0.6                      0.r
Norplant                     0.3                      0.2
IUD                     0.2                      0.2
Diaphragm, Foam, Jelly                      0.0                      0.0
Any Traditional Method                      1.0                      0.9
Periodic Abstinence                      0.5                      0.5
Withdrawal                     0.5                      0.4
Others                     0.1                      0.1
Currently Not Using                    74.9                      77.3
Total                   100.0                    100.0
Source:   Nepal Fertility. Family Planning and Health Survey (1991), MOH/HMG,
1993.



National Population Program
NCD                  |
National Development Council
I
NPC                             aoa Comte  On Populatio
Charman; Prime Minister                i    Chairman. Prime Ministef 
Vice Chairman  
nvironment     Economic          onitoring        Regional          Program          Population
Dlision        lnayivision Dnanning                                 Division   Division L iii
Dvison              vision               n Division  Division
Line |
Agencies
|NGOs 
Private
Sector   ;



-35-
Annex 1. 4
Hierarchical Organization Structure of Ministry of Health  Page 2 of 6
|  Mnln5sry of Health     
NJepal Nurslng Council                                                                      O C epal Health Reeeartch CouncilT
Nepal Ayurvrld CouncilG                                                                    Lr* rN:eZ tl    CouP^nefl I
iDept. of Health                                      D* )pc of Drug    |        Dept. of     ;
| ServicRlea                                      Adminiistratton
|RCentral Hospiegtls                   |HE       Iotm
s               X                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~HomeopathlC
Hospetar
Nat TubrercllosCs nCentret
OENTRAL                                                                                                       o  Ayurved Hospitulng
LEVEL              _ou PbspitLb
+ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~oa Natlrnel Trisnnensetrr
.   .   .   . .    . .    . .    . .    . .    .    . .   . . .    . .    .   ...    . .    . .   . .    . .   . .    . .   . .   . .    . .   .   . .   . .    . .    . .   . .   . .    . .    . .    . .   . .   .    . .   .    .  ..................... ..
e.H  ServceDiectorateI
Retional Hospital
REGIONAL         |Regonal Training ConLre
LEVEL
|ORog  TubCruloses C ntrC
|Regional Medical Store  
................   .......................... ..... .......   .   . .   . .   . ....   .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   . .   . .   . .   .   . .   .   . .   .   .
ZONAL                                                                                                       ZnlAyurvd Dispen ar
LEVEL              Zonal Hospitl                    |ost
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .                                                                                                        Zon.al Ayurved Dlsp-anm-,-y-
...........................             .......          .    ..  ..  ..  ...   ..
|Distrtict Hoo pal        
DISTRICT                                                          r Onig M"eirwirt OtMilee    |
LEVEL
~~~~~. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .......... ............... ..... ... . ...
> ~~ELECTORAL
^         ~~CONSTITUENCYPfmyHelhCnr
. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. ............ ............. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . .. .
i          t~~EVEL                                            Health PostvdOlpnsr 
. . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . . .  . . .   I . . . . . . . .                                    . . . .  . . . . . . . .  ......... 
VDC LEVEL                                       | Sub Health  POSt|



Ministry of Health
Minister
Health Policy &
Advisory
Committee
Secretary
Health Councils                                                                                        i
Policy. Planning.
Adminhftatlon                                                              Foioreign Ad
Divivion    |ivin
Pirsonnel              Internal                Financial                          Plnning a                            Mon oring &
Administrallon         Adminislralion         Administration                       Programming                           Esluation
Section             a Managemenr              Section                             Secthn                                Section
Section
Organization A         Adm|nhslrStve                                                      Aid                              Computer
Management              Support for                                                                                      Processing
Sub.Sectlon            Swetdary &                                                                                       Sub-Section
Senior Officers
1* 
N
0.



Department of Health Services
F irepetpr7
I_      ,. I     .. . . . .   .   .    .   . .   .   ..                                 .   .
FinanceCentir PubNational                                                                                   Ntionl             Nal Health
SoctPon   SoHctlon                                                    e**th           Tuberculosi           Health           Edue. nrorm. 
Laboralory           Centto             Training         Com nunicslion
Crntfe              C*ntr]
Section            Soctilon        Sectilon                    Section            Sect Ion        Conir ol                          801nSotnScln |
l~~~~~WAt ldi ol
Sncion            Planning  . rIctio                       Control                        Sci                  ContMot       |   Disaen A            Inoormation    e
Section secSection                                                                        | Section          M a Unn gmecnt   i     S    cthn   io n
Section             SPIio



Department of Health Services
Family Health Division
Director
General                                         Summary  _
Class    Adm  Tech   Total
G4                 1      1
:.,>j. $  :~, .   .                   G-ll (US)  -        4      4
Director  .                                      G;II (AS)  -       2      2
_______________                       ~~~~~~     ~~G-111    6    6
G-l Tech(- 1-                                                        4
17     17
'IN-:    ~rny.lnng                                        Chil~ HbaRKh                        Aid's& STD
S,.NO (PHN) (US G-ll Tech) - I         PHA (US G-11 Tech)   I 1            PHA  (US G-ll Tech) -               Sr.PHO (US G-l1 Tech) -
PHO   (G-l1l  Tech)  -                 FPO  (G-l1l Tech) - 2               Sr.MO (GHS)                         H.Ed  (G4Il  Tech)    I
(Healh Inspection)                     (Health Inspection)                 (AS   G4i  Tech)      2             (Health Education)
PHN  (NG4 Tech)    I               Supervision Offce,
(0i1l   Tech)         2
(Health Inpecdion)
Supeivlsor
(NG.1   Tech)    -   3
I;
oH



-39-
Annex 1. 4
Page 6 of 6
Structure of Health Service Delivery
from District to Village
|District Heath and Curative Service Directorate's Office|
District Hospital (75) |                 District Public Health Section (75)
Electoral Constituency Level
Primary Hcalth Center (206)
1. Medical Officer          1
2. Health Assistant         1
3. A.H.W.                   3
4. A.N.M.                   3
5. V.H.W.                   1
6. Sweepers                 2
7. Maternity Bed            I
8. General Beds             2
(District Division Level)
Health Post (816)
1. Health Assistant  1
2. A.H.W.            2
3. A.N.M.            2
4. V.H.W.            1  j
(Village Development
Committee Level)
Sub Health Post (3199)
1. A.H.W.       1
2. V.H.W.       I
3. MCH Worker 1
Ward Level
Ward level Village Health Volunteers



NEPAL
HMG'S FPJMCH Program (FY95-2000)
Components by Financiers /a
(USS Million)
IDA      UNFPA    UNICEF    USAID          KfW     FINNIDA      HMG       Total
A. OUTREACH SERVICE DELIVERY
MCH Workers/Sub-Health Posts                       -          -        4.9           -      6.2           -     19.3       30.4
Health Posts                                    10.8          -          -           -        -           -      6.6       17.4
Primary Health Centers                           3.7          -        0.2           -        -           -      1.2        5.1
Monitoring&SupevisionSupport                     6.1        1.5          -                    -           -      1.0        8.7
Sub-total       20.7         1.5        5.1          -      6.2           -      28.1      61.7
B. CLINICAL FPIMCH SERVICES
FP/MCH Clinical Units                            1.6        0.2          -         4.5        -           -      0.4        6.7
Mobile Surgical Teams                              -        1.2          -           -        -           -      0.0        1.2
QualityAssurance Program              .            -        0.7 *        -         0.3        -         0.5        -        1.5
Other Clinical Activities                          -        0.2          -         3.5        -           -      4.9        8.6
Sub-total        1.6        2.4           -        8.3        -         0.5       5.3      18.1
C. LOGISTICS AND SUPPLIES
Contraceptives and Drugs                           -        4.2          -         8.0        -         1.3      0.0       13.5
Stores Construction/Renovation                   0.4          -          -           -        -           -      0.1       0.5
Supplies Transport                               0.3        0.2          -           -        -           -      0.2       0.6
Monitoring & Supervision Support                 0.3          -          -           -        -           -      0.0       0.3
Logistics Maintenance                              -        0.1          -           -        -           -      3.2        3.3
Otlher Logistics & Supplies                        -          -          -         1.5        -           -        -        1.5
Sub-total        1.0        4.5           -        9.5        -          1.3      3.5      19.8
D. IEC AND DEMAND GENERATION                           -         2.6          -        0.7        -            -        -       3.3
L POP. POL & IEC (NPC)                                 -         6.4          -          -        -                             6.4
F. HOSPITAL BOARDS                                     -           -          -          -        -            -      5.4       5.4
G. INSTMTTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Training                                           -        4.4          -           -                   1         -        5.5
Management Information System                    1.1        0.7          -         0.6        -           -      0.1       2.5
Clinical Training Centers                        0.1          -          -         0.7        -           -       1.0       1.8
Maintenance Capacity Development                 0.1          -          -           -        -           -      0.0       0.1
Project Management                               2.1          -          -           -        -           -      0.4       2.5
Sub-total        3.4         5.1          -        1.3        -          1.1      1.4      12.3
TOTAL           26.7       22.5         5.1       19.8      6.2         2.9     43.7      127.0
al     Source: MOH Financing Plan, August 1993 (Table 8), Donor inputs, and ccnsultations with HMG.
Note: These are indicative figures only, based on available data and nission projections.



NEPAL
HMG'S FPIMCH Program (FY95-2000)
Components by Year
(USS Million)
94195     95/96       96/97      97/98       98/99     99/2000          rotal
A. OUTREACH SERVICE DELIVERY
MC1H Workers/Sub-Health Posts                     2.7        3.6        5.1         6.1        6.4         6.6            30 4
Hlealth Posts                                     1.5        2.6         3.6        3.3        3.2          3.3           17.4
PrimaryHealthCenters                              0.7        1.0         1.3        1.0        0.9          0.2            5. 1
Monitoring& Supervision Support                   1.3        1.3         1.4         .5        1.5          1 5            8.7
Sub-total         6.2        8.4        11.4       11.9       12.1         11.7           61 7
B. CLINICAL FP/MCH SERVICES
FPlMCH Clinical Units                             0.9        1.1         1.3        1 4         1 6         0.4            6.7
Mobile Surgical Teams                             0.2        0.2         0.2        0 2        0.2          0 2            1 2
QualityAssurance Program                          0.2        02          02         0.3        03           0.3            1 5
OtherClinical Activities                          0.4        1.1         1.6        2.1         1 7         1 7            8.6
Sub-total         1.7        2.6        3.3         4.0        3 8         2.6            18.1
C. LOGISTICS ^ ND SUPPLIES
ContraceptivesandDrugs                            1.7        2.2         2.4        24         2.4          24            13.5
Stores ConstructiorJRcnovation                    0.1        0.2         0.1        0.0        0.1          0 0            0.5
Supplies Transport                                0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1          0.1            06
Monitoring & Supervision Support                  0.1        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0          0.0            0.3
Logistics Maintenance                             0.4        0.5         0.6        0.6        0.6          0.6            3.3
Other Logistics & Supplies                        0.2        0.2         0.3        0.3        0.3          0.3            1.5
Sub-total         2.5        3.3         3.5        3.5        3.5          3.5           19.8
D. IEC AND DEMAND GENERATION                          0.5         0.5        0.6         0.6        0.5         0.6            3.3
E. POP. POL & IEC (NPC)                               0.9         1.0        1.1         1.1        1.2         1.2            6.4
F. HOSPITAL BOARDS                                    0.9         0.9        0.9         0.9        0.9         0.9            5.4
G. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Training                                          0.7        0.8         0.9        0.9         1.0         1.2            5.5
Management Information System                     0.8        0.6         0.4        0.3        0.2          0.2            2.5
ClinicalTrainingCenters                           0.1        0.3         0.5        0.3        0.2          04             1.8
Maintenance Capacity Development                    -          -         0.1        0.0          -            -            0 1
Project Management                                0.8        0.6         0.4        0.3        0.2          0.2            2 5
Sub-total         2.4        2 3        2.2         1.9        1 6         2.0            12 3
TOTAL           15.1        19.0       23.0       23.8        23 6        22.5          127.0



NEPAL
Population and Family lieath Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(NRa Million)
OUTREACII SlRVICI. DEIIVERY                               l.O)tISTI('S AND) SUPPLI.S             INSnlnmONAI. DEVELO'PMENT
MCII WorkensJ             Primary      Field    'IP/MICll      Stores                    Feld        Management  Clinical   Maint   1'roject               Fhysical
Sub-llealth     Iealth   Ili:3th   Operations   Clinical   Construction   Supplics   Operations     Informatlion   Training   Capac   Manage-          Contingenciss
P'ost%        Posts   ('cntcrs    Support     llnits    Rcnovation   Transport    Supprt          Systcms      Ccnters    1kV      mcnt    Total    %    Arnmunt
1. Invrnment Costs
ACivilWork                                           -   404.1    141.6              -      29.7          173            -            -                -       56          -        -   5983    50         299
B. ProfessionalFcs                                   -        -         -            -         -              -          -            -                -         -         -      8 0      8      0
C.Furniturc                                          -     12.9       1.8            -       03            01            -            -                -       02          -        -      153 3
D. Equipmcnt                                         -     48.8     22.2             -      23 7           2 6           -            -             20 7       01          -      0 7    118 9    5 0       5 9
E. Vchicies                                          -        -         -            -       86             -           II            -              1 7          -        -     20 3     31 8    5 0       1 6
F. Techncal Assistance
Fomeign Consultants                               -       3.0      1.4                     1.5             -           -          6 2             49           -      2 6         -     19 5      -
Lecal Consultants                                 -              -          -                -             -           -            -              II          -      0 5      28 2     29 8
Intcenationl Fellowships                          -         -        -            -          -                                                                 *                4 4      4 4
Rcgional Fellowships
Subtotal                        -      3.0       1 4            -       I5              -           -          6 2              6 0         -         1     32 6     57 7
G Local Training                                     -        --          -                    -                         -          3 5              7 7                 I I        -      12 4
H Studics                                                -         -                                                                                                              49       49
Toial lnsetment Costs                                  -   468 8    167 0                     63 7           200          I 1          9 7            36 2        S 9      4 2     66 65    843 1    4 4     3-4 4 .
iI. Recurrent Costs
A Incrmmental Salanec                           355.3         -                                -             -           -                                                 -      8 1    435 1       -        *
B. Operations and Maintenance
Building NAint.                                   -      13.0      4.6            -        3 3           1 4                 -              -             -         -             -     22 3
Vehicles Maint.                                       3-             -                     3.1             -         71                             -173                                27 4
Fqupmncnt Maint                                   -         .        .            .        4 4             -                                                            .                4 4
Subtotal                       -      13 0      4.6             -      10 8           1 4         71             -                -         -         -     17 3     54 2
C Supplics Transporttion                                      -          -         -             -                     9 6                                                                     -  -  -  -  6
D. Consunnbles                                       -        -         -            -         -             -           -            -              7 6         -         -      03       3 9
E Travel and Daily Allowances                        -        -                 .151 5         -                                    6 0              2 5         -         -     11 0     82 9
TotalRecurrentCosts                               3553       130        46        3515         108            14         166          60              160                          387    8139
Total BASELINE tOSTS                               355 3    4SI 8     1716         351 5       74 5          214         17 7         15 7             522        5 9       4 2    103 I  1656 9    2 A       ; 4
PhysicalContingencres                                -     22 6      8 2             -       3 1           1 0         0 1            -              I         0           -      I 1     37 4
PriceContingencres                               790       813      219              *      118             19         28           10               41        08       05       121    2173    24          '2
Total 'ROJE(`T COSTS                               434 3    55 8    201 7          351 5       89 4          24 3        20 6         16 7            57 5        7 0      4 8    118 3  1,911 7    2 2       42
Fraxes                                                    502       170             -        41            20          00             -             0 1        07         -      02       744    48         z
Foreign I.xchangc                                         188 5     70 1             -      45 7           8 I         3 5          5 5            27 1        2 0      2 4      13 4    3R6 5    4        1(7
It t
0*
Os .



NEPAL
Population and Family Ilealth Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(USS Minion)
OUTREACII SERVICE DELIVERY                               LOGISTICS AND SUPPLES                 INSTITLrnONAL DEVELOPMENT
MCH Workerst              Primary     Ficld     FP/MCli       Stores                   Field       Management  Clinrial   Maint.  Project              Physical
Sub-llcalth    lIcalth   licalth   Operations   Clinical   Construction   Supplies   Operation   Information   Training   Capac.  Managc-           Continmics
Posts        Posts   Centers    Support      Units     Renovabton   Transport    Support         Systems     Centers    Dev.    ment    Total    %    Amount
L Investment Cos
A.CidWorks                                                 8.2      2.9                    0.6           0.4           -           -               -        0.1        -        -     12.2   5.0       0.6
B. Profcurml Fees                                       -             -            -         -             -           -           -               -          -        -      0.2      0.2           -
C. Fumss                                                   0.3      0.0                    0.0           0.0                                                0.0                 -      0.3
D. Equipmt                                          -      1.0      0.5            -       0.5           0.1           -           -             0.4        0.0        -      0.0      2.4   5.0       0.1
E.Vtdc                                             -         - -      -                    0.2             -         0.0           -             0.0              -           0.4      0.6   5.0       0.0
P. Techaicl A9SSitae
FCignC llmnb                                     -      0.1       0.0           -        0.0             -          -          0.1             0.1         -       0.1        -      0.4      -        -
LOcl ComtslatatA                                 -        -         -           -          -             -          -            -             0.0         -        .0     0.6      0.6      -        -
tu tial Fdw5                                     -         -        -            -         -             -          -            -               -    -              -      0.1      0.1      -        -
Regial FeiDowbip                                          -           -        -             - -         -          -                                           -             -        -
Subtota                               0.1       0.0           -        0.0             -                     0.1             0.1         -       0.1      0.7      1.1 
G. IAaTrainng                                     -         -        -            -         -             -           -         0.1             0.2          -      0.0        -      0.3
It Sldc.                                                     -        -                                    .-                                      .          -        .      0.1      0.1S-dc
Tetan,eslsftCosb                                      -      9.6      3.4                     1.3          0.4         0.0          0.2             0.7       01       01       1.4     17.2   4.4       0.8
IL RPcuret Costa
A. Incemena Saais                                7.3         -        -            -                      -            -                   -                 -         -      0.2      7.4      -
EL Opwetam asd M ln_tece
BtidiigMaiL-                                            0.3       0.1                    0.1           0.0          -                            -         -         -              0.5      -         -
V cs Maint                                       -        -         -           -        0.1             -        0.1            -               -         -         -     0.4      0.6      -         -
Equ*ntd Mabd                                     -        -         -           -        0.1                        - -          -                         -        -               0.1      -         -
Subtotl                        -      0.3       0.1            -       0.2           0.0        0.1            -               -         -         -      0.4      1.1
C. SuppSTrapthion                                  -         - -      -                      -             -        0.2            -               -          -        -        -      0.2
D. Cwntnabes                                                                                                                                     0.1                          0.0      0.1
ETraW and D*yAlwms                                 -         -        -          7.2         -             -          -          0.1             0.3         -         -      0.3      7.8      -
Total Recurent Cost                                 7.3      0.3      0.1          7.2       0.2           0.0         0.3         0.1             0.3       _           -      0.8     16.6      -        -
Todl BASELINE COSTS                                 7.3      9.8       3.5          7.2       1.5           0.4        0.4          0.3             1.1       0.1       0.1      2.1     33.8   2.3       0.8
PlyucilCoatisngecui                                -       0.5      0.2          -         0.1           0.0         0.0          -              0.0       0.0                0.0      0.8    -         -
Prces Cosrngectus                                 1.6      1.7      0.4          -         0.2           0.0         0.1         0.0             0.1       0.0       0.0      0.2      4.4   2.4       0.1
Total PRJECT COSTS                                  8.9      12.0      4.1          7.2       1.8           0.5        0.4          0.3             1.2       0.1       0.1      2.4     39.0   2.2       0.9
Taxes                                                      1.0      0.3            -       0.1           0.0         0.0          -              0.0       00         -       0.0      1.5   4.8       0.1
Foreign Exchange                                   -       3.8      1.4            -       0.9           0.2        0.1          0.1             0.6       0.0       0.0      n.7      7.9   4.3       0.3 PC
Oto
to_
9"
NQ



-44-
Annex 2.2
NEPAL
Population "'  Family Health Project
Project Coml..oeats by Year - Base Costs
JSS Million)
Base Cost
93/94 94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  Total
A. OUTREACH SERVICE DELIVERY
MCH Workers/Sub-Health Posts             -    0.6    0.9    1.2    1.5    1.5    1.5    7.3
Health Posts                             -    0.7    1.5    2.7    2.3    1.9    0.8    9.8
Primary Health Centers                   -    06    0.8    1.0    0.8    0.2    0.1    3.5
Field Operations Support                 -    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.3    7.2
Subtotal             -    2.9    4.4    6.1    5.8    4.9    3.6   27.8
B. FPJMCH CLINICAL UNITS                    -    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.1    1.5
C. LOGISTICS AND SUPPLIES
Stores Construction/Renovation         0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4
Sn.pplies Transport                    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.4
.:ieldOperations Support                 -    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3
Subtotal           0.0    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    1.1
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Management Information System            -    0.1    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.1    1.1
Clinical Training Centers                -       -    0.0    0.1    0.0       -      -    0.1
Maintenance Capacity Development         -       -      -    0.1    0.0       -      -    0.1
Project Management                     0.2    0.4    0.5    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2    2.1
Subtotal           0.2    0.5    0.8    0.7    0.6    0.4    0.3    3.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                      0.2    3.8    5.7    7.3    6.9    5.8    4.0   33.8
Physical Contingencies                 0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.8
Price Contingencies                      -    0.1    0.3    0.8    1.1    1.2    0.9    4.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                       0.2    3.9    6.2    8.3    8.2    7.1    5.0   39.0
Taxes                                  0.0    0.1    0.2    0.4    0.4    0.3    0.1    1.5
Foreign Exchange                       0.1    0.9    2.0    2.2    1.4    1.0    0.4    7.9



-45-
Annex 2.3
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
EDA Disbursement Schedule
Amounts       Cumulative             Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year              Disbursed     Disbursements     Disbursements  Disbursement
& Semester                 (- USS Million           )        Percentage       Profile
1994
1st (January 94 -June 94) /a          0.20              0.20                1%
199S
1st (July 94 - December 94)           1.54              1.74                7%
2nd (January 95 - June 95)            1.54              3.29               12%            3%
1996
1st (July 95 - December 95)           2.46              5.75               22%
2nd (January 96 - June 96)            2.46              8.20               31%            8%
1997
Ist (July 96 - December 96)           3.13             11.33               42%
2nd (January 97 - June 97)            3.13             14.46               54%           22%
1998
1st (July 97 - December 97)           2.81             17.27               65%
2nd (January 98 - June 98)            2.81             20.07               75%           42%
1999
1st (July 98 - December 98)           2.14             22.21               83%
2nd (January 99 - June 99)            2.14             24.35               91%           67%
2000
1st (July 99 - December 99)           1.18             25.53               96%
2nd (January 2000 - June 2000)        1.18             26.72              100%           84%
2001
Ist (July 2000 - December 2000)
2nd (January 2001 - June 2001)                   -                          -            98%
2002
1st (July 2001 - December 2001)
2nd (January 2002 - June 2002)                   -                          -           100%
Closing Date: December 31, 2000
a/ Retoactive Financing of S200,000.



-46-
Annex 3.1
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Management Structure
HM
Policy + Inter-Ministerial                          FP/MCH Program                         MOH, Minister (ChairTnan)
Coordination                                        Devel                                  MOH. Secretary
}  MOH, DO, DFIS/MOH
MOH, Chief Planning Division
(Member Secretary)
* MOF, Chief for Foreign, Aid Division
* MHPP, Secretary
* NPC, Chief Pop. & Health Division
||X <si                           ~~~~~~~~~* MOH, Secretary (Chairman)
|                              .*(PFHP)         MOH, Chief Planning Div. (Coordinator)
Intra-Ministerial Coordination                          Executive                         * MOH, DO, DHS
Steering      ttee                       MOH/DHS, Director, Planning Division
* MOH/DHS, Director, Family Health Division
MOH/DHS, Director Logistics Division
* MOF, UnderSecretary, Foreign Aid Division
* MHPP, Director-General, Depatment of
Buildings
P* PU Director
Managemaent Monitoring
and Implementation                             Project Implementation Unit
Prepare status reports                                 (PFHP)
for S. C., Board & IDA                               PW_ PIUDirecto
Project bIplementation Unit
(PFHP)
PIU Deputy Drco
rPrograrn MonitoringA &                Logistics & Prc -                       Infifastructure                 Fiac &  d;;1
Supwnision Setion                         n < men Section                  IDevlomn Swnionxl                      Section _  _
* Monitor general program performance    * Coordinte logistics infrastnucture  * Prepare all design         * Project accounting
* Compile data from MOW donors &        with logistics system development     bid documents                 * Funding disbursements
others on service delivery.          * Monitor regional logistics          * Manage all bid & award        * Financial auditing
* Field visits to verify performance    supervisorM cells                    procedures                     * Office adrministration support
indicators                           * Prepare bid documents               * Supenvse construction activities   * Financial reporting
' Status reports for S.C., Board & IDA  * Manage all bid procedures          & implementation schedule
Monitor supervision & outreach         Monitor installation in facilities  * Monitor & revise
service delivety support                                                    inplemention schedule on
* Monitor & supavise implementation                                          service delivery perfomance
of MIS Program activities



Project Implementation Schedule: Nepal - Population and Family Health Project
Pre-Proj.      Year 1          Year 2         Year 3          Year 4          Year 5         Year 6
Acdlvitlesl/Time ScheduLe -FY                     93 194          94 /95         95 196          96 /97          97198          98199           99 2000
A. Instititutonal Dev. & Project Management
Finfflize Management Plan/ Est. Core PIU 
PIU Staff Training. & EquipNVeNcices Procurement
PIU Operations & Support
MON  Maintenance  Capacity  Dev.IT.A.&Training   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
8. Program Dcv., Monitoring & Supervision
Define Program & Services Supp. Performance Crit.
Support to MOH Monitoring & Supervision
Monitoring of MOH Support                                                               -ma                                             mm
MIS Analysis & Design /Tech. Assistance                                                     M
MIS - Equipment & Supplies Procurement
MIS   - Training                              __ _  __ _ __  _ __ _ __  _ _                   _ __  _ __ _   __ _ __  _ __SEEN =_      _ _   _ __ _ __  _
C. Logistics System Development Support
-I
Define Logistics Monitoring Plan
Rt,pair of Ex. Warehouses                         T
New Warehouse ConstructionD                                                                 TTT
Warehouse Equip. & Furn., Vehicle Procurement
Transportation Support
Logistics Monitoring
Logistics Tech. Assistance                                                  am______________   mm___       mm______        I=______        m m______
D. Health FacRiitis Improvement
Finalize Project Implementation Plan
Prepare Sample Bid Documents & Site Selection
Prepare Design & Tender Document
New HP ConstructionTTTTTT
Add'I. Works Existing Health Posts                            TTTBESE                                         
PHC Construction/UpgradingTTTT
New FP/MCH UnitsD                                                                            TTT
New Clinical Training CentersD                                                               TTT
Prepare Equip. Specifications & Bid Documents
Tender & Procurement - Equipment_fAnnual_Pkgs)  _______________________
Legend: D = Design    T = Tender/Award Period
m
N4



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CIVIL WORKS
PROJECT               1                    2                   1                   4                    5                     6
YEAR                    TOTAL
FISCAL              94/95                95/96               96/97               97/98                98/99               99/2000
YEAR
No.      No. of   No.         No. of   No.         No. of   No.        No. of   No.         No. *f   No.         No. of
BUIIDING      of        Tender   of          Tender   of         Tender   of         Tender   of           Tender   of          Tender
TYPES          Bldgs.   Pack      Bldga.    Bldgs.   Bldgs.   Pack          Bldgs.   Pack       Bldgs.    Pack       Bldgs.    Pack
NEW PHC                               1                   2                   2                                                               5
UPGRADED
PHC              5         1          4         1         4         1         4         1          2          1         1          1         20
NENW  EALTH      2M                  SM                   6M                  6M                  4M                    2M                    25
POST             2H        2         5R         3        13H        5        13H        5         12H         S         SH         3          50
ST                  ST                  13T                 12T                  10                   ST                    so
RENOVATED
HP               7         2         15         3         25        4         27        S         20         4          6          2         100
PP/MCH I                                                                      2                    2                                          5                                      >
UNITS
. INI=AL                                                  2                   3         1          2         2=                               7
TEG CTRS
NEW
WARMIOUS                                                  2                   1                    1                                          4
| RBPAIR         2                    2                                                                                                       4
APPROX.
NO. OF
PACKAGES                   5             7         1         017 10                     12                   11                    6
LEGEND? N - Mountain                                Note - Warehouse Construction and repairs will not be done in this
H - Hill                                            -ackage system.
T - Terai



YEARLY CRITICAL DATES FOR CIVIL WORKS IMPLEMENTATION
YEAR 1                                                    YEAR 2 (3,4,5)
PROJECT PANAGENENT         JAN   APR   MAY   MAY   JUNE   JUNE   JULY    AUG    AUG          OCT   OCT 15-   JAN   APR   MAY   MAY   JUNE   JUNE
ACTIVITIES             15    1      1     30      21    23      15      1       25-30   15    JA  15    15    1        1     30    21       23
PIU Contracts Consultants
to Prepare Site Adaptation
or Renovation Drawings          X                                                                                  X
PIU Receives Site
Adeptation and Renovation             X                                                                                  X
Drawings
Start Advertising for
Tender. Remind Consultants                                                                                               X
to Contract for Site SPN              X
Issue Tender Docunents                       X                                                                                 X
tenders Received mnd                                                                                                                  X
opened Pubticty                                    X                                                                                                                     4
Tenders Evatuation                                                                                                                           X
Complete                                                 X
Tender Evaluation Sent to
IDA                                                              K                                                                                  x
Approval And/Or Couments
from IDA                                                                X
Approval From Project
MNwagement                                                               K
Issue of Constr. Contract
nd Advance Payment                                                               X
Start Construction              =
Site Selections for
Folloifng Year to IDA                                                                            X
Evaluate Consultants and
Contractors of Past Year                                                                                X =
w



-.50-
Annex 3.5
LIST OF SITES FOR FIRST AND
SECOND YEAR CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
FOR HEALTH FACILITIES
Primary Health Centers (PHCs)
1st Year                                                         District
Upgraded from Health Posts         1.  Katari                     Udayapur
2.  Yadukuha                  Dhanusha
3.  Baggauda                  Chitawan
4.  Damauli                   Tanahu
5.  Patan                     Baitadi
2nd Year
New                              1.  Mangalbare                Morang
Upgraded from Health
Posts                          1.  Gausala Bazar             Mahottari
2.  Satwariya                 Parsa
3.  Dumkauli                  Nawalparasi
4.  Kanchanpur                Saptari
Health Posts (HPs) New
1st Year                           1.  Sabaila                   Dhanusha
2.  Mahendrakot               Kapilbastu
3.  Garkhakot                 Jajarkot
4.  Jhurkiya                  Morang
5.  Sitalpati                 Sankhuwasabha
6.  Rampur                    Okhaldhunga
7.  Godar                     Dhanusha
8.  Sinurjoda                 Dhanusha
9.  Betani                    Makawanpur
2nd Year                           1.  Devisthan                  Sindhupalchok
2.  Aru Chanaute              Gorkha
3.  Chitithala                Lamjung
4.  Dhakadhahi                Rupandehi
5.  Jharkot                   Mustang
6.  Ila                       Dolpa
7.  Deudakala                 Bardiya
8.  Phattepur                 Banke
9.  Hekapa                    Humla
10. Raikawar-Bichawa          Kanchanpur
11. Sirkot                    Achham
12. Khiratadi                 Bajhang
13. Sinam                     Taplejung
14. Kumar Khoda               Jhapa
15. Chisapani                 Khotang



-51-
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 2
PROPOSED SITES - PRIMARY HEALTH CENTERS (PHCs)
District                        Present Health Post
Area
A.   Eastern Region:
1    Ilam                                    Bajhigaon
2    Jhapa                                   Dhulabari
3    Bhojpur                                 Kaltang
4    Morang                                  Mangalbare (New site)
5    Morang                                  Bayerban
6    Sunsari                                 Itahari
7    Udayapur                                Katari
8    Saptari                                 Kanchanpur
9    Siraha                                 Malahniya
B.    Central Region
1    Sindhuli                                Sirthuli
2    Dhanusha                                Yadukuha
3    Mahottari                               Gausala Bazar
4    Sarlahi                                 a) Bhaktipur
b) Sisutia
5    Chitawan                                Baggauda
6    Makwanpur                               Palung
7    Parsa                                   Satwariya
8    Bara                                    a) Simrangara
b) Simra
9    Rautahat                               Dumariya Motiwan
C.    Western Region
1    Gorkha                                 Makat Singh
2    Kaski                                   Shisuwa
3    Tanahu                                  Damauli
4    Syangja                                 Garun Dhyanling
5    Nawalparasi                            Dumkauli
6    Palpa                                   Tanahu
7    Rupandehi                               Lumbini
8    Kapilvastu                              a) Maharajganj
b) New site (Possibility of
new site in between Ilaka no.
9 and 10)
9    Gulmi                                  Aslewa



-52-
Annex 3.6
Page 2 of 2
District                        Present Health Post
Area
D.    Mid-Western ReQion
1    Dang                                    Tulsipur
2    Banke                                   Bankatwa
3    Bardiya                                 Rajapur
4    Surkhet                                 Saharkot
E.    Far-West
1    Kailali                                 Tikapur
2    Kanchanpur                              Sripur
3    Baitadi                                 Patan
4    Darchula                                Rithachaupata
Summary Distribution of Potential Sites
Regional Category      Far-       Mid-      Western   Central   Eastern  Total
Western    Western
Terai                 2            3        3          7          6       21
Hills                 1            1        6          2          3       13
Mountains             1            -        -          -          -        1
Total                 4            4        9          9          9       35



-53-
NEPAL
Annex 3.7
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
COMPONENT: LOGISTICS
PRE-PROJECr        POST PROJECT EFFECTIVENESS
ACTIVITY                  YEAR         1       2       3      4       5       6
93/94     94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00
Element: Misc. civil works
Job: Bridge repair, Pathalaiya
_ Perimeter wall, Pathalaiya
Water system, Pathalaiya                                  __               _
Nepalgunj compound wall               ...... ...........-,_
lement: Renovations, Repairs
Job: Bldg. #3 roof repair, Pathalaiya                          -e                =
Bldg. #1 roof repair, Pathalaiya                  .s._-
Bldg. #2 roof repair, Pathalaiya                   ......
Bldg. #4 roof repair, Pathalaiya
Bldg. #1 roof repair, Butwal                          -___:
Staff quarter construction, Biratnagar                                   ___aa
Bldg. #2: roof repair, Nepalgunj                                                         ______..
Bldg. #1: construct second storey, Nepalgu i
Bldg. #4: construct second storey, Nepalgux _i _*sf_a
Construct generator house, Nepalgunj                 ...___
_Old bldg. roof repair, Nepalgunj
Roof repair, Dangadhi                         a       ' ,; '.             *
Conversion of garages, Teku Central Whse                 ---       .-__ ,___==
Element New Construction
Job: Regional whse, Biratnagar
Malaria whse, Pathalaiya
Staff quarters, Pathalaiya                                            X; ,*
Central whses, Teku
Subregional whse, Dipayal                -.=.=.=.=.=
Element Logistics monitoring
Job: Motorcycle procurement                               a
Monitoring trips                                                                     .. .. ...
Procurement of Equipment/Furniture
lement Warehouse equipment
Job: Warehouse furniture
Element Transportation
Job: movement of supplies
Element Training/Technical Assistance
Job: organize training sessions                             X       X      X       X       X      X
conduct technical support assignments                 XX     XX      XX



-54-
Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 7
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR FIELD-BASED INTEGRATED
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
A.    Pre-Project Activities (up to July 1994)
1.    In consultation with IDA, identify local and international resource
person(s) for Technical Assistance in the following areas:
Review of existing management information system.
Finalization of reporting forms and registers to be used in pilot
districts.
Detailed implementation schedule for MIS after July 1994.
Identifying required equipment for the implementation of the pilot
MIS.
2.    Liaise with other donors for MIS by MOH.
3.    Full staffing of the MIS Section in the Planning Division of the
Department of Health Services.
4.    Procurement of required vehicle and equipment.
Indicators
By July 1994:
MOH will provide the name(s) of the local and international resource
person(s).
MOH will provide a working schedule for these resource person(s).
All staff at the MIS Section of the Planning Division of the
Department of Health Services will be in place.
MOH will complete a review of the existing management information
system and will present the findings to the World Bank.
MOH will present the registers and forms to be used in the pilot
districts.
MOH will provide the names of the pilot districts.
MOH will provide a detailed implementation schedule for MIS during
the Project period.
MOH will provide a list of the equipment procured for the pilot MIS.



-55-
Annex  3.8
Page 2 of 7
B.    Activities in Year One: 1994/95
Implementation of the pilot MIS over an estimated one-year period (July 94
- June 95):
1.    Printing of forms and registers to be used in pilot districts.
2.    Procurement of equipment for the Regions and Districts involved in
the pilot MIS.
3.    Training of staff from MIS Section of the Planning Division in the
Department Health Services and the Planning, Monitoring and Data
Section of relevant Regional Health Services Directorates.
4.    Training of staff of the Statistics Section of the District Health
Office, and staff of health facilities in the pilot districts.
5.    Distribution of forms and registers to DHO and health facilities in
the pilot districts.
6.    Distribution of equipment to the Regional Health Directorate and
District Health Office involved in the pilot MIS.
7.    Ongoing supervision of health workers in the utilization of MIS:
reporting and feedback.
B.   Mid-term evaluation of the utilization of MIS in the pilot districts
by local resource persons.
9.    Preparation of a model annual report, based on the pilot MIS.
10.   Two District level MIS review meetings (January and May 1995) to be
attended by representatives of the DHO and health facilities in the
pilot  districts,   chaired  by  the  relevant  Regional  Health
Directorate.
11.   Identification of local and international resource persons who will
evaluate the pilot MIS.
Indicators
By the time of the arrival of the First Supervision Mission (by December 1994):
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from central,
regional and district levels involved in the Pilot MIS.
MOH will provide a list of equipment, forms and registers, and the
places where these have been distributed.
MOH will produce a progress report, including a sample annual report
based on the information generated through MIS.



-56-
Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 7
By the time of the arrival of the Second Supervision Mission (by June 1995):
MOH will present the Mid-term evaluation report as prepared by
local resource persons.
MOH will present the reports of the two district level MIS review
meetings which will take place in the pilot districts.
MOH will provide the names of the local and international resource
persons who will evaluate the pilot MIS.
C.    Activities in Year Two: 1995/96
1.    Evaluation  .f the pilot MIS by local and international resource
persons (September 1995).
2.    Continuation of MIS in the former pilot districts.
3.    Expansion of MIS to other districts in a phased manner; number,
location and timing to be decided by MOH, based on recommendations
made by the evaluation team:
a.    Printing of forms and registers to be used in all districts
involved in MIS.
b.    Procurement  of  equipment  for  the  regions  and  districts
involved in MIS.
c.    Training of staff from MIS Section of the Planning Division in
the Department of Health Services and the Planning, Monitoring
and Data Section of relevant Regional Health Services
Directorates.
d.    Training of staff of the Statistics Section of the District
Health Office, and staff of health facilities in the relevant
districts.
e.    Distribution  of  forms  and  registers  to  DHO  and  health
facilities in the relevant districts.
f.    Distribution of equipment to the relevant Regional Health
Directorates and District Health Offices previously not
involved in the pilot MIS.
g.    Ongoing supervision of health workers in the utilization of
MIS: reporting and feedback.
h.    One District  level MIS review meeting  (May 1996)  to be
attended by representatives of the DHO and health facilities
in the district, chaired by the relevant Regional Health
Directorate.



-57-
Annex 3.8
Page 4 of 7
4.    A short-term review of MIS by local and international resource
persons to assess progress and address possible problems (May 1996).
Indicators
By the time of the arrival of the Third Supervision Mission (by December 1995):
MOH will. present the Pilot MIS Evaluation Report, prepared by local
and international resource persons.
MOH will provide a list of districts to which the MIS will be
expanded, including a timetable.
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from central
level, as well as from regions and districts newly involved in MIS.
MOH will provide a list of equipment, forms and registers, and the
places where these have been distributed.
By the time of the arrival of the Fourth Supervision Mission (by June 1996):
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from regions and
districts newly involved in MIS.
MOH will present a summary report of the district level MIS review
meetings which will take place during 1995/96.
MOH will present the short-term review prepared in May 1996.
D.    Activities in Year Three: 1996/97
1.    Continuing expansion of MIS:
a.    Printing of forms and registers to be used in all districts
involved in MIS.
b.    Procurement of equipment for the regions and districts newly
involved in MIS.
c.    Training of staff of the Planning, Monitoring and Data Section
of relevant Regional Health Services Directorates and
Statistics Section of the District Health Office, and staff of
health facilities in the,relevant districts.
d.    Distribution  of  forms  and  registers  to  DHO  and  health
facilities in the relevant districts.
e.    Distribution of equipment to Regional Health Directorates and
District Health Offices newly involved in MIS.
f.    Ongoing supervision of health workers in the utilization of
MIS: reporting and feedback.



-58-
Annex 3.8
Page 5 of 7
g.    One District  level MIS  review meeting  (May 1997)  to be
attended by representatives of the DHO and health facilities
in the district, chaired by the relevant Regional Health
Directorate.
2.    A short-term review of MIS by local and international resource
persons to assess progress and address possible problems (May 1997)
Indicators
By the time of the arrival of the Fifth Supervision Mission (by December 1996):
MOH will provide a list of districts to which the MIS will be
further expanded, including a timetable.
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from regions and
districts newly involved in MIS.
MOH will provide a-list of equipment, forms and registers, and the
places where these have been distributed.
MOH will present the first annual report (1995/96) based on
information provided through MIS in relevant districts.
By the time of the arrival of the Sixth Supervision Mission (by June 1997):
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from regions and
districts newly involved in MIS.
MOH will present a summary report of the district level MIS review
meetings which will take place during 1996/97.
MOH will present the short-term review prepared in May 1997.
S.    Activities in Year Four: 1997/98
1.    Completion of expansion of MIS.
2.    Printing of forms and registers to be used in all districts involved
in MIS.
3.    Procurement of equipment for the remaining regions and districts.
4.    Training of staff of the Planning, Monitoring and Data Section of
the remaining Regional Health Services Directorates and Statistics
Section of the District Health Offices, and staff of health
facilities in the remaining districts
5.    Distribution of forms and registers to DHO and health facilities in
all districts.



-59-
Annex 3.8
Page 6 of 7
6.    Distribution  of  equipment  to  the  remaining  Regional  Health
Directorates and District Health Offices.
7.    Ongoing supervision of health workers in the utilization of MIS:
reporting and feedback.
8.    One District  level MIS  review meeting  (May 1998)  attended by
representatives of the DHO and health facilities in the district,
chaired by the relevant Regional Health Directorate.
9.    A short-term review of MIS by local and international resource
persons to assess progress and address possible problems (May 1998)
Indicators
By the time of the arrival of the Seventh Supervision Mission (by December 1997)
MOH will provide a list of districts to which the MIS will be
further expanded, including a timetable.
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from regions and
districts newly involved in MIS.
MOH will provide a list of equipment, forms and registers, and the
places where these will be distributed.
MOH will present the second annual report (1996/97) based on
information provided through MIS in relevant districts.
By the time of the arrival of the Eighth Supervision Mission (by June 1998):
MOH will provide a report of the training of staff from regions and
districts newly involved in MIS.
MOH will present a summary report of the district level MIS review
meetings which will take place during 1997/98.
MOH will present the report prepared by the short-term review in May
1998.
F.    Activities in Years Five and Six (1998/99 & 1999/2000):
a.    Continuation of monitoring MIS.
b.    Printing and distributing of forms and registers.
c.    Ongoing supervision of health workers in the utilization of MIS:
reporting and feedback.
d.    One District level MIS review meeting  (May 1999 and May 2000)
attended by representatives of the DHO and health facilities in the
district, chaired by the relevant Regional Health Directorate.



-60-
Annex 3.8
Page 7 of 7
e.    Refresher training for district health staff.
f.    Final Evaluation of the integrated MIS by a team of local and
international resource persons (May 1999 and May 2000).
Indicators
By the time of the arrival of the Ninth Supervision Mission (by December 1998):
MOH will present the third annual report (1997/98) based on
information provided tbrough MIS in all districts.
MOH will provide a report of the refresher training of staff from
districts involved in MIS.
MOH will present a summary report of the district level MIS review
meetings which have taken place during 1997/98.
By the time of the arrival of the Tenth Supervision Mission (by June 1999):
MOH will present the evaluation report of integrated MIS prepared by
the evaluation team in May 1999.
MOH will finalize plans for Year Six (1999/2000).
During Year Six (1999/2000):
MOH will continue the monitoring of the field-based integrated MIS,
evaluation of data compilation and processing, and feedback at
various levels; and prepare final reports on the MIS experience for
joint review by MOH and IDA Supervision Missions with a view to
finalizing MIS instrumentation for implementation throughout the
country.
I 



-61-
Annex 3.9
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Logistics
6 months international TA            Short-term consultant to
12 months local TA                   assist MOH in four ways:
1.  Help organize annual training
programs for all logistics
staff.
2. Review activities of Regional
Monitoring and Supervision Teams
and develop solutions to
problems.
3. Review transportation system;
evaluate; develop solutions.
4. Systematically assess need for
additional storage space.
Maintenance CaDacity Buildina
3 months international TA            1.  To develop and conduct a
18 months local TA                        training Workshop for local
staff who will become
trainers for fac4.lities
management and maintenance.
2. . :pare maintenance
i. .ruction manual for use by
local trainers.
MIS
5 months international TA              1.  Assess needs and gaps in MIS.
36 months local TA
2. Develop instrumentation, data
collection, and analysis
plans for field records and MIS
feedback at various levels.
3.  Develop training modules and
conduct training of trainers at
various levels.
4. Set up pilot MIS in selected
Districts, and formulate plans
for expansion throughout the
country.
5. Help MOH establish a function-
ing field-based and
integrated MIS.



-62-
Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMiILY HEALTH PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION MONITORING PLAN
1.        The Infrastructure Development Section of the PTU will be
responsible for all construction activities of the Project. This section will
consist of the following, and will be augmented by staff and/or consultants as
needed:
1 Chief (Engineer)
1 Senior Architect
1 Senior Engineer
1 Engineer
2 Draftsmen/overseers
2.        The 270 new and/or renovated buildings inzluded in the Project
consist of the following types:
a.   225 Health Posts (HPs: 125 new, 100 renovated)
b.   25 PHCs (5 new, 20 upgraded from HPs)
c.   5 FP/MCH Units
d.   7 Clinical Training Centers
e.   8 Warehouses (4 new, 4 renovated)
3.        Prototype drawings approved by HMG and IDA have been developed
along with outline specification and cost estimates for three types of Health
Posts (Terai/High Client Load, Hill/Medium Client Load, and Mountain/Low
Client Load) and two types of PHCs (upgraded and new).
4.        Final drawings, specifications, cost estimates and technical
conditions for tenders are being developed tor the five prototype buildings
for PHCs and HPs described above. This will enable to tender 150 (125 HPs and
25 PHCs) of the 270 buildings over the next six years with only site
adaptation drawings (compound walls, drainage, and planting) to be prepared
for each yearly tender. Tender packages for PHCs and HPs will be advertised
for commencement of construction from the first year of the Project; while
those for warehouses, FP/MCH Units, and Clinical Training Centers will be
advertised for the third and subsequent years of the Project, along with
preparation of corresponding final drawings and related documentation.
5.        All tendering will be LCB and will be advertised and issued by the
PIU. The Unit will also be responsible for opening and evaluating all
tenders.  Tendering will be done each spring, and will be in the form of
packages of a number of buildings (5-8) for each tender. T1--. number of
packages per year will vary, starting at about 5 in the first year and
increasing to about 12 in the third, fourth and fifth years. Detailed
schedules of infrastructure activities and implementation modalities are noted
in the Project Management Plans (Project File) and referred to in Annex 3.3.
As indicated there, major construction works are targetted to be completed by
Year 5, with Year 6 primarily devoted to following-up any unfinished
construction and renovation.



-63-
Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 2
6.        For earch package, consultants will be contracted by the PIU to
provide one full-time overseer at each site and one full-time engineer to
supervise progress of the package as well as the work of the overseers. This
procedure applies to all packages and all sites during the length of the
Project.  During the year the PIU will make surprise inspections at all qites.
7.        The full-time engineer for each package will be responsible for
obtaining As-Built drawing from the contractor for each building in the
package at the time of completion of the works.
8.        Since construction of each of these buildings will take about a
year, it will be possible to evaluate both contractors and consultants
following the completion of a package and decide whether they should be
considered for the following year's work.
9.   During subsequent visits, PIU staff and IDA Supervision Missions will
ascertain the level of utilization of the constructed and renovated
facilities, including availability of appropriate staffing and supplies.



-64-
Annex 3.11
NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
FIELD OPERATIONS SUPPORT
As shown on the Management Structure, the "Program Monitoring and
Supervision Section" has the responsibility to monitor the supervision and
outreach service delivery support.
.'hile monitoring this service delivery, it will administer the
disbursement of funds and reimbursing MOH for TA/DA expenses as incurred. All
regular HMG accounting and auditing procedures will be followed so as to
permit accountability in a purely financial sense. This Section will also set
up its own procedures to insure that the TA/DA reimbursements are exclusively
for client outreach and for field supervisory travel, and this will be done as
follows: (a) the MOH will prepare a schedule of estimated TA/DA needs by
quarter, in advance of the beginning of the quarter, and advances against such
travel can be made by the PIU to eliminate the long delays in reimbursing the
traveller which have plagued the system in the past; (b) a summary report
listing the persons and installations using such funds and also the date, time
and objective of the travel will be filed with the PIU by the MOH every
quarter; and (c) the staff of this Section will go to the field regularly to
make unannounced visits to installations using the funds, to inspect the
voucher files which they are supposed to maintain, and to observe the outcome
of such travel.



-65-
Annex 3.12
Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
POPULATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Tentative            Main                                                       Staff Weeks
Dates               Activity                        Specialty                   in field
FY 94
ril-May            Finalize Implementation        Task Manager                 12 wks
1994               Plans and Operations           Architect
Manual.                        Procurement Specialist
Review procurement             Logistics Specialist
procedures for retroactive    Management Specialist
financing.
July-August          Project Launch                  Task Manager
1994               Review plans for coming        Architect
years.                         Procurement Specialist       15 wks
Review monitoring              Logistics Specialist
and supervision.               Disbursement Specialist
Management Specialist
FP/MCH Physician
FY95
November 1994        Supervision Mission             Task Manager
Review sites for years         Architect
3-4.                           Procurement Specialist
Review starting of             Logistics Specialist         15 wks
construction and               FP/MCH Physician
procurement, and plans
for next year.
May 1995             Supervision Mission             Task Manager
Review construction            Architect
and procurement program.       Procurement Specialist       12 wks
Review logistics and           Logistics Specialist
MIS plans.                     MIS Specialist



-66-
Annex 3.12
Page 2 of 3
Tentative            Main                                                        Staff Weeks
Dates               Activity                       Specialty                   in field
FY96
November 1995        Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Review construction            Architect
completion.                    Procurement Specialist      15 wks
Review procurement             Logistics Specialist
progress, and plans            FP/MCH Physician
for remaining years.
Review plan for next year.
lay 1996            Supervision Mission            Task manager
Review construction and        Architect                   12 wks
procurement progress.          Procurement Specialist
Review monitoring              MIS Specialist
and supervision.
Financial report.
FY97
'ovember 1996       Supervision Mission             Task Manager
Review construction            Architect
completion and pro-            Procurment Specialist       15 wks
curement progress.             Logistics Specialist
Review plans for next          FP/MCH Physician
year.
Joint Midterm                  Task Manager
Review of Project              Architect
with HMG.                      Procurement                 12 wks
Logistics Specialist
MIS Specialist
lay 1997            Supervision Mission
Review sites for years 5-6
and plans for remaining
years.
Review MIS.
FY 98
November 1997        Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Review starting of             Architect
construction and               Procurement Specialist      15 wks
procurement and plans          FP/MCH Physician
for the next year.



-67-
Annex 3.12
Page 3 of 3
Tentative            Main                                                       Staff Weeks
Dates               Activity                       Secialt                     in field
May 1998             Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Review construction            Architect                   12 wks
and procurement                Procurement Specialist
program and plans for          MIS Specialist
next year.
November 1998        Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Review construction            Architect                   15 wks
and procurement, and           Procurement Specialist
plans for next year.           Logistics Specialist
FP/MCH Physician
May 1999             Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Review construction            Architect                   12 wks
and procurement                Procurement Specialist
program, and plans for         MIS Specialist
next year.
November 1999        Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Review of remaining            Architect                   15 wks
construction and               Procurement Specialist
procurement plans.             FP/MCH Physician
May 2000             Supervision Mission            Task Manager
Joint HMG-IDA                  Architect                   20 wks
Project Completion Review.    Procurement Specialist
Logistics Specialist
MIS Specialist
FP/MCH Physician



-68-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
POPULATION 7n^'D FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
1.   MOH (HMG), National Health Policy of His Majesty's Government of
Nepal, 1991.
2.   NPC (HMG), Population Policy and Program, presented to the
International Donors Conference, Kathmandu, March 1992.
3.   NPC (HMG), Eighth Five-Year Plan, Summary, Unofficial Translation,
July 1992.
4.   CBS (HMG), The Analysis of the 1991 Population Census, 1993.
5.   MOH (HMG), Nepal Fertility, Family Planning and Health Survey
(1991), 1993.
6.   MOP (HMG), Organization Structure of the Ministry of Health, July
1993.
7.   MOH (HMG), Financing Plan for FP/MCH Program, 1993.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   Special Reports prepared by consultants for the Preparation Mission
(July-August 1990).
2.   Reports of Seven Working Groups prepared for Pre-Appraisal anid
Appraisal Missions.
Phase I.   Situation Analysis (February 1991)
Phase II. Options for Interventions (April 1991)
Phase III. Resource and Management Implications for Project
Components (July 1991, November 1991)
3.   Re orts of JGF Operations Research for Project Preparation, October
1993.
4.   JGF Infrastructure Development Survey Report, October 1993.
5.   Technical Reports on Project Design and Phasing by national and
international consultants, February-October 1993.



-69-
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
C.   Working Papers
1.   IDA Technical Appraisal Mission:  Nepal - Population and Family
Health Project, July 1991.
Aide Memoire
Working Papers
Project Costs
Back-to-Office Report
Post-Mission Letter to the Government
2.   IDA Post-Appraisal Mission:  Nepal - Population and Family Health
Project, April 1992.
Aide Memoire
Working Papers
Project Costs
Back-to-Office Report
Post-Mission Letter to the Government
3.   IDA Pre-Negotiations Mission:  N epal - Population and Family
Health Project, September-October 1993.
Aide Memoire
Working Papers
Project Costs
Back-to-Office Report
Post-Mission Letter to the Government
4.   Other Documents
a.   Detailed Cost Tables for the Project
b.   Working Papers for all Project Costs
c.   Prototype Drawings for Health Facilities
d.   Outline Specifications and Preliminary Cost Estimates for
Prototypes
e.   Furniture and Equipment Lists
f.   TORs for PIU Members
g.   Project Management Plans
h.   List of Alterations required and estimated Costs for PIU
Office
i.   Proposed Project Items to be implemented through Retroactive
Financing
j.   Copy of Approved Changes in the Sample Bidding Documents:
Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts)



.  X  -l                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT|
3W    ~t                                                                                                                              PROPOSED SITES FOR HEALTH FACILITIES
>vsb sRCHUIA  i   <  t   rh      ,                                                        -  FRIMAtY btALIH CENTScS         t    DOMESVC IPAVEDM~~~~~~~~~~~EW EMT POTS  OMETIC(PAED
hi;q,S>  Tt}  t / V\9 * z HILLECC9CSCAIZCNE tCNELDUHDA91ES R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILLECLOC.1ZOE                                         ZNEBOUDAIE
Z   J>s  STE9tiS    t   >o) t    \   M  i D   --v   ~~~~~~~~~~~DOLPA  S                                              WM ECOLODCALIONE            D^ IEVNE)NLOMNREGONUNDARIES)
>;;l -- -'9 ,  ' -_ a ~ 
Wrrw  . si 9 GXDATER;                       M'JUAKID7\  UTN  
e ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                 KA.D VAUEY t                      NTERNATi'  i  A L/O MAANA X  E 
\_,@ h4  T __  zf McD Tv - '> 
..                9 ' a_ -   F < '   X   f    = k F   LM-                                                                                                                                   --r1 iE R 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4~~~~~o MKHN5H  } -z2  AAUXRA db Ut$OjD'KAr|et 
/Q/d~~~~~~S?IA                                            KAK
7he oourl~~~~~~~~~~~-. o olo_.
i=    IIIDUAO2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                MAlu  .                                      0E



