(-1'---   Z< (cC) (r>-
Documet of
The World Bank
FOR oMcLAL USE ONLY
Rqept No. P-6269-NEP
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 19.4 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
MARCH 18, 1994
lvi1 IhU'lcAI-J1XI,
Er ,F!,,L £E, ,'   I ,{. M7Il.
'lypde  M')L
This document has a restricted distributioc and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October 1993)
Currency Unit * Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
US$1.00 a NRa. 49.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
CPR       -    Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
EAP       -    Environmental Action Plan
EP        -    Eighth Five-Year Plan
ESAF      -    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FINNIDA   -    Finnish International Development Agency
FP/MCH    -    Family Planning and Maternal and Child Health
FY        -    Fiscal Year
GTZ       -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (Germany)
HM.G      -    His Majesty's Government
IDA       -    International Development Association
IEC       -    Information, Education and Communication
IFC       -    International Finance Corporation
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MIGA      -    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MCH       -    Maternal and Child Health
MOH       -    Ministry of Health
MIS       -    Management Information System
NGO       -    Non-Governmental Organization
O&M       -    Operations and Maintenance
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PE        -    Public Enterprise
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
PRM       -    Public Resource Management
SAC       -    Structural Adjustment Credit
TA/DA     -    Travelling Allowance/Daily Allowance
TFR       -    Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA     -    United Nations Population Fund
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



NEPAL                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POPULATION AMTD FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Contents
Page No.
Part  I.    COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ....                              1
Part  II.   SECTOR CONTEXT ...........................................    19
Background ...............................................                          19
Pending  Sector  Issues ....................................                        19
FP/MCH Program  Support ...................................    21
Part  III. THE PROJECT ..............................................    21
Project Objectives .......................................    21
Project Description ......................................    22
Project  Implementation ...................................    22
Project Sustainability ...................................    23
Lessons Learned  from Previous  IDA  Involvement ............    23
Rationale  for IDA  Involvement ......... ..................    24
Agreed Actions ...........................................    24
Environmental Aspects ....................................    24
Project Benefits .........................................    25
Risks ....................................................    25
Part  IV.   RECOMMENDATION ...........................................    25
Schedules:
Schedule A    Estimated Costs and Financing Plan ....................                             26
Schedule B    Amounts and Methods  of Procurement
Allocation and Disbursement of the Proposed
IDA Credit ............................................    27
Schedule C    Timetable  for Key Project Processing Events ...........                            29
Schedule D    The Status of Bank Operations  in Nepal
Statement of IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits ...............                        30
Schedule D    Statement of  IFC Investments  in Nepal .................                            31
Anr.exes:
Al                Selected  Indicators  of Portfolio  Performance
and Management ........................................                         32
A2                IBRD/IDA and IFC Lending  Program,  FY91-97
IFC and MIGA Program,  FY75-93 .........................    33
A3                Priority Poverty  Indicators
Resources and Expenditures ............................    35
A4                Key Economic  Indicators
Key Exposure  Indicators ...............................    37
MAP:              IBRD 25400  - Nepal  Population and Family Health Project    40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                     Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:                       SDR 19.4 million (US$26.7 million)
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:               Government of Nepal US$12.3 million
IDA                 US$26.7 million
Total         US$39.0 million
Economic Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Poverty Cateaorv:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:       No. 10812-NEP
MaR:                          IBRD No. 25400



MEMORAIDUM AND RECOMNBNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.         I submit for your approval the following memorandum and
recommendation on a proposed Development Credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for
SDR 19.4 million, the equivalent of US$26.7 million, on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 40 years to help finance the Population and Family Health
Project in Nepal.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Introduction
2.        Nepal's development experience reflects its unique geography and
history. Home of some of the world's highest mountains and mightiest rivers,
it is a land of striking beauty. But the country's economic growth has been
hampered by its remote land-locked location, rugged terrain, and limited
natural resources. Isolated from the rest of the world until 1951, Nepal
remained a pre-modern society ruled by hereditary prime ministers. The
subsequent forty years under the monarchy saw a substantial infusion of
foreign aid. While some economic growth occurred, the gains achieved were
largely eroded by the rising population. Poverty increased, and the fragile
environment was threatened. By the time the current democratic government was
elected in 1991, it was apparent that the preceding administrations had not
been successful in addressing critical human resource development issues and
in stemming the rising tide of poverty.
A. Recent Economic and Social Performance
3.        With a per capita income of US$180, Nepal is the seventh poorest
country in the world. The population of over 20 million is growing at 2.5%
per annum1 and is expected to double within 29 years. Social indicators are
well below the average for the South Asian region. Only about one-fourth of
all adults are literate, and the percentage for women is even lower. Nepal's
infant mortality rate of 101, child mortality rate of 197, and maternal
mortality rate of 8.3 per thousand live: births are among the highest in the
world. Agriculture accounts for over half of GDP, but over 80% of employment.
The absolute poor, who constitute almost half the population, are nearly all
engaged in agriculture and related rural activities. Nepal's long open border
with India, as well as its dependence on India for access to the sea, restrict
its economic policy options.
The Government bases its official figure on the 2.1% per annum increase in the total
population over the two census periods (1981-91), while IDA's estimate .orresponds
to the difference between the estimated crude birth and death rates in 1991.



-2-
4.        Following a period of macroeconomic instability, Nepal embarked on
a structural adjustment program in the mid-1980s. While stabilization was
achieved, structural reforms were limited. The emergence of a democratically
elected government in Nepal, the new government's commitment to economic
reform, and economic liberalization in India over the past two years have,
however, improved the prospects for economic reform in Nepal. The government
approved an Eighth Five Year Plan (EP), covering FY93-97, which seeks to
reduce poverty by accelerating labor-intensive growth from a long-term average
of about 3.5% to about 5% per annum. The EP commits the government to promote
the expansion of the private sector; make more efficient use of public
resources; and increase investments in human resources, power, and rural
infrastructure. An IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
arrargement and accompanying Policy Framework Paper (PFP) approved in October
1992 set similar goals. Discussions on the new PFP have been recently
completed, and a second-year ESAF arrangement is expected to be presented to
the IMF Board in mid-April 1994.
5.        Performance results thus far reveal a mixed picture.  Major
progress has been achieved in liberalizing trade and industrial policies,
unifying the exchange rate, and attaining full convertibility on the current
account. Significant progress was also made in privatizing public
enterprises, and expanding the role of the private sector in economic
activity, while initial steps were taken to streamline the civil service. The
current account deficit declined from 10.8% of GDP in FY91 to 8.6* in FY93;
and external reserves rosp to the equivalent of nine months' imports. The
inflation rate, which is losely related to that of India, decelerated sharply
from 21% in FY92--which reflected a major devaluation--to 9% in FY93. The
reform measures have also stimulated private investment, thus sustaining the
overall investment level at about 21% of GDP, despite a decline in public
investment.
6.        Notwithstanding the reforms, GDP growth fell from 4.6% in FY91 to
2.1% in FY92 and 2.9% in FY93, largely due to poor weather which seriously
undercut agriuultural performance. Economic growth, however, is expected to
recover to about 6% in FY94. Public savings fell as government revenues
stagnated, in part reflecting the succers of trade and industrial reforms
which nevertheless led to an erosion of the traditional revenue base. The
fiscal deficit rose to 12.2* of GDP in FY93, up from 9.2% in FY91. Regular
expenditures continued to increase from 7.7% of GDP in FY91 to 8.0% in FY93.
Domestic deficit financing continued to be significant at 2-3% of GDP, and
continued heavy dependence on borrowing by the government brought about new
budgetary pressures. The local resource financing of the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of completed investments remained inadequate. The rate of
aid utilization will also need to be improved, since the average disbursement
over the last three years (FY91-93) was 7.8% of GDP compared to 8.9% of GDP
for the previous three year period ending in FY90. Although development
expenditures increased, the public investment portfolio is still over-crowded;
the quality and implementation of projects do not appear to have i,Lproved. In
sum, good progress has been made in liberalization of the economy, with
particularly strong response on the external side with improv.ed exports and a
strengthened balance of payments position. The fiscal fundamentals, on the
other hand, remain weak with a continuing shortage of local funds together



-3-
with high fiscal deficits. This indicates clearly the importance of enhanced
domestic resource mobilization and improved fiscal and public resource
management. This in turn requires strengthening the very weak institutional
framework within which the new government operates.
B. External Environment
7.        Nepal's exports have increased in dollar terms at an annual. rate of
25% during the past two years and have more than doubled over the past three
years. Nevertheless, Nepal remains a minor participant in world trade,
accounting for less than 0.01% of global trade flows. Most of the increase in
exports has been carpets and garments to OECD countries. Since the total
volume is still very small, the scope for expansion in OECD markets is
considerable. Nepalese carpets already account for 25t of Germany's carpet
imports, but the potential for growth in other markets, including the U.S. and
Japan, is substantial. Similarly, there is room for some growth in garment
exports under the current quota system. Successful completion of a new GATT
agreement, however, underscores the need for Nepal to improve the quality of
its exports. Overall, Nepal's competitiveness in world markets will depend on
its ability to overcome constraints posed by the low level of human resource
and technological development and its limited infrastructure. Carpet exports
to Germany could be adversely affected by slow growth, market saturation,
and/or changing tastes in Germany. This suggests a need to diversify Nepal's
export manufacturing base, as well as the direction of trade.
8.        Historically, India has been Nepal's major trading partner.  The
rapid growth of carpet and garment exports to third countries has led to a
steep decline in India's share of Nepal's exports from an historical high of
62% in FY81 to only 9% in FY93. The share of imports from India has also
declined progressively from 48t in FY81 to a low of 25% in FY90 during the
trade and transit impasse with India. The subsequent restoration of normal
trading relations with India, combined with the depreciation of the Nepalese
rupee against hard currencies, caused the share of Nepal's imports from India
to rebound modestly to 36* in FY92 and 33% in FY93. Despite the reduced role
of India in trade, Nepal's economy remains closely linked to that of its
neighbor. Nepal's policies in regard to monetary affairs, external tariffs,
commodity pricing, and banking continue to be influenced significantly by
developments across the border.
9.        Tourism, which currently accounts for just over one-fifth of export
earnings, is sensitive to economic developments in both India and third
countries. For example, the recession in OECD countries has adversely
affected tourism earnings this year. A sharp increase in oil prices would
affect Nepal's petroleum import costs, though with a delay of about six
months, given the long-term trading agreements with India. More importantly,
Nepal's heavy dependence on foreign assistance to finance its development
budget makes it vulnerable to changes in the worldwide availability and
allocation of aid. To date, donors have been generous to Nepal, and there is
no immediate reason to expect any change. However, donors may be expected to
give increasing attention to progress on the agenda for policy and insti-
tutional reforms, and to the impact of measures to improve the effectiveness



-4-
of aid utilization, including project implementation performance, in
determining future aid levels for Nepal.
C. Nenal's DeveloPment Obiectives and Policies
10.        Given the widespread nature of poverty in Nepal, the government
seeks to alleviate poverty through a broad-based strategy which promotes
growth intensive in the use of labor, and builds on essential investments in
infrastructure, including rehabilitation and maintenance, and in human
resource development; the strategy also seeks to protect Nepal's natural
resource base, a valuable heritage.  To achieve this, Nepal will be looking
for increased agricultural production through crop intensification and
diversification, relying upon irrigation and expansion of horticulture and
livestock. Significant contributions will also be needed from tourism and
industry. In a break with the past, the Plan emphasizes decentralization of
government control, promotion of private enterprise, and cooperation with
NGOs. Emphasis is also placed on environmental preservation and slowing down
the rate of population growth. In particular, increased resources will be
provided by the government to the priority areas of human resource
development, energy sector, and investments in rural infrastructure to support
agricultural growth and rural income-generating activities.
11.       The government's Plan and its, development objectives are
commendable for their policy thrust and funding priorities. As in previous
Plans, however, there are risks that can lower the final Plan results -- for
example, slower than hoped-for private sector growth during the first half of
the Plan period, reduced availability of public resources as well as their
effective management, and implementation capacity constraints. In an effort
to enhance Nepal's development efforts, the donor community, including IDA and
the IMF, have been discussing these issues and their possible solutions with
the Nepalese Government.
12.       To implement this strategy, Nepal plans to focus on four key areas.
First, it will address public resource management issues; specifically, it
will emphasize tighter fiscal management and expenditure control as well as
continue reform of its public administration system to make the best use of
its limited resources. Second, it will provide additional incentives to the
private sector (which is already playing an important role in such areas as
carpet and garment exports, tourism, transport, and other manufacturing
sectors) to become more involved in generating the needed economic growth.
Third, human resource development can provide a resource-poor country like
Nepal the opportunity to overcome its natural constraints and begin to compete
more effectively with its Asian neighbors in the export market; therefore,
Nepal will actively develop this area. And fourth, it will pursue a
development path that is environmentally sustainable, to confront the
challenges posed by rapid population growth and widespread poverty.



D.  IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
13.         IDA's strategy for Nepal clearly recognizes poverty alleviation as
the overriding objective.2 The strategy for reducing poverty set out in the
1990 World Development Report is particularly applicable for resource-poor
Nepal. This approach consists of a broad-based, labor-intensive economic
growth to generate widespread income-earning opportunities for the poor, and
investment in basic social services such as health care, family planning,
nutrition, and primary education, and enhanced service delivery capabilities
in the rural areas. A noticeable improvement iL the living standard of the
poor will require an acceleration of economic growth from Nepal's historical
average of 3.5% p.a. to 4-5*. To achieve 5% p.a., for example, would require
the agricultural sector to increase from its previous 3W rate to about 3.5-4%
p.a., and other sectors to about 6% p.a. IDA's strategy to help the
government accomplish its poverty reduction objective will be undertaken in a
number of ways, including policy discussions by means of the PFP, economic and
sector work, lending operations, portfolio management and aid coordination.
This is set out in more detail in Table 2.
14.         To stimulate such increases, the government and IDA are currently
identifying a set of interventions that holds promise for accelerating
agricultural growth over the medium term. This initiative is being furthered
by the government's current work on an agricultural development plan,
supported by IDA and the ADB, which will take new approaches to raising
agricultural productivity. These interventions include significant expansion
of irrigated crop production, giving greater access and control to farmer
groups for design, implementation, and O&M of irrigation systems; increased
fertilizer supplies with greater private sector participation; more focussed
research and extension efforts; and greater access to rural infrastructure,
such as farm-to-market roads. In addition, Nepal will need to further develop
light manufacturing oriented toward niche markets in India and third
countries, as well as services, especially tourism, at the more upscale end of
the market. In this context, the development of Nepal's hydropower potential
is an important part of the strategy to accelerate growth. Such growth cannot
be achieved without a high and sustainable rate of industrial expansion, as
well as the expansion of the services sector, including tourism (para. 32).
15.       Growth and poverty reduction objectives can be furthered by
development of Nepal's human capital. Nepal's competitive edge in its low-
cost labor is blunted by its low skill levels as compared to its neighbors,
and its future growth will depend on its ability to reduce this human resource
gap. This calls for systematic improvements in basic social services --
including education and skills training.   Further investments in the social
sectors are also needed to reduce the population growth rate and to improve
the overall health level of its labor force. The government has set specific
goals for the year 2000 to improve Nepal's social indicators including:
attaining universal primary education as compared to the current enrollment
ratio of 86%, which is considered to be an overestimate; reducing the Total
2     IDA's poverty assessment on Nepal entitled Nepal: Poverty and Incomes (A World Bank
Country Study) was issued in April 1991.



-6-
Fertility Rate (TFR) from 5.8 to 4; and reducing the infant and maternal
mortality levels noted earlier (para. 3) by about 50%. However these targets
are considered by IDA to be relatively ambitious, given the current
institutional capacity constraints in the social sectors. We are worlking
closely with Nepal to address these constraints with a view to achieving
in primary education, for example, a 90% gross enrollment ratio by 2000.
Similarly we are supporting cost effective programs which aim to reduce TFR
and mortality rates significantly by the end of the decade. IDA's support in
this area will be to emphasize efficient implementation of the Basic and
Primary Education Project (Cr. 2357-NEP, FY92) and the proposed Population and
Family Health Project, while ensuring that adequate resources are provided to
the social sectors through our dialogue on public resource management and
planned economic and sector work. Our investment operations will reflect
IDA's emphasis on human resource development through future operations in
education, health, and water supply and sanitation.   Given the large number
of donors in this area in Nepal, we will be careful in defining our own role
and ensuring smooth coordination with other donors and the government.
16.       The government and IDA share a common view of Nepal's overall
development priorities and the strategic areas that need to be addressed
(paras. 10-12). To support Nepal in attaining these objectives, the key
elements in our assistance strategy include: (a) public resource management
reforms -- revenue, expenditure, and administrative -- to improve the
efficiency of investments and institutions; (b) improvement of the environment
for efficient private sector activity through trade and industrial reforms,
strengthening of the financial system, and gradual withdrawal of the public
sector from selected economic activities through, inter alia, privatization of
public enterprises; (c) implementation of effective population and human
resource development programs; and (d) environmental sustainability of its
growth and poverty reduction initiatives. The key elements are discussed
below.
Public Resource Management
17.       Many of the interrelated reasons for Nepal's poor performance in
economic development and poverty alleviation fall under the broad heading of
public resource management (PRM). They include weaknesses in revenue
mobilization, expenditure prioritization and control, aid utilization, project
design and implementation, and public administration and service delivery.
Some indication of the importance IDA gives to these issues in Nepal is seen
in the fact that the last three country economic reports have centered on PRM.
While some important steps have been taken to address these issues,
considerably more effort is needed to achieve the country's poverty reduction
objectives.
18.       Fiscal Management.  The government's efforts to improve fiscal
management and enhance the efficiency of public resources has had relatively
limited success thus far; the fiscal structure has remained weak.
Expenditures are over-extended, and Nepal's tax effort is low relative to its



-7-
potertial, as well as to comparable developing countries.3 Regular
expenditures equal to about 8.0% of GDP in FY93 are largely used for growing
debt service and employee compensation costs. External debt servIce is
manageable, at on'.y 11t of export earnings during FY90-92. Despite rising
regular expenditures, O&M is underfunded, und rmir.ing the productivity of
development investments. Public investment is spread too thin: there are too
many projects drawing upon too few local resources. This proliferation of
underfunded projects, combined with weak implementation capacity, results in
slow aid utilization. Aid absorption is estimated to have declined from an
average of 8.9% of C-DP in FY88-FY90 to 7.8t in FY91-93. Completed projects
generally show disappointing economic rates of return, and cost recovery is
low.
19.       The PFP commits the government to a major restructuring of the tax
and expenditure systems, as well as to a steady decline in domestic finarLcing
of the deficit with a view to its eventual elimination. Revenue measures
include expanding the income tax net, improving tax administration, and phased
introduction of a value-added tax, as well as ,rice increases and other
measures to increase cost recovery in the key public utilities. The PFP
further commits the government to restrain the recent trend in recurrent
expenditures by limiting wage increases to the rate of inflation, phasing out
transfers to public enterprises, and further reducing subsidies on food and
agricultural commodities. The government also intends to undertake a number
of structural reforms to improve budget planning and prioritize both donor-
supported and fully government-funded projects. Drawing upon a public
expenditure review carried out earlier this year, the government is preparing
a rolling three-year expenditure program and formulate an annual core
development program which will be pro-ected in the event of resource
shortfalls. An important purpose of tha core program will be to ensure that
major infrastructural investments such as the proposed Arun III Hydropower
project, do not displace priority spending on human reaource development
(paras. 31-33). IDA has had extensive discussions with the government
regarding the inter- and intra-sectoral expenditure tradeoffs which are needed
to advance its poverty alleviation goals, and these are discussed at length in
the latest economic report (para. 33).
20.       Public Administration.  Past exercises to reform Nepal's public
administration system have accomplished relatively little. While the new
government has stated that it intends to rely more on the private sector,
NGOs, and local authorities to carry out development activities and provide
social services, it recognizes that it also needs a more efficient civil
service to achieve those ends. The government introduced a number of measures
in 1991-92 to reduce over-staffing, restructure the civil service, and provide
performance incentives, and enhance productivity and motivation. In this
connection, IDA provided assistance, in cooperation with the Administrative
Reform Commission's Monitoring Committee, to prepare a civil service reform
action plan which was completed in 1993. For the first phase of the reform
Nepal's total military expenditures are not excessive: defense expenditures were
equivalent to 5.9W of central government expenditures in FY91, down from 6.7% in
FYB0. Nepal is ranked 108 out of 125 countries in order of military funding by the
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.



-8-
program in late 1992, the government announced the mandatory retirement of
some 3,500 civil servants (or about 3% of the administrative civil service),
covering all employees 58 years or older or with 30 years, service. A hiring
freeze was also introduced for non-technical staff in most government
departments. The government's reform effort also addresses systemic
weaknesses which undermine the incentives for productivity. quch efforts
include improving the efficiency of the public administration system through
restructuring of government agencies and revamping of performance evaluation
and promotion guidelines to emphasize efficiency and productivity factors,
while still holding the overall wage bill constant in real terms. Clearly,
the success of Nepal's development programs will depend on such personnel
reforms tu streamline administration and bolster field staff at the local
level.
Finance and Private Sector Develonment
21.       The current government's support for the private sector and its
determination to reduce state involvement in economic activity represents a
welcome departure from the past. Nepal has already adopted a number of
proactive measures to adjust its foreign exchange, trade, and industrial
policies. Thus tar the government has had considerable success with decisions
affecting trade, foreign exchange, and industrial policies. It has made less
progress in dismantling bureaucratic regulations and procedures and in
strengthening the financial system. The effort to rely more on the private
sector is also hampered by the small number and limited experience of domestic
entrepreneurs. Nepal's small market, high transport costs, and lack of
skilled labor are likely to discourage foreign investors. In this context,
IDA seeks to improve the preconditions for greater private sector involvement
wherever appropriate through its economic dialogue, as well as in its
operational work with sectoral ministries. Recognizing the new government's
interest in spurring the private sector's role, IFC has made its first
transaction in Nepal in over a decade (para. 51). Nepal's entry in MIGA in
February 1994 is a positive step in this direction.
22.       Trade and Industrial Policies.  Nepal abolished its dual exchange
rate in early 1993 and instituted full convertibility for all current account
transactions at a market determined rate. over the last two years, the import
licensing system has also been eliminated, and import tariffs have been
lowered significantly. While further rationalization of the tariff structure
is desirable, this needs to be coordinated with measures to strengthen the tax
system (see paras. 18-19) to compensate for the loss of tariff revenues.
23.       The government announced a new industrial policy in early 1992.
The new policy abolished investment licensing requirements, with certain
exceptions for "security, health, and environment" reasons. The policy seeks
to promote import-substituting and export-oriented industries, as well as to
achieve a number of other social and economic goals. For these purposes, it
includes special incentives to promote preferred industries. A subsequently
er.acted foreign investment and technology transfer act is designed to attract
foreign investment to sectors, including hydropower, where it was previously
discouraged. These reforms are a significant improvement over the previous
restrictive policies. However, the fiscal incentives such as tax holidays and



-9-
investment allowances create economic distortions and are not fiscally
sustainable. To enable potential foreign and domestic entrepreneurs to take
advantage of emerging market opportunities in India and third countries, the
government should reduce further its intervention in private investment
decisions.
24.       Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization.  Although Nepal has
never nationalized private firms, until the late 1980s it accorded high
priority to public enterprises (PEs) as instruments of production and agents
of socio-economic policy. The 62 PEs in utilities, transport, manufacturing,
trading, and finance have suffered from government intervention in pricing and
management, and lack of competition. The resulting over-staffing, poor
financial management, and operational inefficiencies have caused growing
losses which have been passed on to the government and state-owned financial
institutions. Concerned about this set of issues and influenced by the global
disenchantment with PEs, the current government has stated its intention to
privatize most of the public enterprises (viz., 51 out of 62) over the next
decade, restructure the 11 nonfinancial PEs to be retained by the government,
and relax state monopoly controls and administered prices. Three PEs were
privatized in 1992-93, with technical assistance from IDA financed by the
UNDP, and three more PEs have been divested and one liquidated thus far in
FY94. Nine additional PEs are expected to be sold or liquidated during 1994.
25.       A number of measures have been carried out to improve the
operational efficiency of those enterprises, mainly utilities, to be retained
in the public sector. More flexible pricing policies have been introduced and
prices adjusted. For example, electricity, petroleum, and water tariffs have
been raised, and subsidies have been eliminated for all types of fertilizer
other than urea. The scope for further reduction of subsidies on tradeable
commodities is limited by pricing policy across the border in India, but the
tariffs for electricity and water should be further adjusted to reach
appropriate commercially determined levels. The government is in the process
of restructuring several of the utilities and retre--hing excess labor. And
to further instill financial discipline, it has ceased guaranteeing commercial
credit to cover PE operational losses.
26.       The government has opened up to private investment a number of
sectors which had previously been public monopolies, including air transport,
electricity generation and distribution, and fertilizer import and
distribution. In addition, the EP emphasizes increased private participation
in such areas as health, education, tourism, agriculture, and irrigation.
Thus far, the private sector response in air transport and power generation
and distribution has been particularly encouraging.
27.       Financial Sector.  Two large state-owned commercial banks account
for about 70* of deposits and dominate Nepal's financial sector. Since the
late 1980s, a number of private joint-venture banks -- including six foreign
-- have been permitted to enter the market. These new banks have played a
useful role in financing local industries, including carpet and garment
exports, but have targeted the most profitable clients for their own
portfolio. Consequently, the presence of the private banks has had little



-10-
direct impact on the low efficiency of the state banks, and the financial
sector remains uncompetitive.
28.       IDA's second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC - FY89) supported
financial sector reforms. Following completion of a UNDP-financed study of
the state-owned banks, which confirmed that they were insolvent, the
government recapitalized the banks and instituted a number of reforms in
regulation and supervision. Nevertheless, a subsequent study in 1993 showed
that, as a result of continued weak management and lax lending and collection
practices, the condition of the banks had again deteriorated. The government
recognizes the critical need for a more comprehensive action program and has
therefore prepared specific restructuring proposals, including a timetable
beginning in mid-1994 to improve the management of these two state-owned banks
and to significantly enhance loan recovery. Steps are also being taken
towards the target of full privatization of both banks by 1997, the first of
which will be converted to majority private ownership during 1994. IDA has
expressed its willingness to provide additional advice to the government in
this area as part of our ongoing policy dialogue.
29.       EnerLv.  The main energy sources in Nepal are fuelwood (72%),
agricultural residues such as straw, husks (12%), dung (9%), and hydropower
(1%); the remainder are imported (6%). Fuelwood is the most important energy
source for cooking and heating in the rural areas, where 90% of the population
lives; however, this puts the country's forest resources on an unsustainable
track. There are no known oil or coal deposits of commercial value; thus all
fossil fuels are imported. Alternative energy sources such as biogass, solar,
and wind are being investigated, but their practical application on a large
scale has not yet been demonstrated. Conversion of existing water mills now
used for agricultural purposes may have considerable scope for micro-
hydropower schemes, which the government is promoting through policy and
credit incentives for the private sector.
30.       Nepal's hydropower potential is estimated at 25,000 megawatts (MW),
of which only 241 MW has been developed to date. Only 9% of the population
has access to electricity, and Nepal's per capita commercial energy
consumption is one of the lowest in the developing countries. Even so,
lengthy power blackouts already hurt manufacturing and services. Substantial
investments are needed to alleviate these shortages and facilitate private
sector growth in manufacturing -- including agro-industry -- tourism, and
other services in the medium-term. The cost of developing Nepal's ample
hydropower resources is high because of the difficult terrain and inadequate
road infrastructure. Power absorbed 20% of project aid in the mid-1970s and
24% in the 1980s. Power delivery is inefficient, and power tariffs have been
uneconomic. While the recent private sector interest in power generation such
as the 60 MW Khimti Khola hydropower project is encouraging, it is highly
unlikely that this alone could be sufficient to meet Nepal's energy needs.
For the longer term, power exports to India could provide a major source of
export earnings.
31.       IDA has historically been the lead donor in power generation and
sector planning, while the ADB has been more active in power distribution.
With cofinancing from a number of donors, IDA has financed two large



-11-
hydroelectric projects, Kulekhani (Cr. 600-NEP - FY76, Cr. 600-1-NEP - FY79,
totalling US$40.8 million) and Marsyangdi (Cr. 1478-NEP - FY84, US$107
million). The latter project was commissioned six months earlier than its
scheduled date and cost considerably less than had been budgeted, despite the
problems associated with the transit dispute with India during the
construction period. A least-cost generation expansion plan for the Nepal
grid completed in the mid-eighties, and updated since then, concluded that the
Arun III Hydropower project would be the rational choice in the sequencing
of investments to meet Nepal's medium-term energy needs. Since the late
1980s, IDA, the ADB, and the German and Japanese governments have worked
closely with two successive Nepalese governments in preparing and appraising
the Arun project. Foreign financing from some ten donors was identified
initially at a meeting in Paris in May 1988 and confirmed at another meeting
in February 1993. Although Arun has been designed and appraised as a project
for domestic consumption, a small portion of its production could be exported
to India under an existing power exchange agreement. Such exports would set a
precedent for future cooperation on a much larger scale.
32.       The Arun project is important for the government's growth and
development objectives. At present, power shortages and frequent load
shedaing stand in the way of the desired effects of liberalization policies on
private investments. With expected agricultural growth at around 3.5% with
industry being one of the leading sources of growth -- about 6-7% in recent
years -- Nepal's accelerated growth objective requires a sustained high rate
of industrial expansion, which would be difficult in an environment of
persistent electricity shortages. In addition, expansion of the increasingly
important tourism sector requires a reliable and increased supply of power.
In addition, if the Arun project is managed successfully, the increased supply
of power, coupled with life line tariff rates for low income groups, would
relieve pressure on fuelwood and on forest resources which, in turn, should
benefit other activities such as cropping and livestock.
33.       Because the Arun project is very large relative to Nepal's
development budget, it has raised concerns whether its large financing claims
might divert resources from other priority investments. The most recent Bank
economic report on Nepal has concluded that, provided Nepal continues to make
progress in its domestic resource mobilization and project prioritization
efforts, expenditures on the Arun project will not crowd out key expenditures
in other important areas, such as social sectors and rural infrastructure .5
The technical, construction, and environmental risks have also been analyzed
in depth and are considered manageable, given careful attention to
implementation. Another set of concerns related to the Arun project has to do
with project sequencing, whereby the first approach involves a large project
and a series of medium-sized plants, while the second approach entails a
series of smaller plants followed by a large investment. On balance, there
are many positive aspects to recommend either approach -- but the economics of
The name indicates that it is one of three sites on the Arun River.
The Country Economic Memorandum is "Nepal - Fiscal Restructuring and Public Resource
Management in the Nineties"(Report No. 12281-NEP dated March 17, 1994).



-12-
the first approach are marginally better. The decision to proceed with the
Arun project, i.e. the first approach, rests upon the government's judgment,
supported by the donors, that it is at a higher state of readiness than the
alternative approach, places Nepal in a position in the future to enter the
export market in a major way, and is no more difficult to manage in terms of
the overall coordination/construction management work.
Human Resource Development
34.       Despite some modest gains, the social indicators for Nepal reveal a
profile of widespread poverty, exacerbated by its rapid population growth. At
the same time, the absence of an educated and adequately trained labor force
is proving to be a severe impediment to Nepal's ability to compete with its
neighbors in the export markets, despite its low wages. IDA's strategy is to
follow closely the implementation of recently-approved projects in education,
while formulating future interventions so as to expand the access of other
social services to men and women, in both rural and urban areas.
35.       Ponulation and Health.  The history of Nepal's population efforts
is instructive. Started in the early 1970s, the government's program was
soundly conceived and comprehensive. However, it was poorly implemented; and
access to family planning services was limited and irregular. Nepal's
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (CPR) is only slightly above 20%. Over time,
the program developed into a vertical system to deliver family planning, with
relative neglect of maternal and child health (MCH) services. Sterilization
was emphasized, at the expense of temporary methods of contraception with
greater appeal to younger couples. By the late 1980s, the program had lost
momentum.
36.       Under the current government, there appears to be a new sense of
purpose, and cooperation among the interested parties has improved. There is
now a consensus that family planning should offer a broader mix of
contraceptive methods and be part of an integrated approach to primary health
care. With support from IDA and in close consultation with all donors, the
government has analyzed the cost-effectiveness of various activities within
the sector and has put together a comprehensive population and family health
program for external donor support. The focus of the program is on
institutional reforms and capacity building. Within this framework, the
proposed Population and Family Health project will fund critical components of
the program. In addition, IDA's macroeconomic dialogue with the government
has had, as a principal objective, the protection of budget funds for
population and health, as well as for primary education, in the context of
sound fiscal management (see paras. 18-19). IDA will view the government's
support for implementation of the population and family health program as an
important indicator of its commitment to poverty alleviation.
37.       Education.  Efforts in recent years to expand primary education
have led to some improvement in the gross enrollment rate. But high dropout
and repetition rates result in a primary school completion rate of just 35*;
and it takes on average about 12 student-years to produce one Grade 5
graduate. There are also wide variations in access and retention according to
family income, gender, and location. The government's basic and primary



-13-
education program, which IDA helped prepare, seeks to improve the efficiency
and equity of the existing system. Supported by a number of donors and an IDA
credit approved in FY92, the program includes cl.rriculum reforms, improved
instructional materials, and teacher training and supervision; renovation and
construction of schools; institutional development; and measures to increase
female participation. The IDA-funded Higher Education project approved
earlier this fiscal year will attempt to reverse the declining quality and
efficiency of the national university through improvements in its admissions
policy, administration, financing -- including cost recovery, and management.
In so doing, it will reduce pressures upon the government to divert funds from
primary and secondary education to the more expensive university.
Environmentallv Sustainable Development
38.       Environmental Management.  Approved in mid-1993 by the National
Environment Protection Council under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister,
Nepal's Environmental Action Plan (EAP) starts from the premise that the
problems of poverty, natural resource management, and human health are
integrally related. An underlying theme of the EAP is the need to involve the
users of natural resources -- including land, water, and forests -- more
directly in ownership and management. A complementary emphasis is the
importance of upgrading human health through improved water and sanitation, as
well as through education. The report fully recognizes that the high
population growth rate is at the root of many of Nepal's environmental
problems. Nepal's prompt adoption of an EAP reflects the leadership of the
National Planning Commission (NPC). It assembled a task force of
knowledgeable Nepalese from inside and outside the government to prepare the
EAP, with appropriate support from IDA. A draft was discussed in the Spring
of 1993 at a conference attended by representatives of the academic, private
sector, NGO, and donor communities, prior to clearance by the concerned
government ministries. An important conclusion of the EAP is that existing
institutions, particularly the sector ministries, should have the primary
responsibility for implementation. IDA will respond to the recommendation of
the EAP through its work with these ministries, as well as through its
assistance in public administration (see para. 20) and in its continuing
dialogue with NPC.
39.       Acrriculture and Forestry.  Agricultural statistics in Nepal are
unreliable, but average crop yields are generally acknowledged to be low.
There is also widespread agreement that irrigation and agricultural research
and extension programs, including some financed by IDA, have performed below
expectations and that input supply schemes have failed to produce the desired
results. Excessive government involvement in designing and implementing
investments, operating irrigation schemes, supplying inputs to farmers, and
controlling prices have contributed to the slow growth of agriculture and
hence for the growing rural poverty. In the past, the lack of a clearly
articulated agricultural strategy and overall vision has also been an
important constraint on accelerating agricultural growth; this is now being
addressed by the government through the preparation of its new agricultural
development plan (para. 14). The current government and the donors agree that
increased agricultural productivity is essential to raise rural income levels.
Soil fertility and crop yields can be improved through timely use of inputs



-14-
and research, and through expanded farmer-managed irrigation. The government
has introduced new initiatives in irrigation and extension, with the objective
of being more responsive to or giving control to the farmer, but these have
not yet been fully implemented. Reforms in fertilizer marketing and forestry
have been underway for some time, and changes in structure and personnel have
been effected in some key agricultural departments, but an integrated strategy
has not yet emerged. A study on which the government, the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), and IDA are collaborating is developing a strategy to increase
agricultural productivity in irrigated and rain-fed areas, as well as to
exploit opportunities for crop diversification and export. Once the strategy
is clear, IDA will provide additional support.
40.       The ongoing IDA-financed Hill Community Forestry Development
project is the government's main vehicle for implementing a forestry
management policy which features greater reliance on local communities. Slow
project implementation reflects the difficulty of changing the behavior of
government institutions, especially at the local level. A project under
preparation for IDA financing includes elements aimed at protection of the
vulnerable remaining forests in the Terai and fragile Siwalik hills in the
southern part of the country.
41.       Nepal's EAP emphasizes the need for integrated management of
natural resources, especially in watershed areas. A number of projects
sponsored by NGOs have had encouragiI,j results through involvement of the
local community in renewable use of local resources. Such projects attempt to
balance the complex requirements of soil conservation, agriculture, forestry,
livestock, energy, and biodiversity. Building upon the experience of the
Annapurna conservation project and other local models, an international NGO
has prepared a project to protect the area between the proposed Arun III
Hydropower project (see para. 29) and Mt. Sagarmatha National Park, the area
surrounding Mount Everest.
42.       Transportation. Water, and Urban Development.  Considering that the
first road into the country was not built until the 1950s, Nepal has wade
considerable progress in expanding its road network. However, adver'e
geographical and weather conditions combined with poor maintenance have caused
serious deterioration. Today, at least three-quarters of the existing road
network receives substandard maintenance, contributing to high vehicle
operating costs. In the past, donors invested heavily in road construction,
but were reluctant to finance O&M -- although some rehabilitation has been
financed over the last few years. More recently, under IDA's leadership, the
government has agreed with the donors to fund maintenance as a priority over
new construction. Drawing upon IDA studies of O&M needs and expenditures in
the road sector, the government has prepared a maintenance and rehabilitation
program which comprises policy reforms, institutional development, and new
approaches to funding and implementation. This program will be supported by a
recently approved IDA Credit for Road Maintenance, as well as by the UNDP and
the U.K. and Swiss governments.
43.       Rural infrastructure construction involves special challenges in
Nepal. There is considerable evidence that: (a) access to agricultural
markets and inputs is an important factor in increasing rural incomes, and (b)



-15-
safe drinking water and sanitation is the first priority in improving health
conditions. At the same time, the track record of rural road and water supply
projects in Nepal is not encouraging. Too often, the projects have been
poorly maintained and have had low economic rates of return. In recent years,
IDA has evaluated experience in the sector. IDA completed in FY93 a study of
water supply and sanitation issues, which is being followed up with
preparation of a project building on the lessons of past experience. Of
particular interest is the work of NGOs in involving the beneficiaries in
design, implementation, and maintenance. An IDA study of the location of
infrastructure has recently been discussed with the government. In addition,
the Road Maintenance project includes a pilot feeder roads component which
will be implemented by an international NGO.
44.       The recent dramatic increase in air and water pollution in
Kathmandu has alerted officials to Nepal's growing urban environmental
problems. Besides affecting the health of residents, this growing pollution
is likely to tarnish Nepal's image as a tourist attraction. Efforts to
address the problem have thus far been thwarted by the weak administrative
apparatus, with its overlapping jurisdictions and ineffective institutions.
The ongoing IDA-supported Municipal Development Project is testing different
approaches to providing infrastructure and municipal services through the
towns themselves, while the UNDP/IDA-supported Metropolitan Environmental
Improvement Project is focusing on these management aspects of urban
environmental protection in the Kathmandu Valley. Similar issues are also
being examined in an IDA urban sector study.
Portfolio Implementation
45.       IDA's portfolio in Nepal reflects the pervasive public resource
management (PRM) and sectoral problems discussed above.  As of December 31,
1993, IDA was disbursing against 24 operations, with a total commitment value
of US$786 million. This decline from 31 operations in 1991 reflects a
deliberate attempt to apply more rigorous standards to project closures and
cancellations, and to defer new lending operations pending resolution of
systemic implementation problems. Of the total commitments, the undisbursed
balance is about US$480 million. Nepal's disbursement performance has been
poor historically, with an average disbursement ratio for FY90-FY92 of 11t
compared to IDA's standard disbursement profile of 15% for Nepal. While the
disbursement ratio, which was 8.5% in FY91, has improved slightly to 9.5% in
FY93 and an annualized 13.5% thus far in FY94, no significant increase is
expected in the near term in view of the continuing absorptive capacity
problems discussed above.
46.       Since June 1993, there has been no significant change in the
overall status rating (Table 1), although the rating on development c~bjectives
has declined. The percentage of problem projects has decreased fro.n ten
projects or 36* in FY93 to seven projects or 29%. Notwithstanding :DA's
expenditure of considerable supervision resources, only limited progress has
been made in resolving the chronic problems affecting project implementation.
Detailed project reviews and a well focused Country Portfolio Performa.nce
Review (CPPR) in April 1993 led to agreement on a number of project
closings/cancellations. However, the results of these actions have been



-16-
offset by the one-time downgrading of other operations to better reflect the
lack of achievement of development objectives. The agriculture portfolio --
particularly irrigation operations -- continues to be the weakest sector, with
three problem projects.
47.       Since most of the
problems are grounded in                   Table 1: Implementation Indicators
the weak institutions and                 ______
financial management, IDA                           FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
is addressing them through       Overatt portfoLio  2.27   2.23   2.29   2.27
the work in fiscal               rating a/
management and public
administration described         Numberof projects   30    27    28    24
earlier.  Of particular          ProbLem Projects    40    30    36    30
importance is the               (percent)
prioritization of the            Supervision staff-  14.2   11.5   15.7   15.8
investment program to            weeks per project
discard wasteful projects        Disbursements (ON)  47.2   59.3   73.1   74.0
and provide adequate funds       (of whiu ch       (6.4)  (7.9)  (14.1)    (0)
for those retained (para.        adjustment)
17). IDA's next CPPR,            a/ On the basis of 1 to 4 rating scale, in
scheduled for October 1994,        which 4 is the worst and 1 is the best.
will emphasize these PRM
issues. While IDA is
prepared to assist the government in its public administration reform efforts,
it is also pressing for more limited improvements. One example is the recent
decision to augment the daily travel allowance for field staff so that health
workers and other officials will be compensated for the actual cost of travel
and subsistence for rural service delivery.
48.       While the greatest contribution to improved portfolio performance
will depend upon strengthened public resource management and institutional
capacity, IDA's supervision strategy will also: (a) emphasize the improvement
of the quality of new lending operations admitted into the portfolio; (b)
develop sectoral supervision strategies; (c) use specialist local staff in our
Resident Mission whose skills mix have been restructured to give greater
emphasis to portfolio management; and (d) increase our efforts to restructure
and/or terminate problem projects.
Level and Comiposition of IDA Assistance
49.       IDA anticipates an average annual level of new commitments of about
US$140-US$175 million over the FY94-FY97 period. Provided the government
takes adequate steps to implement a revised agricultural strategy now under
formulation, this sector could receive substantial support from IDA. Support
for rural infrastructure is also planned, as well as follow-up to the ongoing
projects in education and health. While the planned allocation among sectors
resembles that of past years, the focus within sectors is quite different as
discussed above; and this year marks IDA's first entry into population and
health. Our plans for future economic and sector work, with emphasis on the
agricultural and social sectors, should provide additional inputs to enable



-17-
both the government and IDA to better understand the needs within these
sectors.
50.       If Nepal's performance should decline during the FY95-FY97 period
in terms of maintaining round macroeconomic policies, pursuing effective
measures to improve public resource management (including expenditure
prioritization and revenue mobilization), strengthening project implement-
ation, reducing further the government's role through privatization, and
increasing the effectiveness of population and human resource development
programs, such an outcome would trigger a reduction in new commitments to a
level as low as US$70-80 million per year. In such an unlikely event, we
would expect to focus on a few limited operations linked to human capital
formation and basic infrastructural development.
IFC and MIGA Activities
51.       IFC's past involvement in Nepal has been very limited, a reflection
of the inhospitable environment for private investment. Up until 1993, IFC
had made two investments, the Soaltee Hotel (FY75) and the Orind Magnesite
mining project (FY80). Since the change of government, IFC has approved an
additional small equity investment and loan for the expansion of the Soaltee
Hotel (FY93), and it is exploring possibilities in other sectors, as well as
ways in which Nepal could further promote the development of its private
sector (para. 21). IFC's gross loans and equity investments have totalled
about US$8.9 million to date. IFC is currently considering a major investment
in the proposed 60 MW Khimti Khola Hydropower project, which would attract
other foreign investors and would be the largest private sector project in
Nepal to date. Nepal has recently joined MIGA.
Cooperation with Other Institutions
52.       IDA and the IMF have coordinated on country dialogue and financing
particularly closely since the mid-1980s when Nepal encourtered macro-
stabilization problems and commenced an adjustment program. Fund and IDA
staff have collaborated in preparation and supervision of IDA's two SACs (FY87
and FY89) and five PFPs, followed by the ongoing ESAF. With respect to
broader coordination among donors in the past, bilateral and multilateral
donors often tended to compete with and/or overlap with one another, in part
because of the lack of effective leadership from the government. In recent
years, however, the donors have looked to IDA to provide a macroeconomic and
sectoral framework for their assistance. IDA has devoted a great deal of
attention to donor coordination, both through its leadership of the Paris Aid
Group which meets about every 18 months, and through the Local Aid Group which
IDA co-chairs with the UNDP. At the last Paris Aid Group meeting, the donors
pledged about US$445 million for FY93. The next meeting will be in April
1994. In the future, we intend to use the Local Aid Group forum to assist the
government in deepening the understanding of the respective roles of the key
donors in Nepal.
53.       IDA's relationship with the ADB and UNDP is particularly important
in view of their prominence in Nepal. The ADB's annual lending is
approximately equal to that of IDA's. Cooperation with the ADB is good. The



-18-
UNDP with a grant program of over US$75 million for 1992-96, is the main
source of Nepal's technical assistance support and has made a notable
contribution to meeting the technical assistance requirements of IDA projects.
Agenda for Board Consideration
54.       The current government has main:ained macroeconomic stability,
albeit still somewhat fragile, and issued an Eighth Five-Year Plan (EP) which
identifies appropriate priorities to reduce poverty over the medium term. The
Plan calls for greater reliance on the private sector for most economic
activity, reinforce-d by government investments in human resources,
infrastructure -- especially in rural areas -- and energy.  The government has
so far introduced a number of measures to liberalize the trade and investment
regime. Partly as a result of these reforms, rising exports and growing
tourist earnings have contributed to a strong balance-of-payments position.
Nevertheless, the situation needs to be monitored carefully to ensure that any
remaining impediments to increased private sector activity are gradually
eliminated. The government recognizes the importance of investments in human
capital, both to upgrade the labor force and to improve living standards
directly. To this end, the government will need to ensure that adequate
resources will be provided for those activities that can help the rural poor,
who constitute the majority of the poor in Nepal, to gain some tangible
improvement in their lives. While foreign aid remains plentiful, the current
absorptive capacity is hampered by weak institutions and a shortage of local
resources. A number of able officials have been appointed to key positions,
but the initial phase of the civil service reform will need to be deepened,
and extended to the district-level, if such reform efforts are to address the
systemic weaknesses within the Nepalese bureaucracy.
55.       IDA's dialogue with the government has focused on the need for a
substantial improvement in public resource management (PRM), particularly on
fiscal management. Achievement of this goal is possible, but it will take a
recommitment of the government to fundamental reform. IDA will work closely
with the government and the other donors to reinforce its renewed efforts.
The outcome will determine the future level of IDA's assistance. First, IDA
will evaluate performance in meeting overall macroeconomic goals as set out in
the PFP. The most important indicator will be PRM, where IDA will look for
control of recurrent expenditures, prioritization of the development budget,
increased revenues, and improvements in public administration. Nepal has
positioned itself at this time in macro-economic terms to be able to absorb
the planned Arun hydropower program. However, it will need to be able to
sustain the progress it has demonstrated to date in managing such an ambitious
investment program (para. 33). Second, IDA will evaluate the government's
follow-up to earlier announced reforms to improve the environment for private
economic activity. Third, as an indication of the government's commitment to
poverty alleviation, IDA will weigh efforts to protect budget allocations for
primary education, family health and population, and O&M, as well as to
implement key projects such as the Population and Family Health Project.
Although the results from its family planning efforts will naturally take some
time, Nepal's own recent experience makes it clear that a strong
implementation start, underpinned by firm top-level support, can generate the
needed momentum to make significant progress (paras. 35-36). Fourth, IDA will



-19-
look for improvements in project implementation, including efforts to overcor,e
systemic constraints and restructure or cancel problem projects. Fifth, IDA
will assess the government's follow-up to its Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
and progress towards addressing issues of environmental concern at the sectoi
and project level. The performance indicators are set out in the matrix in
Table 2.
PART II. SECTOR CONTEXT
56.       Background.  As highlighted in Part I of this document, slowing
down the rate of population growth and improvement of maternal and child
health conditions would represent a key intervention for poverty alleviation,
sustainable environment, and other development goals for Nepal. Specific
components of such an intervention -- reductions in the level of fertility,
mortality, and morbidity -- would prove beneficial both at the macro level of
the nation by way of mitigating the endemic problems of development, and at
the micro level of the family, by providing better prospects for the household
economy, along with improved child and maternal health, as well as safe
motherhood. The attainment of these goals has so far proved formidable in
view of the rudimentary health service delivery in most parts of the country,
the limited access of the population even to the inadequate facilities
available, and the constrained institutional, personnel, and financial
resources in the population and health sector.
57.       This is the overall sector context against which one has to assess
the past and prospective FP/MCH (Family Planning and Maternal and Child
Health) program of the country. Despite over two decades of official family
planning programs, the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) remains around 20-
23% of the currently married women, and the total fertility rate (TFR: number
of children per woman expected during the entire reproductive period) is
estimated to be nearly 6. The current level of CPR is much lower than the
rate required for a significant impact on population growth -- a CPR of 40% by
the end of the century to bring down the population growth rate to 2% per
year, and a CPR of 60% needed for the population to begin to stabilize. These
latter figures are considerably higher than the Government's CPR goal of 33%
set for the year 2000, which itself is ambitious in terms of current
programmatic efforts, but should be achievable if the goal is backed by
appropriate levels of institutional, financial, and personne± resources. The
same would be true for the MCH goals.
58.       Pending Sector Issues.  A number of key issues have long plagued
the implementation of FP/MCH service delivery in the country, but their
resolution has proved to be extremely slow as a result of various systemic
problems as well as ad hoc and segmented approaches taken to address them.
Some of the outstanding problems are: lack of perceived priority and
accountability for FP/MCH services; inadequate integration of the previously
vertical and "crash" programs in various fields, including FP/MCH; inadequate
resource allocation to FP/MCH; lack of effective mechanisms for inter-
ministerial, as well as HMG-Donor, coordination in support of a comprehensive
FP/MCH program; inadequate outreach and clinical service providers,
particularly female workers, as well as managerial staff; inadequate travel



Table 2: Goals and Means to Implement Country Assistance Strategy (FY95-FY97)
Strengthen macroeconomic                      Enhance public institutional                        Improve                        Address poverty alleviation through       Strengthen Environmental awareness
stability and Improve public                     capacity and increase                      project implementation                 growth, population control and                   and its management
resoturce management                            private sector role                                                             effective social sector programs
Policy Dialogue
Adhere to the fiscal framcwork agreed to with    Aid Group Mecting (Paris)in 1994 will      In addition to the 1994 CPPR meeting.       Attain greaser consensus on need to curb   Consult with Nepal's Environment
IMF and IDA in p 9rJ93. Prepare a core program of    include discussions on institutional    discusions on civil YrViCe reform (through    population growth, whil spurring eco-  Protection Council tEPC) and key agcncit s
high prioriny projecs9.  eaphasizing socal sectors,  developmem in pubdic setor.           ESW) and next CEM also emphasize           nomic growth (especially agriculturr ) and    on follow-up lo the Environkental Action
(area), power and rural infrastructure, and under-                                          implementation issues.                      extending the coverage of essential social  Plan (EAP).
take to protect core projects in event of resource                                                                                      services and education opportunities for
shortfall.                                                                                                                              wonxen and the poor.
ESW
Policy Framework Papcr (PFP) FY93. FY94 and      CEM FY94. Follow-up to Civil Service        Next CEM emphasis also on                  Emphasize poveny allocation issues         Nepal - Water Sector Issues FY95: Urban
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)   Reform Action Plan (FY93) prepared with    improving fund release mechanisms. Next    flagged in povcrty report (FY91), CEM       Sector Issues. Government's EAP.
FY93. FY94 with IMF. CEM FY94 focuses on         Government relating to restructuring        steps to Civil Service Reform Action Plan  (FY94). and Selected Issues in Agricultural
fiscal management issues.                        agencies, civil service census, strengthen-  stresing constraints to implementation.   Sector (FY95).
ing government's capacity to monitor       Infrastructure Development Report (FY94)
performance as well as so implement.       addresses weak implementation capacity of
water supply authorities.
New Lending
Future investment operations will be designed to  Arun lIli-FY94; Road Maintenance-FY94;    In projec design of new operaticnas.        Population and Health-FY94; Rural Water    Arun III-FY94; Forestry IV-FY95, Rural
help srengthen public resource management in the    Rural WateT and Sanitation-FY96; Forestry    factoring implementation constraints at  and Sanitation-FY96; Irrigation Sector-  Water and Sanitation-FY96; Xathmandu
sector by a careful rcview and agreement of the   IV-FY95; Irrigation Sector-FY96; Sunsari    entry point, ensuring ownership, and      FY96: Agriculture Exension 111-FY96;       Environmental Improvement Project-FY96;  ts
pertinent sectoral imvcstment program and         Morang III-FY97: Gcneral Health-FY97.      encouraging local participation in design.  Rural tnfrastruature-FY97.                Agriculturc Exiension llt-FY96.O
necessary measures (i.e., cost recovery).                                                    Good examples are: Hig;.er Education
(FY94), Road Maintenance (FY94). and
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (FY96).
Portfolio Management
Review lessons from SAL I and SAL 11 and apply   Through on-going investment operations,    Apply more rigoruous suandards to project    Supervision of Basic and Primary          Supervision of Hill Community Forestry
to on-going and future operations.                focus on discrcte measures that can        restructuring, closures and cancellations,  Education Project, and Mahakali Irrigation  Development Project must reassess scopc
improve institutional capacity - e.g., Forest   and defer new credits in areas with   11, Sunsari Morang II. and Narayant        of project. especially vis-a-vis transfer of
Department. Irrigation Department,         systematic implementation problems.        Irrigation Ill Projects to enable irrigation  forest to management by local
Institutc of Engineering (Tribhuvan Uni-                                              credits to be provided to                  communities. Lessons Icarned fiom this to
versify).                                                                             farmer groups more effectivcly. and sup-   be incorporated itito proposed Forcstrv IV
ported by necessary TA.                    project which will covcr Terai atid Sam alit
I    ___________________________________________ _  _____________________________________________  areas.
Donor Coordination
Discussions during Aid Group Meeting (April      Local donors meeting convened for          Discussions during next Aid Group          Build on locally organized donor groups to    Consultations with donors. NGOs and
1994) and local consultativc group mnietings orga-  discussing civil service reform (FY93):  Meeting for Nepal on slow rate of projtai    coordinate on poverty, populationi. and  Govcrnmcnt on follow-up steps to Nepil's
wized by IDA's Resident Representative: meetings    more planned. Coordinating wNeit USAID  impcrmentation and aid utilization.        soial sector dcvelopmeni with NDpales       EAP. Work closely itnth UNDP Eon
with co-financicrs of Arun   etl, iparticularlya   which Is espel ally acive in Nepal on    Increamed riance on Resident Miza ion to   NGOss  Work closely with UNDP.              MEaropoWioan Environmental mprovenNcP n
regarding macroeconomic                          increasing private sector role.            coordinate donor efforts.                                                             Program (MEIP) as well as other bilateral
conditionalities                                                                                                                                                                  ag.ncites



-21-
(T/A) and daily (D/A) allowances for field staff and their supervisors;
overemphasis on sterilization and neglect of temporary and spacing methods of
family planning; lack of quality of care in FP/MCH; the absence of a
functioning MIS for FP/MCH; and inadequate infrastructure facilities, their
suboptimal utilization, and poor maintenance of the buildings and equipment.
Resolution of these problems would require appropriate financial resources as
well as skilled personnel to ensure year-round provision of quality services
at both outreach and static facilities.
59.       The present Government has demonstrated encouraging signs of
awareness of the population and development nexus, and in 1991, announced a
new population policy, in conjunction with a new health policy. These have
been incorporated in the country's Eighth Five-Year Plan (EP: 1992-97).
Major components in HMG's current and prospective FP/MCH Program consist of
outreach service delivery, clinical services, logistics and supplies, and
institutional development.
60.       FP/MCH Program Support.  The incremental resource requirement for
the Ministry of Health (MOH) has been stipulated as Rs.5.5 billion (US$127
million) in the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1992-97). This represents 4.8% of the
total EP budget outlay. Including direct funding of certain components by
some donors, the figure is estimated to be Rs.7.5 billion (US$174 million) in
HMG's Financing Plan. This level of resource allocation should be adequate to
cover the Government's total FP/MCH Program at an estimated cost of Rs.6.2
billion (US$127 million)6 for six years (FY95-2000), corresponding to the
proposed Project period.  The existing donors -- primarily UNFPA and USAID --
will continue to provide funding for contraceptives, with supplementary
support from FINNIDA, a new donor in the sector. KfW, another new donor, will
be supplying essential drugs, along with UNICEF, which will also support EPI
vaccines. Most of the resources for training, IEC, and MIS will be coming
from UNFPA and USAID, while HMG will cover part of the recurrent expenditures.
In addition to the above-mentioned external donors who have firmed up their
commitment to the Program, ODA is in the process of deciding on its
participation in it. However, lack of adequate funding in some critical areas
-- including the female MCH Workers' salary, logistics, infrastructure, and
operational and institutional support -- makes the overall FP/MCH service
delivery currently ineffective and investments in other program areas
wasteful.
PART III. THE PROJECT
61.       Proiect Oblectives.  The Project's main objective is to support the
Government's efforts to increase contraceptive prevalence and decrease the
total fertility rate. In addition, the Project would help to reduce maternal
and child morbidity and mortality, and to raise life expectancy. The Project
would contribute to the achievement of these goals through the financing of
key components of HMG's FP/MCH program that have inadequate funding and
Based on rate of exchange of US$1 = NRs. 49.00; EP estimate based on rate of
exchange of US$1 = NRa. 42.75.



-22-
institutional support. With respect to family planning, the goal would be to
increase the CPR from the present level of 23% to 31% by expanding the
coverage from the current figure of about 1.01 million couples to an estimated
1.74 million couples by the end of the Project period (FY2000). With respect
to family health goals, the Project envisages a substantial expansion of
client access to the improved and expanded network of clinical facilities at
the level of District Hospitals, Health Posts, and Sub-Health Posts. In
particular, by the end of the Project period, the goal would be to hold about
50,000 outreach clinics each month, served by 3,200 MCH Workers and other
staff operating out of the Sub-Health Posts. The expanded services and
counselling would also help safe motherhood goals for a growing number of
women through better child spacing, reducing pregna,icies too early and too
late in the reproductive life of a woman, as well as through pre-natal care
and more effective referral to the 25 new Primary Health Centers and 35 MCH
Units in the District Hospitals. The IDA Credit would supplement funds from
domestic and foreign sources, ensuring resource availability for the total
Program.
62.       Proiect Description.  The six-year (FY95-2000) Project will assist
in the development and implementation of a comprehensive FP/MCH program by
supporting four crucial components, namely: (a) Outreach Service Delivery
(US$32.1 million); (b) FP/MCH Clinical Units (US$1.8 million); (c) Logistics
and Supplies (US$1.3 million); and (d) Institutional Development (US$3.8
million). The thrust of the Project will be on outreach service delivery,
representing 82% of the total Project costs of US$39.0 million.  This
component will encompass salary support to the new cadre of female MCH Workers
who would be based at the Sub-Health Post level; construction and renovation
of about 225 Health Posts and 25 Primary Health Centers; and field operations
support, providing travel and daily allowances (TA/DA) for service delivery
and supervision. Five new FP/MCH Clinical Units will be established under the
Project. The logistics and supplies component will include the construction
and refurbishing of some eight warehouses; distribution of FP/MCH supplies to
the outlying health facilities, utilizing private transporters; and field
operations support to the logistics staff and their managers. Finally, the
institutional development component will cover the establishment of a field-
based and integrated Management Information System, setting up essential
record-keeping for service delivery by the outreach and clinical staff, and
for monitoring, evaluation and planning purposes; construction of seven
Clinical Training Centers; maintenance capacity development; and Project
management and implementation. To facilitate early start-up, the Credit will
provide retroactive financing not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent for
expenditures for various Project components incurred prior to Project signing,
but after January 1, 1994.
63.       Prolect Implementation.  The Project will be implemented through
the MOH. The management structure for the Project will consist of three major
components: (a) an FP/MCH Development Board, chaired by the Minister of
Health; (b) an Executive Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of
Health; and (c) a Project Implementation Unit, consisting of full-time senior
personnel, responsible for the day-to-day management and implementation of the
Project. The Unit, which has already been set up, is headed by a Project
Director, assisted by a Deputy Director and four Chiefs responsible for four



-23-
functional Sections: Program Monitoring and Supervision; Logistics and
Procurement; Infrastructure Development; and Finance and Administration. The
readiness for implementation is now at an advanced stage -- with the bidding
documents, designs and specifications, and land acquisition for construction
in the first two years completed. Implementation plans for other components
of the Project are also ready.
64.       Proiect Sustainabilitv.  At a total cost of US$39.0 million, the
six-y3ar IDA-supported Project would place a nominal burden (about 0.6 percent
of the total projected HMG expenditures for the period) on the Government's
total public expenditures during that period. However, since the IDA-
supported Project is an integral component of the Government's comprehensive
FP/MCH program, and would not stand on its own, it is necessary to ensure that
the overall FP/MCH program is sustainable. Given the low percentage of the
national budget (less than 2 percent of the total projected HMG expenditures
for the period) requirdd for the purpose and given also the critical
importance of the Government's FP/MCH program for the country's development
outlook, it is highly unlikely that the FP/MCH program would crowd out other
more important claims on public resources. The sustainability of the program,
therefore, depends entirely on the Government's willingness to allocate
sufficient resources to the program. In the context of the on-going public
expenditure review and of the investment prioritization exercise, the
Government has included the entire FP/MCH program, along with other priority
health programs, in the "core program," which is to be protected in case of
unforeseen budgetary shortfalls during any given fiscal year. While this does
not constitute an iron-clad guaranty against possible budgetary cutbacks, it
does signal the Government's seriousness about the FP/MCH program, and it will
ensure more timely and streamlined fund releases to the FP/MCH program.
65.       Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement.  IDA's experience in
the social sectors in Nepal so far has been limited to several education
projects. Lessons learned underscore the need to approach the issues at the
systemic level; the value of cost-effective and affordable interventions; and
the importance of focussing on institutional reforms and building up
institutional capacities for sustainability of the programs. While IDA has no
prior operational experience in Nepal in the population and health sector, the
lessons from impleunenting the education projects have proved relevant in
developing the proposed Project and in dealing with the sectoral issues
identified during the process of Project preparation. IDA's experience
elsewhere in the region also provided positive lessons in designing the
proposed Project. Of particular relevance is the leading role that IDA has
played in its long-standing commitment to the population sector in Bangladesh,
a country that is equally constrained by poverty and its associated
limitations. The Bangladesh Population and Health Program is now widely
recognized as a success story under adverse circumstances. This experience
was directly relevant for the design of the proposed Project in several ways -
- developing cost-effective mechanisms for FP/MCH service delivery in a
resource-constrained situation; exploring the potential role of female service
providers at the outreach level; and expanding the utilization of and access
to the limited health facilities available in the country. Given the
similarities in the contexts of the two countries, it should be possible for



-24-
Nepal to achieve a breakthrough in its population programs, provided the right
policies and programs are adequately implemented.
66.       Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA's country assistance strategy
being considered in parallel with this Project identifies population and
health as a top priority sector, and IDA involvement in the sector is
justified on several grounds. Firstly, through its macroeconomic dialogue
with HMG, IDA is in a position to help 1IMG L.tth the prioritization of public
expenditures and with the allocation of scarce domestic and external resources
to high return investment programs. As noted in para. 64 above, in the
context of the on-going public expenditure review, HMG's population and family
health program was identified as a core program for budget allocation
purposes, thus increasing the odds that adequate funds will be available for
the program in a timely manner. Secondly, by taking an overall view of the
needs of the sector rather than a more narrow project approach, IDA was able
to assist the Government in formulating a comprehensive and sustainable
population and family health program, which promotes a more rational
contraceptive method mix -- along with a realistic financing plan -- which now
serves as a framework for external donor support. Thirdly, by helping the
Government to organize a donors' conference on population in March 1992, IDA
was instrumental in mobilizing additional donor resources for the sector,
especially as some donors were waiting for IDA to signal its entry into the
sector before committing themselves. Finally, by acting as a lender of last
resort, IDA is able to fund critical inputs, such as O&M and TA/DA, without
which services do not reach the intended beneficiaries. This will assist in
expanding the absorptive capacity of the sector and increasing its
effectiveness. The proposed project is therefore consistent with the country
assistance strategy set out in this memorandum.
67.       Agreed Actions.  During negotiations, the following agreements were
reached with the Government: (a) in the event that grant funding becomes
available for the MIS component by November 1994, the corresponding amount
under this component may either be cancelled, with prior notice to IDA, or
subject to IDA agreement, reallocated for other Project-related purposes; (b)
HMG will open a Special Account at the Nepal Rastra Bank to facilitate payment
of eligible minor expenditures, and the Project Implementation Unit will be
authorized to operate the Account directly for disbursement in accordance with
IDA requirements; (c) HMG will conduct with IDA, a comprehensive mid-term
review of the Project no later than May 31, 1997; (d) the PIU will submit
semi-annual progress reports to IDA, and an HMG-IDA Project Completion Review
will be carried out at the end of the Project period; and (e) by March 31,
1995 and by March 31 each year thereafter HMG will review the status of
Project implementation jointly with IDA, and finalize the plans for the
following fiscal year.
68.       Environmental Aspects.  The program supported by this Project will
have no adverse environmental effect and is rated as a 'Category C' operation.
Indeed, the IDA assistance to family planning and MCH represents an integral
part of the environmental strategy for Nepal. Rapid population growth, which
has led to deforestation, breakdown in the fodder-livestock-soil nutrient
chain, and the expansion of cultivation into fragile slopelands, is a major
cause of degradation of the physical environment. Curbing population growth



-25-
is thus a prerequisite to solving the environmental problems, which are more
acute in the hills of Nepal, and are increasingly exerting pressure in the
terai. In addition, the Project will have direct positive effects on the
local environment by promoting health and sanitation education.
69.       Proiect Benefits.  Benefits would include lower rates of births,
and infant and maternal mortality and morbidity through cost-effective
delivery of the FP/MCH Program. The slower population growth and better
family health that would result from these efforts would be a vital pre-
condition for the poverty-reducing, environment, and other development goals
of Nepal. Besides improving the quantity and quality of care, the special
focus on expanding the workforce of female service providers would have an
additional benefit of creating new role models for rural women, which would
facilitate women-in-development programs.
70.       Risks.  The principal risk would be the inability of the Government
to accomplish the effective integration of FP/MCH activities with Primary
Health Care delivery and to complete the ongoing decentralization of program
execution. Other risks would include the inability to ensure appropriate
domestic resources, especially for the female MCH Workers; to maintain a
critical mass of staff of service providers and managers; and to achieve HMG-
donor-NGO coordination in the sector along with their long-range commitment to
the sector. These risks are being addressed as part of on-going institutional
reforms in the sector through enhanced management, monitoring and supervision
of the Project, and continuing HMG-IDA dialogues.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 18, 1994



-26-
Schedule A
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs:
Local     Foreign     Total
-----(US$ Million)-------------
Outreach Service Delivery              23.1       4.7        27.8
FP/MCH Clinical Units                  0.7        0.8         1.5
Logistics and Supplies                 0.8        0.3         1.1
Institutional Development              2.2         1.2        3.4
Base Costs            26.8        7.0        33.8
Physical Contingencies                0.4        0.3         0. 7
Price Contingencies                   3.9        0.6         4.5
Total Project Cost        31.1        7.9        39.0 /a
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign     Total
------------(US$ Million)-------------
Government                            12.3        -         12.3
IDA                                   18.8       7.9        26.7
Total                31.1       7 9        39.0
a/ Includes duties and taxes, estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent.



-27-
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
International     Local
Competitive    Competitive
Bidding        Bidding        Other /a        Total
1. Civil Works and Related Furniture                         14.9           0.3           15.2
(13.4)         (0.3)         (13.7)
2. Goods and Related Services
2.1  Equipment                            2.3            0.2            0.2           2.7
(2.3)          (0.2)          (0.1)         (2.6)
2.2 Vehicles/Transport                    0.7                           0.2           0.9
(0.7)                         (0. 1)        (0.8)
3. Consutancy
3.1 Project Implementation Support                                      0.7           0.7
(0.7)         (0.7)
3.2  Capacity Building and                                              0.7           0.7
Institutional Development                                          (0.7)         (0.7)
4. Training
4.1 Foreign                                                             0.1           0.1
(0.1)         (0.1)
4.2 Local                                                               0.3            0.3
(0.3)         (0.3)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Salaries                                                            9.1           9.1
(0.2)         (0.2)
5.2 Allowances                                                          7.8           7.8
(6.7)         (6.7)
5.3  Operations and Maintenance                                         1.5            1.5
(0.9)         (0.9)
Total                      3.0            15.1           20.9          39.0
(3.0)          (13.6)         (10.1)        (26.7)
Note:    Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Other procurement methods include force account, shopping, hiring of consultant services,
following IDA guidelines and administrative expenditures following Government procedures.



-28-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement of the Proposed IDA Credit
Amount                % of Expenditures to be
Categorv                (US$ million)                 financed
Civil Works and related furniture        12,3         90%
Equipment, other furniture,                           100% of foreign expenditures,
vehicles and materials                    3.0         100% of local expenditures (ex-factory)
and 75% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Training
Foreign                               0.1         100%
Local                                 0.3         95%
Professional fees and
consultants' services                     1.1         100%
Project Implementation Unit               0.3         100%
Project operating costs                   6.7         100% until July 15, 1996,
90%until July 15, 1998,
and 70% thereafter
Transportation costs                      0.2         75%
Unallocated                               2.6
TOTAL                        26.7
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY      95      96      97       98      99      2000
------------------ (US$ million) -------------------
Annual                             3.3    4.9      6.3      5.6     4.3      2.3
Cumulative                         3.3    8.2      14.5    20.1    24.4    26.7



-29-
Schedule C
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Timetable for Key Prolect Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                    52 months
(b)  Prepared by:                              Ministry of Health in
collaboration with IDA
(s)  First IDA mission:                        September 7, 1989
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:              June 24, 1991 (Post-appraisal -
March 30, 1992)
(e)  Negotiations:                             January 18, 1994
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            July 12, 1994
(g)  Relevant PCR/PPAR:                        None in the subsector



30                                        Sehedule D
Page I of 2
The Status of Bank Operations in Nepal
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits a/
(asofDecember3l, 1993)
Undisbursed
relative to         LasIARPP
Amount in USS million             appraisal       supervision rating
Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)            projecnon     Development    Overall
Credit No.      Year   Borrower            Purpose            IBRD        IDA        Undisbursed    (USS million)   objectves    objectives
40 credits have been fuily disbursed                                      474.43
Of which SECALs, SALs and Program Loans b/
Cr. 1769-NEP   1987   Nepal       Structural Adjustment          0.00      50.00
Cr. 2046-NEP   1989   Nepal       Structural Adjustnent          0.00      60.00
Sub-Total                                                      0.00      110.00
Cr. 1478-NEP   1984   Nepal       Power 1 (Marsyangdi)                    107.00         37.50 d/          14.50              3          3
Cr. 1515-NEP   1985   Nepal       Highways I11                             47.50         16.50              4.80              2          2
Cr. 1534-NEP   1985   Nepal       Agricultural Manpower                     8.40          4.80              1.90              2          2
Cr. 1535-NEP   1985   Nepal      Industrial Development                     7.50          1.50              0.00              2          2
Cr. 1570-NEP   1985   Nepal       Agriculturl Extension 11                  7.20          4.50              2.40              2          2
Cr. 1588-NEP   1985   Nepal       Telecommunications IV                    22.00          5.60              2.40              1          1
Cr. 1696-NEP   1986   Nepal       Cottage & Small Industries                5.75          0.40 dt           0.00              3          3
Cr. 1715-NEP   1986   Nepal       Narayani Irrigation m                    24.50         15.20             12.20              3          3
Cr. 1727-NEPc/ 1987   Nepal       Rural Developmentm I1                    19.10          0.00 dt          14.40              4          4
Cr. 1814-NEP   1987   Nepal       Sunsari-Morang l                         40.00         11.30              9.60              2          2
Cr. 1922-NEP   1988   Nepal       Road Flood Rehabilitation                15.50          5.50              7.60              2          2
Cr. 1924-NEP   1988   Nepal       Mahakali Iipgaticn 11                    41.30         16.90             17.00              4          4
Cr. 1988-NEP   1989   Nepal       Municipal Dev & Eafthquake               41.50          8.50             22.00              3          3
Cr. 2028-NEP   1989   Nepal       Hill Cormnunity Forestry                 30.50         27.00             25.20              3          3
Cr. 2029-NEP   1989   Nepal       Arun Ill Access Road                     32.80         33.40 dt          30.00              2          2
Cr. 2044-NEP   1989   Nepal       EngineeringEducation                     11.40         10.90             10.20              2          3
Cr. 2047-NEP   1989   Nepal       EarthquakeSchoolRehab                    22.80         15.50             11.80              1          2
Cr. 2144-NEP   1990   Nepal       BhairawaLumbini f                        47.20         38.50            36.80               1          2
Cr. 2239-NEP   1991   Nepal       Urban Water and Sanitation Rehab.        60.00         57.50             54.30              2          2
Cr. 2347-NEP   1992   Nepal       PowerEfficiencylmprovement               65.00         61.30             58.10              2          2
Cr. 2357-NEP   1992   Nepa        Basic and Primary Education              30.60         28.60             28.50              2          2
Cr. 2364-NEP   1992   Nepal       Telecoms V                               55.00         54.80             53.70              1          1
Cr. 2430-NEP   1993   Nepal       Sunsari Morang Headworks                 28.00         24.00             25.20              1          2
Total                                            0.00    1244.98 et    479.70 e/          442.60
of which has been repaid                                   17.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                   0.00    1227.92
Amount sold
of wbich repaid
Total undisbursed                                                       479.70
at  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
bt  Approved dUring or after FY80.
Ct  Clouedon July 15 1993.
dt  Projects being restcured and/or cancelled.
at The principal amounts of IDA credits are shown in US Dollar equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's
Report Undisbured amounts shown in US Dollar equivalent are valued at the exchange rate applicable on the date of this
stament In some cases, therere the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount er than the originsl principal
credit amount exprssed in dollar.



-31-
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
Statement of IFC Investments in Nepal
(as of January 31, 1994)
(US$ 000)
Amount in US$ million
Fiscal        Obligor        Business         Loan           Equity          Total
year
1975/93    Soaltee Hotel Lixn Tourism               3,450           444           3,894
1982     Nepal Orind Mag Mining                   4,966              -           4,966
(Private) Limited
Total gross commitment                 $8,860
Total commitments now held by IFC      $1,194
Total undisbursed (including participant's
portion                                     0



-32-
Annex Al
Page 1 of 1
NEPAL: Selected Indicators of
Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                             FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94a
Portfolio Performance
No. of Projects under Implementation                        30        27         28        24
Ave. Implementation Period (years)'                        5.4       5.2        5.3        5.0
Percent Projects Rated 3 or 4
Development Objectives2                                   23         15        28         23
Overall Status3                                           40         30        36         30
Average Ratings
Development Objectives                                   1.87       1.85      2.07       2.05
Overall Status                                           2.27       2.23      2.29       2.27
Disbursement Ratio (%)4                                    9.3        11.8      11.6       13.5
Memorandum Item: % Completed
Projects Rated Unsatisfactory'                           -          -         -        33.0
Portfolio Management
Supervision Resources (total sws)                           426        310       439        380
Average Supervision sws/project                             14.2       11.5       15.7      15.8
Supervision Resources by Location (in %)
Percent Headquarters                                      66         77        77         70
Percent Resident Mission                                  34        23         23         30
Supervision Resources by Rating Category (sws/project)
Projects rated 1 or 2                                     -          -         15.8       14.7
Projects rated 3 or 4                                     -          -         15.5       18.4
a/ Actual/annualised data as of September 30, 1993
1/   This is the average age of a project in the Bank's portfolio.
2/   Extent to which the project will meet its development objectives. A rating of n1I means that all development
objectives are expected to be achieved; "2," somae of the minor objectives may not be achieved but major objectives
are expected to be met: "3," major project objectives are likely to be achieved only in part, and the continued
justification of the project is uncertain; and "4," major objectives will probably not be achieved, and the project
appears to be no longer justified (Annex D2 of OD 13.05).
3/   Assessment of overall performance of the project based on the ratings given to individual aspects of project
implementation (e.g., management, availability of funds, compliance with legal covenants, etc, and to development
objectives. A rating of "1" means no significant problems; "2," moderate problems; "3," major problems but
appropriate actions are being taken to address the problems; and "4," major problems, but the problems are not being
adequately addressed or are caused by exogenous factors with no readily available solution. The overall status rating
is not given a better rating than that given to project develop.nent objectives (Annex D2 of OD 13.05).
4/   Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the beginning of the year
5/   For FY94 only: from the OED Database.



-33-
Annex A2
Page I of 2
NEPAL - IBRD/IDA and IFC Lending Program, FY91-97
By Sector and Lending Instrument
Past                  Current               Planned
Category                           FY91       FY92       FY93        FY94        FY95      FY96         FY97
IBRD/IDA
Commitments (JS$M)                   60.0      150.6       28.0       237.2        42.0       70.9       210.0
Sector (%)
Agriculture                          0.0        0.0      100.0         0.0        40.5       41.2        32.4
Industry and Finance                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Energy and Power                     0.0       43.2        0.0        59.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Public Sector Management             0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Infrastructure & Urban Dev.        100.0       36.5        0.0        21.3        59.5       27.8        46.1
Human Resources                      0.0       20.3        0.0        19.7         0.0       31.0        21.5
TA and Other                         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL                             100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0
Lending Instrument (%)
Adjustment Loans                     0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Specific iv. Loans & Others        100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0
TOTAL                             100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0
Disbursements (USSM)                 47.2       59.3       73.1        75.0        80.0       85.0        90.0
Adjustmnent loans                   6.4        7.9       14.1         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Specific Inv. Loans & Others       40.8       51.4       59.0        75.0        80.0        85.0       90.0
Interest (US$M)                       4.8        5.2        6.0         6.4         6.8        7.2         7.6
IFC
Approvals (US$m)                      0.0        0.0        0.8         1.3         0.0        0.0         0.0
Sector (%)
Agri-business                        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Cap. Markets                         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Chem-Fertilizer                      0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Infrastructure                       0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Manufacturing                        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Oil-Mining                           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Tourism                              0.0        0.0      100.0       100.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL                               0.0        0.0      100.0       100.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Investment Instment (%)
Loans                                0.0        0.0       98.0        76.9         0.0        0.0         0.0
Equity                               0.0        0.0        2.0        23.1         0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL                               0.0        0.0       100.0       100.0         0.0        0.0        0.0



-34-
Annex A2
Page 2 of 2
NEPAL - IFC and MIGA Program, FY75 - 93
Past
Category                   F775                   FY82                   FY93
IFC approvals (US$m)                        3.13                   4.97                   0.76
Sector (%)
Agribusiness
Capital markets
Chemicals/fertilizers
Infrastructure
Manufacturing
Oil/mining                                                     100.0
Tourism                                 100.0                                         100.0
TOTAL                                  100.0                  100.0                  100.0
Investment instrument (%)
Loans                                   86.0                   100.0                  98.0
Equity                                  14.0                     -                     2.0
Quasi-equity a/
TOTAL                                  100.0                  100.0                  100.0
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
MGA commitments (US$m)
a/ Includes quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instnuments.



-35-                                              Annex A3
Page 1 of 2
Nepal: Priority Poverty Indicators
Most Smetegon4ncameAgroup           N
23-0        15-20       ruat                                 higher
Unt of             ywn         7W,       uadia          Soth         LOS*      Income
r,rdicator                                 ature                age           go       (Ml)          Asia       cmse        group
PoVv
vpperfavaty liao                           focal am                ..          ..           ....
Ieount index                              % ofpop.                ..          ..          ..
L*tpoverty line                            loca wir.
1 Zount index                             % of pop.               ..          ..          ..
6wppercapita                                 USS                  70         110          180         320         350        1,610
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
.Unslilled urban wages                     local aur.               ..          ..          ..
Unskilled mral wages
Rural tean oftrade
Comumerpio Wudex                           1987-100               18          36          148
Loe inoome .........
Food                                          N                   ..          ..         151
Urban                                                            ..          ..          ..
RuMal
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public aqundite on basic so a seni         %ofGDP                  ..          ..           3
ross iniment ratios
Primary                                %scbool srpop.             20          51           86          95          113         100
male                                          U                  36          86          112         106          122         106
Female                                       *                    4           16          57          82          106          98
Mosality
infatmortality                         thco.liveblit            171         149          101          92           70          40
Under 5 mortality                                                 ..          ..         132         128           98          53
hinunizfation
Measles                                  %S oup                   ..          ..          58          57           73          70
DPT                                                               ..          ..          71          75           81          74
Child malurition (under.5)                                         ..         30            ...
lfe expectancy
Total                                       years                40          45           53          59           63          67
Females/males                               ratio              0.98         0.97        0.98         1.01        0.95        1.08
TOtal fertility rate                    bist per woman           6.0          6.5         5.5          4.2         3.7         3.5
Matemal moality  to                    100,000 live bird          ..           ..         833
Population growth rate                       Infant mortality rate                        Primary enrollment
(percent)                               (thou, of live birdh)                           (pe)
6+                                        250                                           120+
5                                         200                                           100
4                                                                                        80
3                                                                                        60
2 &0   1 ,  7-                    100                                             2
0                                            0                            -74
mid 60s    mid 70s       ane                mid 60s    mid 70s       nu                  mid 60s    mid 70s     nme
Q   Nepal
-Low kiconis



-36-                                                    Annex A3
Page 2 of 2
Nepal: Rlesources And Expenditures
Momt Same rqloa4sscme group          Newu
25-0        15-20       reewu                                higher
Unit of            ye"s         ywas      utfinate      South        LOS*%      income
Indicator                                  me-asure               ago         ago        (flue)       Asia      income        group
HUMAN RESOURCES
Popudation (mre-l991)                      thousands           10.344       12,841      19.401    1.152,162    3,127,265     773,803
Age dependency ratio                         ratio                0.75        0.86        0.82         0.73        0.66         0.71
Urbani                                      % ofpop.               3.5         4.8        10.0         26.0        40.1         53.9
Population growth rate                      amnual %               1.6         2.6         2.5          2.1          1.9         1."!
Urban                                         a4.0                            6.4         6.6          2.8          5.2         3.1
Labor force (15-64)                        thousands            4,840        5,588       7,911      419,990    1,448,104     302,448
Agriculture                              % of labor force          94          93            .
Industry                                                            2            1
Female                                                             35          35           33          22           33           32
Femiale per 100 males
Urban                                      number                  .            ..
Rural
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                      thou. sq. km            141          141         141        5,133      38,828       23,990
Density                                  pop. per sq. km         73.0         91.0       131.0        215.0        77.0         31.0
Agricultural land                        % of land arm           25.8         30.2        33.9         58.9        47.4         41.8
Change in agricultura land                  annual %              0.0          0.3         0.9          0.0         0.0          0.0
Agricultural land under irrigation             %                   2.4         5.6        14.5         26.2        13.7         12.6
Forests and woodland                      tho. sq. km              25          25           25         809        9,197        5,396
DeforestaL;an (net)                        annual %               0.0          0.0         0.0
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households           % Offinomae                          59            .
Share of bottom 40%/ of hoseholds                                  ..13                     .
Share of bottom 20% of households                                  ..5 
EXPENDffURE
Food                                       % ofOGDP                  .           .        52.0         36.2
Staples
Meat, fish, milk, chees, egp
Crawlimoports                          thou. etwictonnnes           0121                              5,596      36,008       44,418
Food aid in cereals                                                              6           6        2.408       6,669        4,047
Food production per capita                1979.81-100             118          110         123          113         122          101
Fertilizer consnumton                        kg/h                  1.0         5.0        23.0         57.5        47.5         94.2
Share of agricultur in GDP                 % of GDP              64.6         69.0        54.8         28.6        28.7
Housing                                    % of GDP                  .           .        12.8
Average household size                perwos per household          ..6 
Urban
Fixed investment: housing                  % ofGDP                  .            ..
Fuel and power                             % of GDP                  ...5.7
Energy consumption per capita            kg of oil equiv.           6925                               207          350        1,249
Households wuith electricity
Urban                                   % of households            .            ..
Rurali
Transport and comnunicatIon                % of GDP                  .                      1.1
Fixed investmnent: transport equipment                              .            ..
Total road length                           tho. km                 .            ..
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Access to health care                      % of pop.                .            ..
Population per physician                    persons            46,179       5 1,400     16,829i       2.459
Population per nurse                                           87,650       17,699       2,755
Population per hospital bed                                         ..       7,100       4,010        1,648       1,048          509
Access to safe water                       % of pop.                ..         .0         36.0         70.3        70.6
Urban                                                                        83.0        66.0         76.5        79.3
Rural                                         i                     .5.0                 33.0         66.9        62.8
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)        % of cause                ..                     14           189         32
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                              % of school-age pop.         S           13          30          39           44           56
Female                                       if2                                4          17          31           37
PuPil-teacher ratio: primary            pupils per teacher         29           29          37          59           39           25
PuPil-teacher ratio: scondary                                     I18           23          ..23                     20
PuPils reaching grade 4                    % of cohort              .            ..
Repeater rate: primary                   % of tota enroll            .                      2 1          4
illiteacy                              %ofpop. (age 15+)                        8 1         74           54          39
Female                                %of fem. (age 15+)           ...                      7          68           52
Newapa   circulation     ~     _perthou. pop.             3           7            7
Source: World BankJ International Economics Deoantment. April 1993



-37-
Annex A4
Page I of 3
NEPAL - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                                Projected
1988     1989     1990     1991      1992         1993      1994     1995
NAT'L. ACCTs. (as % GDP at Current Market Prices)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                    51.4     52.6     51.9      50.1     48.7            -        -         -
Industry                                       14.1     13.5     13.6      14.6     16.4            -        -         -
Services                                       34.5     33.9     34.5      35.3     34.9            -        -         -
Consumption                                     87.0     87.9     90.5      89.5     87.9          87.9     88.6      86.5
Gross Fixed Investment                          22.1     22.0      19.4     21.1     21.9          20.7     20.8      22.5
of which:
Private Investment                            14.1     12.7     10.2      11.7     14.4          13.1     13.3     13.6
Public Investment                             7.9       9.3      9.2      9.4       7.5           7.6      7.5      8.9
Exports (G +NFS)                                12.8     12.7      12.0     13.7     19.5          21.3       22      22.9
Imports (G+NFS)                                 21.8     22.7     21.8      24.3     29.3          29.9     31.4      31.9
Gross National Savings                          13.4     12.1      9.7      10.4     12.0          12.1       11      12.9
GrossDomesticSavings                            13.0     12.1      9.5      10.5     12.1          12.2     11.4      13.5
Memorandum items
GDP (million US$ at current prices)            3127      3070     3192     3333     2956          3163      3372     3611
GNP Per Capita                                  170       180      180      180       170           148      151      157
PUBLIC FINANCE (As % of GDP at Cur. Mkt. Prices)
Current revenues                               10.7     10.0     10.2      10.3     10.7          10.5      11.0    11.6
Current expenditures                            6.8      7.3      7.3       7.3      7.8           8.0      7.6      7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                      3.9      2.7      2.9       3.0      2.9           2.5      3.4      3.8
Capital expenditure                            13.7     15.9     14.3      15.4     13.1          13.5     12.8      13.7
Foreign financing                               5.5      7.3      6.5       6.0      5.4           8.5      7.5      8.8
REAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATES Q!6)
Gross Domestic Product                         7.4      4.5       8.0      4.6      2.1           2.9       4.2      4.2
Gross Domestic Income                           -         -        -        -        -             -         -        -
REAL ANNUAL PER CAPITA GROWTH RATES '%)
Gross Domestic Product                         4.6       1.9      5.4        2      -0.5          0.3       1.7      1.7
Total Consumption
Private Consumption                                       -        -
MONETARY INDICATORS
M2/GDP                                         0.31     0.34     0.35      0.36     0.36            -        -         -
GrowthofM2(%)                                  22.4     24.2     18.6      19.5     21.1
Priv. sector credit gr./total credit growth(%)  1.63    1.01     1.16      1.18     1.28



-38-
Annex A4
Page 2 of 3
NEPAL - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                                Projected
1988    1989    1990    1991       1992         1993     1994     1995
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$M)
Exports (goods and nfs)                  398.4   388.2   380.9   450.6    547.7            628      696      772
of which: Merchandise                   186.5    165.2    180.9   234.5    310.9         369      425      484
Imports (goods and nfs)                 -680.9  -691.9  -694.8  -799.8  -822.5             881      993     1075
of which: Merchandise                  -627.8  -641.7  -642.3   -736.6  -734.9           789      893      971
Resource balance                        -282.5  -303.7  -313.9  -349.2  -274.8            -253     -247     -303
Net factor payments                      -65.5    -55.6   -56.0   -67.7   -62.5            -60      -79      -92
Net current transfers                     78.6    58.4    61.1       62.3     58.0          60       65       70
Cufrent account balance                 -269.5  -300.8  -308.8  -354.6  -279.3            -253    -311      -325
Private direct investment                                     -        -        -
MLT loans (net)                          262.3   287.0   243.5   253.3   200.8             163      133      162
Official                              262.3   287.0   243.5   253.3   200.8              163      133      162
Private
Other Capital (including EAO)            124.2     16.8   160.2    144.4    157.6          227      203      189
Changeinreserves /a                        117        3      95       43       79          138       55       48
Memorandum Item
Exports as % of GDP                        6.0      5.4      5.7      7.1     11.1         12.5     13.4     14.3
Imports as % of GDP                       -20.1    -21.0   -20.2   -22.4   -26.2         -26.8    -28.2    -28.8
Resourcebalanceas%ofGDP                    9.1     10.0      9.9     10.6      9.8          8.5      9.4      9.0
REALANN. GROWTHRATES
(1980 PRICES)
Merchandise exports                      -        -        -       -        -            -        -
Primary
Manufacturers                          -
Merchandise imports                      -
PRICE INDICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                        -        -        -        -        -            -        -
Import price index
Terms of trade index                      -        -        -        -        -            -        -
Real exchange rate                       90.6    87.3    83.4    77.5       76.5
Consumer price index                     11.0     6.3      11.5     9.8    21.0           8.9      5.8      5.0
(% of growth rate)
Real interest rates (Deposit rate)       2.0      6.7      2.5      4.2     -7.0          -        -
GDP deflator (% growth rate)              8.4     7.9      8.5      9.2      19.0         8.9      5.8      5.0
/a Includes use of IMF resources.



-39-
Annex A4
Page 3 of 3
NEPAL - KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
Actual                              Projected
1988    1989     1990    1991      1992         1993     1994     1995
(million US$ at current prices)
Total Debt Outstanding (TDO) a/            1178    1368      1640    1770      1797        2088     2359    2534
NetDisbursements a/                         246      185      123      109       94          133      162      184
Total Debt Service (TDS) a/                46.5     59.6    69.0    63.0    66.0             72       75       83
Debt and Debt Service indicators                                      (Percentages)
TDO/XGS                                266.3    317.3   389.3   357.1    305.0            322      332      326
TDI/GDP                                  35.2    42.2    49.2       51.2    64.0         64.0     65.0     66.0
TDS/XGS                                  11.8    15.5      17.6     13.7     11.7        11.1     10.6     10.7
ConcessionallIDO                         87.4    90.0    92.4      93.8    94.8            95       95       95
IBRD/IFC Exposure indicators
IBRD/IFC DS/Public DS                      0        0        0        0        0            0        0        0
Pref. Cred./Public DS                     89       89       91       82       68            -        -        -
IBRD/DS/XGS                                0        0        0        0        0
lBRD/Portfolio Share                       0        0        0        0        0
IFC (US$M)
Loans
Equity & quasi-equity
MIGA
MIGA Guarantees
a/ Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private non-guaranteed debt, use of IMF credits,
and short-term capital.



MAP SECTION



I-RD 25400
'  S¢-                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E P A L
N..                                      '1 tPOPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
30J  sX                                 }PROPOSED SITES FOR HEALTH FACIUTIES
L . DARCHUIA            C_     t               ¢tHMPROPOSED PEOECIS:                                                                                                                       AJRPORTS.
_                                          I w   J  u           X                                                                       @   PZARIM  hEALIH CENTRES               *      INIERNATIONAL
/                    /                                                                       /z,,  NEW HEALTTH POS                           DOMESTC (PAVED)
EAJHANG      f             f                                      4V                                                                  Ti  ADDMTONAL WPOSRKSS                         SELECTED TOWNS ANDE VALAGES
)*IAR  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~UGU                          (                                                                                 0   EP/mcH NUrs                           A      STACTHEADEOUAHTSE
EHi>  EAiT*I TA * FAR                                 IC    4                                                                                                                                          a    ZONE HEADCRARTSES
rT   ,   ,J  *  f  ,,   --, r-Rt    N'                                                                                                                   *              ATIONACAPITAL
g >    *   * t   *c;!*  )   r   /   X    )   :3                                                           MChUNTAINECOLO>CALZCNE  _ _              ....  DSWCTE,OUNDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... OSTCT BUNDRIE
I    I          \                                                                    AEW4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUTAIN ECOLOGCANL ZONE  DTITRLJAP
jDHANDELDHURA~~~~~~~~~~~k.*,/ "   JUMLA                                                          ,r7    HILL ECOLDGCAL ZONE                                                                      ZONE BOUNDARIES
ANE+ItSTLHUEA.Jt. * t                      C t                  5 M  I D  $   DOLPA                                                                           ETERAI ECOLGCAL ZONE                        DEVELOPMENT REGION BOUNDAARES
*' DOM STIER N -_*                    S                 a  KATHMANNUVAIDY --                                                                                    K                                          INTERNATIONALEOUN DARIES
IOT                                                            +                                                                              KA) .-'VA *
LiT IVEIJPkHIo~~~~~~           SADLEI                                                        MUSTANG +
*  ~ ~   -~~LLREEILTo~~~~~~7NP~~  *     ~          ~          ~             ATANANGI
SA?LYA~~    ~   f  BAGLONG~~           EASEL0 A         A AK  i\
0~.Lo&~j~1~  )  RASUWA
2r                                                                                                                                                  A  T I                                                                                      W.~~~~ROP  SI~RNLAENG"OHH
/ -1                    E>^4t  lJ
TA o.,,,o,A..     ,
d.,,omjnooln. ond any
otA.rl Mfo,,otonb .hown0o                                                                               5            2           I0a
6           I         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)                               INMPt
< hON,"     20        lo        A0         O        10H0 MJL!S
Mol o any .ndone..,
OTo uchO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IANUARY .
beondorM. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
JAUARY 1994



