Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22177
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26000)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.4 MILLION (US$26.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
June 25, 2001
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rpients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)
NRs. 74.25 = US$ 1.00 (at Closing)
US$ 1.00 = NRs. 49.00 (at Appraisal)
FISCAL YEAR
July 16   - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CTCs            -        Clinical Training Centers
CPR             -        Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
CTC             -        Clinical Training Center
DFID            -       Department for Intemational Development
DHOs            -        District Health Offices
DOHS            -        Department of Health Services
FPIMCH          -        Family Planning and Maternal Child Health
GTZ             -       Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German)
HAs             -        Health Assistants
HMG             -        His Majesty's Government
HP              -        Health Post
IDA             -       International Development Association
IMR             -       Infant Mortality Rate
LMD             -        Logistic Management Division
MCH             -        Maternal and Child Health
MIS             -        Management Information System
MMR             -       Maternal Mortality Rate
MOF             -        Ministry of Finance
MOH             -        Ministry of Health
MOPE            -        Ministry of Population and Environment
MTR             -        Mid-Term Review
NFHS            -        National Fertility Health Survey
NHTC            -        National Health Training Center
NPC             -        National Planning Commission
OPD             -       Out Patient Department
PFHP            -        Population and Family Health Project
PHCC            -        Primary Health Care Center
PIU             -        Project Implementation Unit
RMN             -        Resident Mission of Nepal
SAR             -        Staff Appraisal Report
SHP             -        Sub-Health Post
TFR             -        Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA           -        United Nations Population Fund
USAID           -        United States Agency for International Development
VDC             -        Village Development Committee
WB              -       World Bank
Vice President:     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:       Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager/Director:      Richard Lee Skolnik
Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ian. P. Morris/Tirtha Rana



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
NEPAL
POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        14
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                       16
9. Partner Comments                                                                     19
10. Additional Infonnation                                                             26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicatorx/Log Frame Matrix                                    27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   40
Annex 8. Project Output/Outcome Supportive Tables (Table I - 5)                         43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0 10460                                       Project Name: POPULATION & HEALTH
Team Leader: Tirtha Rana                                   TL Unit: SASHP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: POPULATION & HEALTH                             L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26000
CountryIDepartment: NEPAL                                                  Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: HR - Reform and Financing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/04/1989                               Effective: 07/15/1994          07/15/1994
Appraisal:  10/05/1993                                 MTR: 09/16/1997             09/16/1997
Approval:  04/12/1994                               Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: KINGDOM OF NEPAL/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners: NA
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                             Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:      Kenichi Ohashi                             Ann Hamilton
Sector Manager:       Richard Lee Skolnik                        Martin Karcher
Team l eader at ICR:   Tirtha Rana                               Badrud M. Duza
ICR Primary Author:   Tirtha Rana
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Bank's 1989 Social Sector Review for Nepal underscored the central importance of
population and health interventions. Detailed assessment by His Majesty's Government of Nepal,
backed by field investigations which was supported by a Japan Grant Fund and other sources,
identified major program needs, costs, and financing gaps. A broad consensus finally emerged on
key program actions for improving the health of mothers and children - - and a recognition that
curbing Nepal's high fertility and rapid population growth (2.7% a year at Project inception) was
a crucially important step toward reducing poverty.
Notwithstanding the broad consensus reached the Nepal Population and Family Health Project,
implemented between 1994 and 2000, was the first Bank project in Nepal's health sector. Its
inception met with ambivalence and hesitation among some policymakers and donor
representatives, who questioned the rationale for an IDA credit in the social sector. A long
dialogue with national and international stakeholders followed, with 13 Bank missions for the
Project between 1989 and 1993, several Bank missions to donor headquarters, and an
international donors meeting in Kathmandu.
The Project's broad goal was to support the Government's National Family Planning and Maternal
and Child Health (FP/MCH) Program, aimed at increasing contraceptive prevalence, lowering
total fertility, reducing maternal and child morbidity and mortality, and raising life expectancy.
The Project had three specific development objectives:
(a)  Increasing the coverage, quality, and utilization of FP/MCH services through outreach and
clinical services and assured supplies of drugs and contraceptives.
(b)  Improving the functioning of the grassroots health facilities by recruiting and deploying
female MCH workers and providing field operations support.
(c)  Enhancing the Governnent's institutional and managerial capacity for effectively
implementing a comprehensive population and MCH program.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project totaled US$39.0 million, of which the IDA Credit provided US$26.7 million
equivalent. Its design included four clusters of components, extending to all 75 districts of the
country:
Outreach service delivery (US$32.1 million, more than 75 percent of Project resources) - to
train and deploy female MCH workers, supported by Government funds (accounting for a quarter
of the cluster resources); to improve the physical environment for service delivery through
provision of infrastructure and equipment at the level of health posts (HPs) and primary health
care centers (PHCCs) (about half the cluster resources); and to provide field operations support
- 2 -



for staff mobility and monitoring and supervision (a quarter of the cluster resources).
Clinical FP/MCH units (US$1.8 million)-to develop five units for surgical contraception and
maternal and child health care.
Logistics and supplies (US$1.3 million)-to construct and renovate warehouses for essential
drugs, contraceptives, vaccines and equipment; to develop a transportation system for supplies;
and to provide field operations support for logistics management and staff and supervisor
mobility.
Institutional development (US$3.8 million)-to develop a health management information
system (MIS); to create seven clinical training centers for developing and upgrading the skills of
FP/MCH clinical staff; to build maintenance capacity for infrastructure and equipment; and to
support Project management.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no change in the original components, but within the framework of these components
the scope of work was adjusted during and after the mid-term review (MTR).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall readiness and quality at entry are rated satisfactory. A practical problem was the Ministry
of Health's (MOH) lack of familiarity with IDA procedures and requirements. While MOH was
accustomed to direct implementation of programs by donors, following their spending criteria and
often on a turnkey basis, this first IDA project in the sector had to be implemented in accordance
with Government mechanisms and regulations. Painstaking preparations before Credit
effectiveness laid the groundwork for the Project.
The Borrower gained a growing understanding of the Project issues in the long, participatory
process of preparation, which involved producing an extensive situation analysis, program options
and cost implications, project proposals, and a detailed financing plan. The international donors
meeting clarified key operational and resource issues. The project implementation unit (PIU) was
set up, and its director and senior staff received procurement and disbursement training. Progress
was made on development of financial and procurement plans, and the bidding documents were
prepared for the initial civil works packages. Infrastructure and logistics needs were documented
through countrywide surveys. All construction sites were identified and land acquisitions
completed for the construction planned for the first two years. Prototype architectural designs
and cost estimates for different types of health facilities were completed. An 18-month long field
investigations and its result detailed the requirements for the new institutional elements envisaged
in the national health policy, including the PHCCs, sub-health posts, and MCH workers. And the
Project launch workshop helped to develop an initial base for the collaborating agencies and staff
on the Project objectives, components, and implementation arrangements. Hence, considerable
technical work and preparation for civil works was carried out before approval of the Project.
Two institutional issues were inadequately addressed during project preparation: (i) the location
- 3 -



of the PIU and its intricate institutional relationship with the MOH and the Department of Health
Services (DOHS); and (ii) donor coordination. The planning division of the MOH was
responsible for Project preparation and coordination under the guidance of the Interministerial
Development Board, chaired by the Minister of MOH and the member secretary of the project
steering committee chaired by the Secretary MOH. This management structure sidelined the role
of DOHS which was the main implementing agency of the MOH. The DOHS only partially
supported PIU implementation efforts and this increased the risk that project components would
not be mainstreamed into DOHS programs. Thus, the PIU lacked adequate procurement and
financial authority and faced slow decision making. Despite the Borrower's assurances during
Project preparation and negotiation, these issues remained unresolved before Credit effectiveness,
causing Project delays. Donor coordination was always an issue. The project preparation team
and the MOH had to face skepticism from the donor agencies about the rationale for a health
project financed by IDA. This contributed to the long preparation and appraisal process. The
Bank, through country management and sector teams, could perhaps have played a more
proactive role in encouraging the Government and donors to establish an active coordinating
mechanism -- initially for the project and eventually for the benefit of the wider health sectoral
program. This could have developed better synergies between donor financed projects.
In addition, the political changes of the mid 1 990s led to disruptive staff turnover in the MOH and
the PIU -- a portent to implementation problems to be faced by the project.
The Project became effective on July 15, 1994, as scheduled, and closed on December 31, 2000
and was implemented within the framework of country's broader primary health care program.
Many related program inputs were being already supported by a number of new and existing
external development partners. Its timing was opportune, notwithstanding some reluctance in the
donor community, allowing it to respond to health policy developed during Nepal's transition
from the traditional panchayat to a democratic government.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project objectives were clear, focused, and realistic, embodying the sectoral priorities
reflected in the Country Assistance Strategy and the country's health and population policies and
Eighth Five-Year Plan. The Project substantially helped in increasing the coverage, quality, and
utilization of FP/MCH services, achieved the targets for deploying female MCH workers, and
strengthened the institutional capacity in a modest way for managing and implementing FP/MCH
programs. In view of these achievements, the Project's performance in meeting its objectives is
rated satisfactory (see Annexes I and 8 for outcome and impact indicators).
The establishment of new facilities and a new cadre of village-based female MCH workers
expanded access to MCH services down to the village development committees (VDC) level.
Between 1994/95 and 1999/2000 outpatient visits in the outreach health facilities increased from
4.5 million a year to more than 7 million, first antenatal visits increased from 15.5% of pregnant
women to 35%, and deliveries by trained health workers increased from 3.1% to 13.5%, all these
records are quoted from Health MIS reports of MOH from the year 1994/95 to 1999/00.
-4 -



Regular outreach clinics have been institutionalized in all VDCs. During the Project period
(July 1994 - December 2000), contraceptive prevalence increased from 23% to 34.5% ( Health
MIS reports 1994/95 to 1999/00), the total fertility rate per woman fell from 5.8 to 4.6 (NFHS,
1996), life expectancy is estimated to have increased from 53 years in 1991 to more than 58 in
1999 (as recorded by Ministry of Population and Environment), the infant mortality rate declined
from 107 per 1,000 live births in 1991 to less than 75, in 1997 as recorded in Government's Ninth
Five Year Plan document and the maternal mortality ratio fell from 8.5 per 1,000 live births in
1991 to 5.4 in 1996 (NFHS, 1996). And between 1991 and 1996 under-five mortality fell from
197 per 1,000 live births to 118 (NFHS, 1996).
The Project enhanced project management, financial, and procurement management capacity in
MOH system. One reflection of the maturing of capacity is the increasing focus on outcomes by
MOH in program implementation and monitoring. Although the Government formally declined to
retrofit monitoring and outcome indicators and targets during the MTR, the Government and
Bank supervision teams continually monitored development indicators that can be linked in part to
the Project. The Government set targets as indicated in National Health Policy, 1991 and the
impact and outcome indicators as appropriate to project set targets and outcomes were regularly
monitored through the time series information as documented in National Family Health Survey of
1996, series of annual reports produced by Department of Health Services, Ministry of Health
(year 1994 to 2000) and from the report of Ministry of Population and Environment as presented
in Annex 1. This Project contributed significantly to the achievement of the increased
contraceptive prevalence rate (the formal objective of the project) and to other government
targets; through the provision of strategically designed project inputs to enhance the level of
access, coverage and quality of the FP/MCH program by: (a) expanding the network of outlying
health infrastructure; (b) improving the assured supplies of drugs, vaccines and contraceptives by
improved logistics management; (c) improved outreach and clinical services including through the
permanent placement of MCH workers at each of the 3915 VDCs (exclusively out of counterpart
contribution); (d) efforts to improve the monitoring and supervision system; and (e) enhancing the
institutional and managerial capacity of Government for implementing the FP/MCH services
within the established framework of an integrated primary health care program. As presented in
table I of Annex 8, service utilization over the project period has been notably progressive, and
the consistency of such findings are corroborated by table 2 and 3 of Annex 8 where the outcomes
were assessed by three cycles of each trimester during the final last year of the Project, in each
level of outreach health facility.
4.1.1 Increasing the coverage, quality, and utilization of FP/MCH services through outreach and
clinical services and assured supplies of drugs and contraceptives
The Project led to substantial physical and institutional improvements enhancing service outcomes
in rural Nepal (Annex 1; Annex 8, Tables 1-4). Although late completion of a few of the physical
facilities limited their use during the implementation period, all of them were in operation by
completion of the Project. The Project established several FP/MCH units, enhancing the ability to
provide surgical contraception and child health and maternal services. It constructed and
renovated health posts and PHCCs, extending outreach services throughout the country. And it
set up a warehouse and supply distribution network that has made service delivery more
- 5 -



dependable.
4.1.2 Improving thefunctioning of the grassroots health facilities by recruiting and deploying
female MCH workers andprovidingfield operations support
Female MCH workers have been deployed in most sub-health posts at the VDC level in all 75
districts, serving the rural poor in outlying areas exclusively out of Government's cost and over
90% of them are regularized. Field operations support has helped to develop a countrywide
monitoring and supervision system, although the system's utilization has been limited by the low
subsistence for staff and supervisors in the field. Despite Bank's persistent efforts, Government's
reluctance to increase the level of daily allowances and service provider's unwillingness to
participate in supervision functions limited disbursement in this category of expenditure to about
61 percent only.
4.1.3 Enhancing the Government's institutional and managerial capacity for effectively
implementing a comprehensive population and MCH program
The Project, through the learning experience and training provided, increased MOH's in-house
capacity for managing major health programs. It also provided valuable support toward
strengthening the Health MIS, creating clinical training centers, and developing options for
maintenance capacity, complementing the initiatives of other donors. And there is now a valuable
pool of specialized skills among regular and contractual staff-skills in implementation, financial
management, inter-agency coordination, and procurement of civil works, goods and services;
logistics and operational training in health service delivery; and computerized financial
management.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Outreach service delivery. This cluster of components vastly expanded countrywide access
to and coverage of FP/MCH services and established a large health infrastructure network.
Overall achievement under these components is rated satisfactory (ranging from highly
satisfactory for logistics and supplies to modest for field operations support).
MCH workers: This component to establish and deploy a new cadre of female MCH workers in
sub-health posts at the VDC level in all 75 districts has been substantially implemented. Although
progress slowed after the first four years, 3,100 staff have been trained for the 3,150 positions,
and 2,793 are in place. The deployment (and, for some, reemployment) of the remaining 357 was
pending because of civil service regulations affecting staff recruitment. Only 662 MCH workers
received refresher training during the project period which is being carried out presently through
support of multiple development partners (DFID, USAID, UNFPA, UNICEF and GTZ) in their
respective project districts.
Healthposts andprimary health care centers: Under this component the Project provided
support to nearly 550 health and related infrastructure facilities, including about 60 percent of
HPs and PHCCs. The cost of the enlarged scope of infrastructure development was US$ 16.5
million compared with the original estimate of US$12.46 million. Of this, US$15.9 million was
- 6 -



spent for HPs and PHCCs, covering 77 percent of the allocation for outreach service delivery.
The medical equipment were supplied to 525 facilities, mostly HPs and PHCCs, including 16
health centers at a cost of US$1.3 million, much less than the US$2.0 million allocated for the
original 269 facilities (Annex 2.c.2).
The original plan provided for constructing 125 new facilities and renovating 100 existing HPs.
At the project closing, 133 new HPs were constructed and an additional 35 HPs received major
renovation. Further, the HPs in hill regions were substantially expanded at the MTR to reflect
revised service delivery needs. By Project closing 168 HPs were completed and fully functional,
and the Government gave assurances that it would complete one HP that remained incomplete by
closing of the Project from its own resources (US$20,000). During the final year the Project
undertook fairly extensive repair and maintenance of another 332 HPs, which should keep them in
reasonable operating order for the next 10-15 years. The project provided medical equipment to
479 HPs (all the new and renovated HPs), including basic furniture for 168 HPs and staff
quarters. Of the planned 25 PHCCs, 15 were new constructions, 10 were established by
renovating and extending HPS.
This ambitious country-wide agenda of infrastructure was also implemented with impressive
speed and efficiency. Spearheaded by a modestly staffed PIU, the efforts were carried out in
about three years under daunting organizational and field constraints, including occasional
insurgency near some sites. This scale and pace of development would not have been possible
with Government and MOH resources and technical capacity alone, nor with the usual external
funding sources. The quality of the construction has been deemed satisfactory, as confirmed by
independent monitoring consultants, end-line facility surveys, and joint IDA and inter-ministerial
mission reviews. The facility survey by PIU, as well as DOHS annual reports and Health MIS
data, show increasing utilization of services between 1994/95 and 1999/2000 (Annex 8: Tables
1-4).
Field operations support: Under this component, for which almost a quarter of the IDA Credit
(US$6.1 million) was earmarked, a monitoring and supervision system for integrated primary
health care delivery was developed and systematically implemented. Some 650 district and
regional supervisors were also trained and a checklist, used by supervisors while in field visits, is
now in use. But the inadequate daily allowance for field visits by staff permitted by Government
regulations, and the revision of the criteria for field travel allowance for field visits ( staff had to
travel at least 12 miles instead of the previous 5 miles from their base) seriously constrained staff
and supervisor mobility in the field. Government regulations also ruled out such options as using
independent monitoring consultants tied with MOH supervisors, although joint IDA-PIU and
inter-ministerial field visits and dialogue provided a useful, if ad hoc, solution. These problems
have resulted in less progress than expected even though the Ministry of Finance, during the
preparation of the Project, had agreed to consider options to resolve this constraint. During
supervision missions, this issue was brought to the attention of the highest level of Government.
There was a reluctance, on behalf of Government, to address this issue for health alone. This
issue got further complicated by the imbalance created by some projects directly implemented by a
number of donors which topped up the government level of daily allowances. However, one
positive point was that the female MCH worker field allowances were increased to match male
- 7 -



village health worker for the past two years. The coverage of reporting on field services, using
new checklists for integrated primary health care, has increased in all 75 districts -from less than
70% in 1993/94 to well over 90% in 1999/2000 -- this despite the insurgency affecting public
service delivery in large parts of the country (Annex 8: Table 1).
Towards the end of the Project, a pilot study was carried out by the Project in 15 Sub-Health
posts (SHPs) of five districts to test a model of "community based supervision and monitoring"
with active involvement of VDC support committees, local community members and facility level
service providers. According to this study, community based supervision and monitoring system
is more realistic for quality enhancement of outreach health service and proven effective in
strengthening routine management of the outreach health facilities including enhanced client
satisfaction. MOH is expected to gradually extend this innovative steps forward in subsequent
years.
4.2.2 FPIMCH clinical units. The Project constructed seven FP/MCH units (compared to five
planned) and provided them with medical equipment and basic furniture. The cost of US$0.28
million was substantially lower than the appraisal estimate of US$ 1.8 million. With these facilities
having just started to function, achievement under this component is rated modest.
4.2.3 Logistics and supplies. This component has been most effective to result a fully functional
logistics infrastructure for the integrated primary health care system. The Project exceeded
several physical targets: it built 11 warehouses compared to seven planned, expanding storage
space by 45 percent at the central level and by more than 40 percent at the regional level, and it
increased cold room storage for vaccines by more than 67 percent at the regional level which was
beyond the original target. It developed a transportation system-including 25 pick-up vehicles
for warehouses-for distributing medical supplies and contraceptives throughout the country.
The Project also surpassed targets in providing computer support, photocopiers, and fax machines
for logistics monitoring and other equipment for regional warehouses and district health offices.
Though not planned, but clearly needed, logistics training (management, inventory control, MIS)
was given to almost 9,000 management and operational staff at all levels. Mainstreaming of the
logistics operations with the Logistics Management Division of DOHS and coordination with
donor agencies in systems development and training were both extremely effective. Achievement
under this component is rated satisfactory.
4.2.4 Institutional capacity development. The Project set up four clinical training centers that,
if equipped with skilled, experienced trainers and other technical and support staff, should
improve the quality of care over time. Although the Project originally called for constructing five
clinical training centers, PIU, in consultation with DOHS, reduced the number to four because
fewer qualified trainers were available at the districts level than expected.
The Project contributed to institutional strengthening in logistics management and, to some
extent for health MIS. It improved fmancial management capacity at the district level by
providing training for 69 accountants. It laid out some operational options for building
maintenance capacity for physical infrastructure, and MOH has endorsed for policy
recommendations. Project activities enhanced the capacity of PIU--and, in some areas of
- 8 -



MOH--in financial, infrastructure and logistics management, and project implementation. Senior
Project staff received training and exposure through national, regional, and international courses.
These are some of the modest gains for a ministry widely viewed as having little absorptive
capacity only a few years ago. If MOH could sustain the core skills, it should be able to handle
similar projects in the future with minimal external assistance. However, the field operation
support and quality enhancing measures for continued monitoring and supervision were not
adequately dealt with appropriate incentives to outreach workers. In addition the lost opportunity
during the pre-MTR period impeded the possible gains that could have been made in institutional
and management capacity improvement. Hence, on the whole, achievement under this
component can be rated modest.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional development impact of the Project may be rated as modest. After the
initial debacles, PIU took the reins of Project management with a good deal of commitment just
less than a year before the MTR when little progress was achieved for reasons beyond its control.
This needs to be appreciated in light of very discouraging compensation packages and scarce
resources for staff mobility that remained unresolved despite earlier assurances to the contrary.
The Inter-Ministerial Project specific Development Board would have been more effective had it
been formed without considerable delay and had it been empowered by HMG/N with
administrative and financial autonomy. The Project Steering Committee also would have helped
better if it could have worked with speed and flexibility, delegating critical procurement and
financial authorities to Project Director even within the existing Government regulations. PIU,
left sidetracked and away from DOHS system, was a missed opportunity to achieve much more
gains out of Project resources. Similarly, lack of donors' coordination limited outcomes especially
in MCH worker's refresher training and in quality of care aspects.
On the positive side, the capacity of PIU was effectively strengthened in Project implementation
matters, especially pioneering for Bank financed project in the sector. If the core skills at PIU
could be continued in the sector, they would be asset to MOH to handle similar Projects in future
with minimal external assistance. Such positive gains, however, would need to be nurtured for
some time before they may be fully institutionalized and sustainable.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Frequent changes in government. Between 1991 and 2000 the country saw a record 11
changes in government. The perennial changes in senior officials in MOH, DOHS, and PIU, with
as many as 11 health ministers and 7 health secretaries, played a significant part in slowing
-9-



decision making and delaying implementation.
Poor donor coordination. Suboptimal coordination among the donors-and, in most cases,
between the donors and the Government with lack of a common coordination forum -hampered
the donors' contribution. Poor donor coordination occurred, for example, in assessing financing
gaps and future needs and contributed to prolonged preparatory phase. And donor agencies often
provided daily allowances that were significantly higher than Government rates, creating a
disincentive for service providers and supervisors for the Project.
Although in part beyond the Government's control, the poor coordination was also in part
attributable to the Government, and to some extent by Bank's country management and sectoral
team to facilitate its improvement. This deficiency of effective mechanisms for donor coordination
was a major factor limiting incomplete utilization of Project resources and results were mixed
such as; Project offered resources for refresher training of MCH workers remained unused due to
lack of donor coordination and collaboration by the concemed division of DOHS led to inaction,
resulting a huge backlog of refresher training, in contrast, the donor coordination in logistics
management training can be considered best practice. Thanks to close collaboration in sharing
resources and expertise, nearly 9,000 people received training through a joint effort by the Project
and John Snow International/USAID, in conjunction with the DOHS Logistics Management
Division and the National Health Training Center. In addition, about a dozen mid-level
warehouse managers of MOH received international training.
Slow procurement. IDA's centralized decision making for procurement early in the Project
slowed procurement and disbursement clearances, contributing to delay in implementation.
Delegation of considerable procurement authority to the Bank's field office in Kathmandu midway
through the Project accelerated procurement clearance in civil works. And ready access to Bank
procurement staff enabled PIU to develop an innovative approach for decentralized construction
in the Project's last two years, without risks of misprocurement.
Security problems. The Maoist insurgency in rural areas and remote districts delayed
construction work by some contractors. As the situation worsened, it limited required site visits
by Government and Project officials, consultants, and the IDA Task Team.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in appointing MCH workers. Civil service regulations restricting the appointment of
regular MCH workers as well as the Public Service Commission ordering discontinuation of
services of temporary ones led to absence of these staff in many Sub-Health Posts. The process
for regularization of the temporary staff and new appointment against the vacancies started to
take place only after a long process.
Constraints on field operations support. Although institutionalized as integrated supervision
with a high-level commitment by MOH, field operations support never adequately materialized.
Despite persistent follow-up at the highest levels of the Government, the low daily allowance and
revised field travel allowance from 5 to 12 miles continued to restrict the field movement of the
service providers and supervisors supported by the Project. However, in reality, it was rather
- 10 -



ambitious to expect Government to address such issues in a sectoral project. Assurance given by
the Government during design of the Project did not materialize and perhaps Bank vouched much
more on it. Because such matters need to be dealt in cross sector civil service reform initiatives
and/or through similar health programs where donors agree to fund in a combined approach,
enhancing cross support which may take some more years to build up in Nepal.
Lack of timely and adequate counterpart funds. Lack of counterpart funds in specific project
inputs was a problem especially in the Project's final years, when implementation and funding
requirements were heavy. And it precluded procurement of additional goods out of savings from
the Credit that were requested by MOH six months before Project closing.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Inefficient management structure. The three-tiered Project management system -- the
Development Board, the Steering Committee, and the PIU, with the latter isolated from the
DOHS -- limited the mainstreaming of Project inputs and required extra efforts by both the PIU
and IDA to establish a working partnership with DOHS. As mentioned in the preceding sections,
the establishment of the Interministerial Development Board was a mechanism agreed to enhance
addressing intersectoral concerns in population matters, civil works and to take care of
sustainability concerns. The board was formed just before MTR with substantial delay. Although
the board took an active role for accelerating implementation, its lack of administrative and
financial autonomy precluded it from addressing issues relating to appointments, staff
compensation, and the daily allowance. Despite the field operations support input, the limited
authority of Board did not allow provisions for higher level of daily allowances to supervisors to
be made out of the proceeds of the credit.
Frequent changes in key MOH personnel. The turnover among MOH policy makers and
senior officials delayed implementation and disbursement especially in pre-MTR period.
Personnel strengths. During and post MTR period was staged by significant leadership, strong
teamwork, staff development opportunities, and continuity of the Project Director and core
Project staff which were strongly positive factors in the accelerated implementation of the Project,
the well-planned procurement and distribution of goods, the best practice coordination of logistics
management training, and the efforts to mainstream Project inputs with DOHS divisions. These
factors also helped to sustain the collaborative partnership with the IDA Task Team. Most of the
core Project staff had adequate skills, reinforced by in-service training facilitated by the Project in
and outside the country.
Effective financial and procurement management. Overall, financial management in the
Project met best practice standards, a substantial achievement given the more than 100 cost
centers across 75 districts. The asset registers in some cost centers reflected uneven practices,
and monitoring and supervision of PIU accountants at district cost centers were limited, mainly
because of inadequate staffing and the low daily allowance for travel. But all accounting records
were satisfactorily maintained, complying with Government regulations, with requirements for
monitoring the Credit, in the district health offices, being guided by the Project's accounts
manual. All accounting information is computerized, and a good internal control system allows
- 1 1 -



cross-checking and proper verification of transactions. Compliance with the auditing covenant
was timely.
Procurement management was another success story. In procurement of medical equipment,
goods, and vehicles, effective planning and management led to savings of nearly 45 percent of the
estimated price, allowing procurement and supply of far larger quantities than originally planned.
In civil works, too, procurement was cost-effective, with exploration of alternative options-
innovative construction packages, local contracting resources, decentralized management of
construction-helping to improve the quality and speed the completion of work. Judicious use of
monitoring consultants to complement the small PIU staff also expedited the work and ensured its
quality.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Estimated at US$39.0 million at appraisal, the Project was to be financed by a Government
contribution of US$12.3 million and an IDA credit of US$26.7 million equivalent (SDR 19.4
million). Total disbursement of the Credit as of June 7, 2001 is noted to be US$23.87 million
(91.7%), with a savings of US$2.025 million. Credit proceeds were reallocated to increase
fLunding for civil works, consultants, and Project operating costs. The savings stem mainly from
revision in the scope of civil works during the MTR, foreign exchange gains in the conversion of
SDRs to local currency for local competitive bidding, and efficiency and economy in procurement.
In fact, Government's contribution to the project has been to an extent of US$ 13.73 million
exceeding the above committed amount. However, this cost was significantly inflated due to
increase in salary of MCH workers and civil servants as a whole.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Project's achievements is rated unlikely mostly due to:
Buget: Before Project closing the budgetary implications were worked out in detail, and the
Government confirmed that the necessary allocations would be reflected in future budgets. But as
of today ( June 25, 2001), government did not allocate the required budget (about Nepali rupees
11 million ( Annex 8, table 5) for the remainder of the fiscal year (January to July 16 of FY01) as
agreed with key government officials (MOH, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the National
Planning Commission (NPC)) during the final supervision mission of the Project. This additional
allocation was needed to meet critical non-salary recurrent expenditure for transportation of
essential supplies, maintenance of vehicles, field operation support and health MIS. Nevertheless,
MOH and NPC have proposed budget estimates for FY02 for this purpose (Nepali rupees of
59.98 million). The Government budget for FY02 has yet to be placed before the parliament.
The exact status of finally approved amount will be made public by the red book (budget book) in
July 2001.
There has been no visible mechanism put in place yet to ensure retention of the core skills and the
institutional mechanism created in project in the areas of: management skills; procurement of
- 12 -



works goods and services within PIU; and in financial management matters.
The large number of health facilities constructed and renovated under the project finance would
need to be functional with critical staffing, drugs, supplies and field operation support. During the
entire Project implementation period these matters have been brought into attention of the
government agencies. But, there has not been much improvement over the period. Although,
position of MCH workers has been substantially filled up and the paramedical staff were
increasingly in position in outlying health facilities ( Annex 8: Table - 4), the doctors position have
been observed mostly vacant in most of PHCCs.
However, the sound storage, distribution and logistic management support and skills delivered by
the project is a most effective contribution followed by the large network of well furnished health
facilities with supply of necessary medical equipment and staff quarters to provide increased
service coverage and enhance access with improvement in quality of care supported by integrated
monitoring and supervision system, backed by a health MIS, which have been irnstitutionalized
under the MOH system. In addition, the Project carried out a pilot study on community
monitoring and supervision in five districts, an option that MOH needs to explore along with
other innovative approaches to monitoring and supervision. The newly constructed and
renovated facilities will need no major maintenance for the next 10-15 years.
It is difficult to sustain institutional changes with one project. There is need for continued
engagement to sustain the policy dialogue and institutionalize reforms started in the project.
However, some of the short term gains include building the capacities of district accountants and
regular MOH staff in the PIU is well recognized.
Once MOH can ensure full staffing and utilization of the health facilities, they will be able to
generate user fees that can help support maintenance and replenishment of drugs and supplies.
The Project's Outcome Assessment Studies, along with DOHS annual reports and health MIS
records for 1994-2000, indicate that the distribution system developed by the Project for essential
supplies will improve service utilization and client satisfaction.
There are also potential risks to the sustainability of the Project: slackening of the Government
and MOH commitment that led to the Project's success after the MTR; inadequate budgetary
support; constraints on the deployment of doctors, and failure to address the limits imposed by the
low daily allowance on outreach work by health workers and supervisors. Any of these issues, if
not satisfactorily resolved, would limit the Project's achievements, and the Nepal health team
needs to continue to focus on them in the ongoing policy dialogue and any new lending activities.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Several important steps have been taken to ensure that key activities are sustained beyond the
Project period within an integrated primary health care program:
* Utilization of the physical infrastructure provided by the Project has improved. MOH can
ensure full utilization by deploying the full contingent of staff needed in outreach facilities. A
- 13-



maintenance system has been designed but needs to be operationalized.
*  A plan of action has been drawn up for handing the Project assets over to DOHS.
*  The Government has recognized assured support to key public health interventions as a policy
priority. Its Second Long-Term Health Plan specifies that this support will be protected in
public investment spending, and this is reflected in the Ninth Five-Year Plan, in MOH's work
on the Medium-Term Strategic Plan to operationalize the Second Long-Term Health Plan,
and in NPC's work on the Public Expenditure Review and Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper. The Bank's sector work has also clearly reinforced the need for sustainable
strategies for health development in Nepal.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending development was generally appropriate and effective. During
Project preparation Bank staff assisted the Government in articulating a clear strategic direction
for Project components and outreach FP/MCH services linked to its health policy and sector
plans. The Project was informed by lessons from the field investigations. No financial analyst or
financial management specialist participated during project preparation or appraisal, or in the first
3-4 years of project implementation, as is now required under Bank procedures. Implementation
during the project's first three years was negligible, with less than 8% of the IDA Credit disbursed.
Other than the early shortcomings in financial management the early delays were due to factors
which were difficult to anticipate--particularly the rapid political changes immediately after project
effectiveness and the consequent management and project staff mobility. Performance improved
substantially after the MTR. A financial management specialist was included on all supervision
mission from November 1998 until project completion.
7.2 Supervision:
Thirteen full IDA supervision missions assessed progress and assisted project implementation.
Nevertheless, the initial period of implementation, as discussed, was unsatisfactory. Initially,
technical and institutional support from supervision missions was inadequate to deal with the
complex institutional and donor relationship issues and for formative project management
capacities in MOH. Expeditious guidance on procurement matters and help in easing intersectoral
constraints on implementation could have reduced delays.
The MTR was instrumental in the Project's final success. It was understood by all parties that a
failure to reach agreement on a restructured project and related improvements to implementation
arrangements would result in cancellation of the project. During the two-phase process spread
over four months IDA developed demanding time-bound action plans in full partnership with the
Borrower, all of which were complied with. More progress was made in resolving long-pending
issues in these four months than in the previous three years, putting the Project fully on course. A
decision was made to decentralize supervision to the field office and establish a capacity to
provide continuous advice on all project matters (including procurement and financial
- 14 -



management). Aide-memoire and supervision reports gave regular updates on Project output,
outcome, and impact indicators (though, following the norms of the time, no indicators were
specifically designed during preparation). Joint IDA-PIU field visits to the Project sites helped in
identifying and resolving problems promptly. In later years the formal supervision team included
senior officials from MOH, NPC, and MOF. This practice, pioneered in the Project, supported
efforts to mainstream Project inputs, increase the level of ownership of project objectives in the
central agencies and help ensure project sustainability.
The Bank's Quality Assurance Group rated the Project a "problem project and at risk" until the
fifth year of implementation, even after progress accelerated. The Project was therefore assessed
twice for quality of supervision, in FY00 and FY01  (QSA-3 and 4). The IDA Task Team used
the Project's status to create a dialogue with the Borrower and strengthen its political
commitment and implementation efforts. The QSA-4 panel rated the quality of supervision as
satisfactory and identified several aspects of best practice-in particular, the focus on
development effectiveness in supervision and the quality and adequacy of reporting. Strong
aspects of supervision included staff continuity and integration of different skills into a coherent
team, well supported by sector and country management. According to the QSA-4 panelists, "
supervision was very well planned, and aide-memoires and correspondence were of high quality,
offering clear guidance to the Borrower. Financial management, an important component of
effective supervision in this context, was well handled and documented."
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The early delays were due to a combination of factors, most beyond the Bank's control and some
beyond the Government's. Endless political changes and staff turnover, systemic problems in
decision making, and macroeconomic constraints on counterpart funding all seriously impeded
start-up. At all times the Bank maintained a close working relationship with the Government, at
both Project and ministerial levels, and with donor agencies. Supervision missions were proactive
and supportive-maintaining flexibility and clear priorities, bench-marking progress against
demanding time tables, and resolving problems in a persistent and positive manner. Most
important, Bank supervision was ongoing rather than limited to formal semi-annual missions,
leading to consistent improvement in Project management. Country and sector management
remained concerned with successful implementation and future mainstreaming and sustainability.
And the field office's competent financial and procurement management team did much to help
expedite implementation. Over all performance of Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was a lengthy process. The political change of 1990, the new health policy of
1991, the indecisiveness among some stakeholders about accepting this first IDA credit in the
health sector-all compounded the delay. In the mean time, the new Government has accepted
the agenda of reducing poverty, slowing population growth, and improving integrated service
delivery in outlying areas as national priorities. Hence, the Government, especially MOH, took
full ownership of the preparation process. A participatory study involving extensive situation
analysis, consideration of options, and project proposals, carried out by seven working groups
- 15 -



under MOH leadership, provided a sound analytical base for Project preparation. For the first
time, comprehensive analysis of the sector's resource needs was done, bringing together all the
stakeholders in the international donors meeting in 1993. Through several iterative processes and
a series of consultations with the Bank, the Borrower was able to negotiate a US$26.7 million
IDA credit for the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The series of political and administrative changes-resulting in turnover among key officials and
varying commitment to the Project-adversely affected implementation. But the MTR
resurrected the Project, with the Government forming the long-pending Development Board (just
before the MTR), delegating procurement authority to the PIU director, and hiring key staff and
consultants.
Integrating PIU into DOHS early in the implementation would have increased the role of DOHS
in strengthening health service delivery in outlying areas; however, PIU's integration into DOHS
gradually improved later in the Project. Timely availability of counterpart funding remained a
problem, especially during the Project's last two years, when resource requirements were heavy.
Mainstreaming of the Project inputs, although mapped in the MOH work plan, will remain a
challenge, since it requires increasing allocations in the Government's recurrent budget.
7.6 Imiplementing Agency:
The performance of PIU has been noteworthy. Once PIU gained procurement and financial
authority, its core technical staff proved competent in procuring works, goods, and consultants
and in logistics and financial management backed up by support from DOHS and MOH. The
Project team in the PIU maintained a strong commitment to supporting implementation, despite
the many constraints. The Project adopted innovative practices to expedite implementation,
especially in carrying out civil works contracts, and successfully completed most of the activities
while exceeding many physical targets.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Despite the early setbacks, the Project outputs are fully in place and have begun to produce
positive results. After serious implementation delays before the MTR, some of which were
beyond its control, the Borrower not only significantly improved implementation but exceeded
targets in several areas. Thus, in the end, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Both positive and negative lessons emerged from the Project.
Institutional:
* Incrementally stepping up efforts to strengthen the planning and implementation capacity of
MOH and PIU had enormous dividends for the Project and for MOH's ability to design and
implement similar prograrns in the future with minimal external assistance.
- 16-



* From an early stage, the unfamiliarity of program managers and policymakers with the PIU's
role of coordinating Project inputs for appropriate programs limited support to them from the
Project. Emphasis should have been given to PIU's role as a facilitator for MOH programs
rather than as an implementing authority.
* Early involvement of a financial management specialist at the time of project identification and
preparation to ensure that a sound project financial management system is in place at project
start up, including the training of a project accountant and the development of an accounting
manual defining the project's financial systems and procedures, is essential for sound project
financial management.
* The location of project management may need to shift over time. For the Project, the MOH
Planning Division was a more strategic setting during identification, preparation and design,
nevertheless DOHS plays a key role in design as future implementing agency. Hence, as
experienced in this Project (role of DOHS was more critical during implementation), in future
Bank project DOHS should be playing key role in implementation to take into account of full
mainstreaming with necessary stakeholders, as well as to look into matters of coordination
and ensuring sound implementation during design phase.
* The PIU alone was too small to achieve the demanding development objectives. Thus
Government ownership of Project-related efforts was critical, reinforced by regular
intersectoral consultations and coordination by the Borrower and Bank management.
3 Free land is not always the best located or most cost effective. Facilities constructed on
marginal land donated by the Government, local community, or individuals were often more
expensive to build on because of the cost involved in site development and retention.
Technical and Social
* Staff security is a critical consideration in the location of a health facility. Staff quarters
constructed for female auxiliary nurse-midwives in isolated locations may remain underused or
even unused, hampering service delivery.
*  Adequate consultations with communities from an early planning stage was inadequate in this
Project. Improved community consultations would have been critical to gain their ownership
and support, whether for the quality of construction, improved quality of care, or maintenance
of health facilities. Hence, involvement of community in site selection and monitoring works
as well as in service delivery is critical. Such engagement may delay work programs,
especially in a project of shorter duration, but is worth the effort. In such situation, realistic
planning is needed to avoid front loading of the project and to give adequate time to build
community relationship.
* Innovations such as decentralized construction of 40 health facilities and joint review missions
involving senior government officers from finance and planning commission go a long way in
- 17 -



solving local problems and enhancing ownership. Such practices need to be encouraged in the
region.
*  Delivery of health care does not automatically follow from infrastructure and logistics support
alone. Much more important are skilled staff, supplies, supportive supervision, and frequent
interaction with, and ownership by, local people.
*  While male and female clients were equally represented at HPs, more females than males used
PHCCs despite greater distances and higher drug costs. This could be more available service
options and better quality in PHCCs. And this also indicates and confirms the general findings
that women prefer female service providers, more of whom were available at PHCCs ( Annex
8; Table 4).
*  A pilot study at 15 sub-health posts in 5 districts found that community-based monitoring and
supervision are effective as long as the community is involved and has formed a partnership
with the service providers. Community involvement in management of sub-health posts had
positive effects on staff retention, timely reporting for duty, reorganization of available
resources, preparation of a data board with important vital statistics, continued drug supplies,
information sharing, and, most important, client satisfaction.
Operational:
*  The responsiveness of the Bank's approach to the new democratic Government's aspirations
as stated in the National Health Policy of 1991, helped to ensure that the Project focused on
prior'ties.
3  Attention to complementary program efforts and aid coordination is critical in ensuring
optimal use of resources. The collaboration with partners on logistics management training
was a major success. In contrast, poor donor coordination precluded the much-needed
refresher training for MCH workers, even though the Project had the budget for it.
* The teamwork established between the Bank Task Team and Govemnment officials through
ongoing Bank review and support helped to salvage the Project implementation.
*  The well-planned MTR was critical in eliminating the bottlenecks in the Project
implementation with a threat of cancellation.
*  The delegation of appropriate financial, procurement, and administrative authority to the
Project director was instrumental in expediting Project implementation.
*  The flexibility built into the Project allowed demand-driven adjustments and, together with a
supportive environment and close monitoring, led to outputs that in several cases exceeded
targets. The best example of a demand-driven effort was expansion of the cold chain facilities.
Although not originally planned, the effort provided very effective support for the
immunization program and ongoing polio eradication initiatives.
- 18 -



* Openness to alternative options for implementing civil works proved cost-effective and
efficient. After a review of different strategies, the most appropriate ones were adopted,
helping to expedite completion of construction and renovation.
*  Staff continuity on the Bank's Task Team throughout the Project and in PIU for the past four
and a half years helped in retaining institutional memory and building an effective partnership.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
February 12, 2001
Nepal Population and Family Health Project
Credit No. 2600-NEP
Borrower's Evaluation
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
(Prepared by Ministry of Health, Project Implementation Unit and endorsed by Ministry of Health.)
1.   Introduction and Objectives
The six year Population and Family Health Project (PFHP) commenced in 1994 within the
context of unfavorable demographic indicators and poor health infrastructure. A new Health
Policy was formulated in 1991, and in order to address and identify the largely unmet health
service needs of Nepalese people, several need assessment missions, working groups and the
World Bank and the government commissioned studies were carried out. Detailed financing plan
of the Project was developed based on the input of Health Resources Allocation study and
international donors' meeting. A resource envelope of US$ 39 million was determined with the
IDA credit component of US $ 26.7 million.
The Project's goal was to support the Government's efforts to increase contraceptive prevalence
and decrease the total fertility rate (TFR), help to reduce maternal and child morbidity and
mortality, and to raise life expectancy. In order to attain these goals, the Project aimed to
increase coverage, access, quality and coverage of FP/MCH services, improve the functions of
grass-root health facilities, and enhance Government's institutional capacity in particular to
implement comprehensive FP and MCH programs effectively.
2.    Overall Achievements
The reports published by MOH, project status reports, WB supervision mission reports and
Project commissioned component wise End Line Studies very strongly substantiate that the
Project has contributed to attain the government's efforts to increase CPR and decrease TFR,
reduce maternal and child morbidity and mortality, and to raise life expectancy. For instance,
IMR has decreased from 107 in 1991 to 74.7 in 1997; CPR has increased from 21.3% in 1994/95
to 34.5% in 1999. The life expectancy has increased from 53 in 1991 to 58.3 in 1999.
- 19 -



In terms of specific objectives of the Project, the construction and renovation of large number of
health facilities, as per the target, all over the country including some in very remote mountain
areas has increased the access of the deprived rural people to the health services. The service
utilization, and infrastructure development assessment studies highlight several instances where
the access to and utilization of health services has increased after the construction of and
equipping health facilities with, inter alia, drugs and contraceptives supplies, and providing them
management support. Construction of 215 and renovation of 332 health facilities has been
successfully completed within 4 years despite slow start of project activities. Due to construction
of warehouses by the Project, storage capacity of MOH has increased substantially and cold room
capacity by more than twofold to reach to 492.42 cubic meters. The warehouses have been
equipped with storage and computer equipment, and critical medical equipment have been
supplied to 525 facilities though 255 were planned. Utilization of health services has increased;
the number of OPD visits in the health facilities has increased from 4.49 million in 1994/95 to 7.1
million in 199/00, Antenatal first visit by pregnant women has increased to 35% of expected
pregnancies up from 15.5% in 1994/95, deliveries conducted by trained persons has increased to
13.5% 1999/00 up from 3.1 in 1994/95. These positive trends have occurred due to construction
and renovation of health facilities, provision of medical equipment, supervision and monitoring
support and institutional capacity development of MOH. Capacity building of MOH has occurred
as a result of putting several project components in the right array and beginning to deliver
mutually enabling effect out of each sub-components. The Project has supported several
institutional development efforts such as HMIS, development of CTCs, maintenance capacity
building of the facilities and project management. Collection of service statistics, processing and
reviewing health programs' performance annually based on those health information have been
initiated and eventually institutionalized. This has laid a solid basis for bottom up planning. One
of the very important contribution of the Project is development of integrated supervision and
monitoring encompassing system, check list and procedures, which has made supervision and
monitoring system an institutional process, an already overdue critical factor in view of integration
of health services more than a decade before. The project implementation process itself has been
an institutional capacity building experience in real sense as MOH, for the first time, has
implemented a project of this nature and scale successfully.
In terms of financial management, the Project will have spent 92% of the total allocated amount at
the end of the Project. This has to be considered at satisfactory level considering just an
expenditure of 7.1 % at the MTR stage.
The Project has to be considered very successful in terms of construction of health facilities,
provision of logistics, and integration of supervision and monitoring system in the health care
services. However, deployment of doctors and health workers including trained MCH workers in
the health facilities still remains a formidable challenge. Sustainability and mainstreaming of
Project initiatives by HMG/Nepal, such as retention of technical and management skills developed
by PIU staff, provision of core staffing and budget to health facilities, effective maintenance of
physical infrastructure and equipment, institutionalization of integrated monitoring and
supervision system, are the challenges, which will affect the benefits of the Project and will be
derived in the years to come.
- 20 -



3.    Borrower's and Bank's Performance
3.1   Performance of MOH and PIU
PFHP is the first credit Project implemented by MOH. As such, it took about 18 months to
establish PIU, and also a great deal of time and efforts to provide orientation to the officials on
IDA Project management, procurement and financial system and procedures. The formation of
Board with full authority to decide on policy and operational issues of the Project, on June 27,
1997 by the cabinet under the chairmnanship of Minister of Health and comprising senior officials
of MOH, Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Department of Housing and Physical
Planning was a landmark decision for laying a solid basis for successful implementation of the
Project. The working procedures of the Board and the authorities and responsibilities of the
Project Director were established and implemented. Before the formation of Board and
delegation of authority to the Project Director, most of the decisions were taken by the Ministry
through ordinary channels thus procrastinating the decision at times. The formation of Board not
only accelerated the Project implementation, but also facilitated inter-ministerial co-ordination and
collaboration. The commitment of MOH to ensure the continuity of the Project Director also
contributed to the satisfactory performance of the Project. The Department of Health Services
and the program divisions were responsive to the demands of broader program approach, which
ensured inclusions of several needed activities within the framework of development objectives
during the Project period. The District Health Offices were also directly involved in the
infrastructure development process as MOH decentralized the construction of 40 health facilities
to the district level. This approach not only proved cost-effective compared to centralized mixed
packaging model of construction but also helped to solve local problems arising on ownership
issues.
The Ministry of Health and other departments were very responsive to the Bank's approach of
joint review missions. The senior officials of MOH, NPC and Ministry of Finance also
participated in the supervision missions, particularly during the later part of the Project. This
teamwork of MOH and the Bank, not only helped to understand the Project better, but this
participatory team approach resulted to earn sustained commitment to the Project.
Apart from more than a dozen international non-governmental organizations, UN agencies,
USAID, GTZ, UNFPA and DFID support Nepal's large part of health program. The coordination
and continuous interaction with these agencies not only helps to identify the needs and assess the
resources requirement but also helps to avoid resources overlaps. However, the Ministry could
not develop an effective mechanism of establishing coordination between the donors, technical
assistance providers, I/NGOs and private sector working in the health sector. This resulted into
lack of resources in some sectors, but at the same time having more financial assistance in another
sector. This weakness is very well recognized by the Hon. member of the Planning Commission
and Planning Division of MOH. MOH has a critical challenge of mainstreaming the Project
efforts and creating an institutional mechanism that ensures proper maintenance of the physical
facilities developed by the Project. As the Secretary, MOH rightly observed the Project starts
from January 1, 2001 for MOH, as it has to integrate several program initiatives after the Project
is closed by the end of December, 2000.
-21 -



Institutionalization of integrated supervision and monitoring at all levels-central to periphery
level-remains a formidable challenge, and supervisory skills of the staff still need to be developed.
The PIU senior team comprising Director, and sectional head-infrastructure development;
logistics; supervision and monitoring; and accounts section worked very well as a cohesive team.
The job description with clearly defined authorities and responsibilities of all PIU staff was
developed and a performance evaluation criterion established. Weekly senior management team
meeting, which reviewed the performance of the last week and discussed on the plans of the
ensuing week, was ensured during the later part of the Project which was instrumental in timely
accomplishment of the activities. A systematically assessed training need of the staff and
provision of overseas and domestic training helped to upgrade the skills of the staff, particularly in
project management, financial, procurement and contract management and computer operations.
Despite a low level of salaries and per diem rates, which resulted into high staff turnover, the staff
performed very well commensurate with the size of the Project and in accordance with the IDA
procedures. This is very well reflected in the achievements of the physical targets set and revised
from time to time and very high absorptive capacity estimated to more than 92% of the total
project budget at the end of the Project period.
As already dealt upon in the earlier paragraphs, the Project may be said as a 3 1/2 year project in
true sense in terms of timeframe of implementation of actual project activities. And it has achieved
most of its targets and plans during 3 V2 year period itself. This is really exemplary
accomplishment. The institutional capacity of MOH has been increased due to PFHP, though
there was no capacity and skills to manage credit project of this magnitude and size until the
Project was initiated.
PIU has been able to accomplish the targeted plans with a very small core team, particularly
infrastructure, with the compliment of the consultants. However, the quality of the construction
has suffered in few places due to paucity of staff to supervise the on-going construction activities.
3.2   Performance of the Bank
The role played by the Bank to make the project a successful one need not be overemphasized.
The Bank played a proactive role to develop institutional systems for implementation of this
first-ever credit project implemented by Ministry of Health. It continuously worked with the
senior officials of the Government to form a separate Development Board to steer the Project and
set up management systems of PIU and orient them through its own support and several
consultants. Experience has already proved that a separate Board was necessary with authorities
and responsibilities to implement the project of such magnitude and scale.
The World Bank played a very crucial role in initiating the project. It was not only instrumental in
undertaking the need assessment in collaboration with the Government to identify the broader
issues of population and health program in Nepal, but also working closely with the Government
in project formulation. Several studies were commissioned and Bank missions worked with
Government representatives to identify the priority health program needs and resource gaps, and
the potential components of Bank assistance to improve the health conditions and develop the
- 22 -



institutional capacity of Ministry of Health to deliver the health services. The World Bank played
a pivotal role in working with the Ministry of Health in setting up the institutional mechanism for
implementation of the Project and orienting the senior governnent officials on IDA policies and
procedures through overseas training and continuous interaction and dialogue.
During the project implementation period of six years, 13 Bank supervision missions visited
Nepal, reviewed the progress of project implementation and worked with Health Minister and
other senior Government officials in identifying the policy and implementation bottlenecks, and
provided technical assistance to overcome the difficulties. Despite very slow project
implementation during pre-MTR period, the Bank painstakingly continued to work with the
Government to make the Project a successful and a crucial need for improving Nepal's health. It
provided the services of the Architectural consultant during the IDA mission and interim
consultation, particularly in the infrastructure development who assisted the PIU staff on regular
basis. These untiring efforts slowly transferred the Project from, widely perceived by senior
officials of MOH, the 'Bank managed project' to 'MOH project' gradually, as the senior officials
of the MOH opined. The flexibility of incorporating activities based on the need of the different
program divisions also helped to secure the commitment of the senior officials of MOH to the
Project. The system of joint review mission with MOH, NPC and MOF representatives were
considered by the Government officials as highly effective in resolving implementation
bottlenecks. The mission visited many construction sites scattered allover the country-some
located in very remote areas.
The Nepal Resident Mission (RMN) of the Bank provided continuous support and technical
assistance to PIU staff. The RMN continuously worked with senior government officials to
overcome policy and implementation bottlenecks encountered by the Project. Continuity of
sector officer, during the entire Project period, also played a significant role in the satisfactory
performance of the Project.
Apart from project related assistance, the Bank also very closely worked with the Ministry of
Health and other donors in developing Nepal's long-term vision in health. It not only provided
the services of several consultants in assessing the need and identifying the issues that need to be
addressed on long-term basis, but also actually helped Ministry of Health to draft and finalize the
Long-term Health Plan (LTHP).
4.    Major factors affecting implementation and outcome
Though the Project has moved very slowly during the first phase of the Project causing a great
concern on the overall accomplishment of the expected outcomes, its pace increased significantly
in the second phase. A number of impending factors were identified by the IDA Mission Reports
and Mid-term review carried out during mid 1997. In the post-MTR stage, policy and
management problems identified from the beginning of the Project were resolved through various
measures. Formation of Development Board with required authorities and responsibilities
engineered the real take off of the Project. Establishment of separate Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), continuity of the Project Director and delegation of required authorities to him proved to
be an effective institutional mechanism and management system. The World Bank from its Head
-23 -



Quarter and Nepal Resident Mission Office provided continuous effort to resolve implementation
bottlenecks, and technical assistance contributed significantly for successful implementation of the
Project.
Towards, the initial years of the Project, PIU was not considerably familiar with Bank's
procurement procedures and its requirements, especially those for works, goods and services.
The procurement related documents forwarded from PIU to the Bank needed longer review and
comments at the Field Office itself, before it was submitted to Bank's Head Quarter for final
clearance. In this process, elapsed schedule was a concern in the Project, for bids processing.
However, over the years of Project implementation, PITJ gained significant experience and in the
mean time, the Procurement authority was decentralized to the Field Office of the Bank and it
helped substantially in clearance of procurement matters from the Bank, expediting the work
performance in the Project.
However, several factors adversely affected smooth implementation of the Project. First, the
PFHP being the most first project financed from loan money encountered several problems at the
take off stage itself due to lack of experience of MOH to implement credit projects in the health
sector. Second, lack of line authority of PIU and accountability of DOHS to PIU was also
responsible for poor perforrnance, such as non-submission of financial reports on time. Third,
though land was donated for construction of new health facilities throughout the country, as per
the policy of the Government, many sites were inappropriate in terms of area, accessibility and
appropriate construction site. Lack of mechanism for involvement of the community in the site
selection and construction supervision and monitoring resulted into conflicts in several places
delaying the project implementation. Inappropriate sites not only raised the construction and
consultancy cost, but did discourage community involvement and trust. The adaptation process
became almost re-designing one. And engagement of same consultants for design and supervision
and monitoring comprehensive work proved to be a weak internal control mechanism, not
providing an opportunity of unearthing any weakness in the earlier process.
5.    Sustainability and Mainstreaming of Project Initiatives
Since the long-term success of the Project depends largely on the sustainability of Project efforts
by the Government, it is already planning to ensure the financial, technical and institutional
sustainability of the Project initiatives after the IDA funding comes to an end in December 2000.
Integration of Project initiatives is a main challenge that will be addressed carefully. The most
critical areas of sustainability are:
a)    Retention of technical, operational, management and procurement skills developed by
PIU: The Project has incurred significant amount of resources in terms of time, efforts and
money to develop the skills of PIU staff. Most of the senior staffs of PIU have received overseas
training on contract management, financial management and procurement management. And a
significant amount of financial resources has been invested in local training also. While care
should be taken to place the four core permanent HMG staffs in the appropriate job in the future,
a roster of resource pool listing other temporary and contractual staffs has been maintained. This
trained team may be use for similar nature of projects in the future.
- 24 -



b)    Ensure core staffing and operational budgets of Health Facilities: While the health
facilities constructed will, as the studies have suggested, contribute towards retaining technical
staff, this alone will not, however, guarantee the retention of technical staff particularly doctors.
Experience has proved that raising of salary and benefits by even up to 400% does not solve this
chronic problem. The study commissioned recently by PIUJ has shown that many health facilities
do not have critical manpower, options will be explored for retention of key technical officials
including doctors in the PHCCs and other health facilities
c)    Training and Deployment of MCH Workers: Though with the plan to train 250 MCH
workers in the current year will complete the basic training, 650 MCH Workers are still
temporary awaiting permanent appointment. Apart from these issues, the systems of upgrading
their skills through refresher training will be institutionalized through inter aila, budgetary
provisions. About 662 workers have been provided refresher training.
d)    Effective maintenance and utilization ofphysical infrastructure and equipment: The
medical equipment supplied by the Project will require replacement and regular repair, for which
adequate operational budget has to be provided for. Effective maintenance and utilization of
physical infrastructure needs priority attention. An appropriate and effective institutional
mechanism for regular monitoring of physical condition of health facilities combined with regular
budgetary provision will be arranged.
e)    Integrated monitoring and supervision system: Integrated supervision and monitoring
system initiated by the Project will be sustained by mainstreaming in MOH system. There are
mainly three issues that would warrant priority attention to sustain the momentum; first,
integration of supervision and monitoring system in the regional, district and periphery level,
second, provision of adequate budget, third, appropriate policies encouraging supervision visits.
Additional resources that needs to be provided for the current year falls short by NRs. 8.5 million
for the supervision and monitoring system, MOH has already processed with NPC and MOF for
additional allocation as well as that required for next fiscal year.
fi    Transportation Cost and HMIS: Transportation cost of contraceptives and medicine will
have to be provided by the Government. Further, in order to have HMIS in place, 76% of the
total budget financed through IDA component amounting to NRs. 8.6 million will be provided for
in Next MOH budget.
6.    Key lessons learnt
Several lessons have been learnt from the Project implementation. Some of the key lessons learnt
are: First, for successful implementation of the Project there is a need to have flexibility in the
project design, which will allow incorporation of activities, based on the identified needs and
revise resource allocation. Second, separate Development Board with authorities and
responsibilities to steer the Project is very effective to implement such time bound projects.
Alternatively a separate unit within Department of Health Services may also increase its
acceptance particularly in the districts, as an authority and help to institutionalize project efforts.
- 25 -



Third, construction and renovation of large number of health facilities scattered in various
geographical locations of the country may be accomplished by small size of core staff with the
compliment of consultants. Based on the initial experience, it was also learnt that the
Consultants' terns and conditions need to be properly developed so that they are also made
responsible for any performance lapses, poor construction quality and delayed performance. It is
also learned from implementation experience that the consulting firm developing the design should
be independent from supervision and monitoring. Fourth, experience has proved that instead of
large size scattered packaging, it is appropriate to make small clustered packaging, with
decentralized management to the districts. Fifth, a systematic need assessment should be done
before supplying the medical equipment. Sixth, interagency collaboration is crucial for effective
performance of logistics management system. Seventh, sustained commitment of high level
officials with adequate daily allowance is critical for effective monitoring and supervision at all
management level and service delivery. Eighth, involvement of community representatives to
manage and supervise local health facilities assures increased utilization of services and better
management of health institutions. Ninth, development of accounting manual defining the system
and procedures governing the financial management of the Project, and training the accountants is
important for effective financial management.
One of the key lessons learnt is that due to successful implementation of six year PFHP effectively
within 3 1/2 years, the institutional capacity of MOH has enhanced significantly able to manage
such a big project - with MOH professional staffs complimented by national consultants unlike
other aid-projects where there are several expatriate consultants and advisers. The MOH rates
this Project as highly successful, and that has paved the way of designing, planning and
implementing other big programs or Project required to provide health services to the needy
people of Nepal.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (%)                     31                     During the Project period (July 1994 -
(Outcome) (See Footnote 1)                                                   December 2000) contraceptve prevalence
increased from 21.3% to 34.5% ( Health
MIS reports 1994/95 and 1999/00, while
SAR has recorded R as 23 % during design
phase.)
Total Fertility Rate Unit (birth per woman)           4                      During project period, the total fertility rate
(Impact)                                                                     per woman fell from 5.8 to 4.6 (NFHS, 1996)
Matemal Mortality Rate/i 000 live births              4                      The matemal mortality ratio fell from 8.5 per
((Impact)                                                                    1,000 live births in 1991 to 5.4 in 1996
(NFHS, 1996).
Average expectancy of life (in years)                65                      Life expectancy is estimated to have
(Impact)                                                                    increased from 53 years in 1991 to more
than 58 in 1999 (as recorded by Ministry of
Population and Environment)
Infant Mortality Rate/I 000 live births             50                       As recorded in Governmenfs Ninth Five Year
(Impact)                                                                     Plan document in 1997, the infant mortality
rate declined from 107 per 1,000 live births in
1991 to less than 75 per 1,000 live births in
1997.
Under 5 Mortality Rate/i 000 live births            70                       Between 1991 and 1996 under-five mortality
(impact)                                                                    fell from 197 per 1,000 live births to 118
(NPC, 1997)
Utilization of services - Number of New OPD  Data not available              7,036,459 (Annual Report, DOHS, 1999/00)
cases (No. of patients)
(Outcome)
Deliveries conducted by trained persons (%) Data not available               13.5% (Annual Report, DOHS, 1999/00)
(Outcome)
Antenatal first visits by pregnant women (%) Data not available              35.0% (Annual Report, DOHS, 1999(00)
Health Post/Primary Health Care Centers    Data not available                95.5% (Annual Report, DOHS, 1999/00)
reporting MIS (%)
(Outcome)
Sub Health Posts reporting MIS (%)    Data not available                     92.0% (Annual Report, DOHS, 1999/00)
Note:
I) The project had as its only formal indicator the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate. From the mid-term review HMG and
the Bank agreed to informally monitor the other five documented indicators.
2) Messages in parenthesis of Actuail/Latest Estimate column are the source of data.
- 27 -



Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Civil works construction completed (Sites)   215                              216 + 332 R (see footnote 1)
Medical equipment for facilities (No. of  540                                 525
facilities)
Equipment supply to Regional Medical   11                                     11
Stores (No. of Medical Stores)
Training in integrated supervision (central,   600                            647
regional & district level staff) (No. of trainees)
Training in Logistics and Financial    9,812                                  9,010
Management (No. of trainees)
Sub Health Posts with MCH Workers (No. of 3,200                               2,793
MCH Workers)
MCH Workers given basic training       3,200                                  3,100
MCH Workers given 45 days refresher    3,200                                  662
training
No. of Outreach Clinics serving 3,915 VDCs 133,900                            105,920
End of project
Note:
1) Repair & Maintenance
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a. Project Costs by Components
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Component          Appraisal Estimate ActualULatest Estimate Percentage or Appraisal
A. Outreach Service Delivery
MCH Workers                                   8.90                  8.87                  99.66
Health Posts                                 12.00                 14.46                 120.50
Primary Health Care Centers                   4.10                  4.48                 109.27
Field Operation Support                       7.20                  4.39                  60.97
Sub Tota              32.20                 32.20                  100.00
B. FP/MCH Clinical Unit                          1.80                  0.52                  28.89
C. Logistics & Supplies
Store Construction Rennovation                0.50                 0.93                  186.00
Supplies Transport                            0.40                 0.00                    0.00
Warehouse - Furniture                         0.00                  0.12
Vehicle                                       0.00                  0.31
Monitoring Equipment                          0.00                  0.22
Field Operation Support                       0.30                 0.00*                   0.00
Sub Tota               1.20                  1.58                  131.67
D. Institutional Development
Management Information System                 1.20                  0.66                  55.00
Clinical Training Centers                     0.10                  0.13                 130.00
Maintenance Capacity Development              0.10                  0.01                  10.00
Project Management                            2.40                  2.50                 104.17
Sub Tota               3.80                  3.30                   86.84
GRAND TOTAL                  39.00                 37.60                   96.41
*This expense is incorporated in Outreach Service Delivery- Field Operation Support
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
i                Procurement Method
i   Expenditure Category         ICB                                          N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB       ~~Other'    _ _  _ _        _ _ _ _ _
1 .Works                         0.00           14.90          0.30           0.00           15.20
(0.00)        (13.40)         (0.30)         (0.00)        (13.70)
2. Goods                         3.00           0.20           0.40            0.00          3.60
(3.00)         (0.20)         (0.20)         (0.00)         (3.40)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           1.40           0.00           1.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.40)         (0.00)         (1.40)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00           0.40           0.00           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)         (0.00)         (0.40)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           18.40          0.00           18.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (7.80)         (0.00)         (7.80)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         3.00           15.10          20.90          0.00           39.00
________=______________        (3.00)          (13.60)        (10.10)         (0.00)       (26.70)
This Annex is 2b
Project Costs b Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICBCB B                      Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           18.83          0.00           0.00          18.83
(0.00)        (15.64)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (15.64)
2. Goods                         1.76           0.30           0.32           0.00          2.38
(1.63)         (0.27)         (0.29)         (0.00)        (2.19)
3. Services                      0.00           1.40           0.20           0.00          1.60
(0.00)         (1.40)         (0.20)        (0.00)         (1.60)
4. Training                      0.00           0.39           0.00           0.00          0.39
(0.00)         (0.38)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.38)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           14.40          0.00          14.40
(0.00)        (0.00)         (4.06)        (0.00)         (4.06)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         1.76          20.92           14.92          0.00          37.60
( 1.63)       (17.69)         (4.55)         (0.00)       (23.87)
This Annex is 2b
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 30 -



Annex 2c.1. Project Financing by Component
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Component          Appraisal Estimale  Actual Latest Estimatc Percentage of Appraisal
IDA  HMGIN Total  IDA  H        :MG/  Total  IDA  IHMG/.N  Total
A. Outreach Service Delivery
MCH Workers                         0    8.90   8.90   0.00   8.87   8.87      0  99.66   99.66
Health Posts                     10.80    1.20  12.00  12.12   2.34  14.46  112.22 195.00  120.50
Primary Health Care Centers      3.70    0.40   4.10   3.77   0.71   4.48  101.89 177.50  109.27
Field Operation Support          6.10    1.00   7.10   3.09   1.30  4.39  50.66 130.00   61.83
Sub Total         20.60   11.50  32.10  18.98  13.22  32.20  92.14 114.96  100.31
B. FP/MCH Clinical Unit             1.60    0.20   1.80   0.44   0.08   0.52  27.50  40.00   28.89
C. Logistics & Supplies
Store Construction Renovation    0.40    0.10   0.50   0.77   0.16   0.93  192.50 160.00  186.00
Supplies Transport               0.30    0.10   0.40   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00
Warehouse - Furniture                                  0.09   0.03   0.12   0.00   0.00    0.00
Vehicle                                                0.31   0.00  0.31   0.00   0.00    0.00
Monitoring Equipment                                   0.22   0.00   0.22   0.00   0.00    0.00
Field Operation Support          0.30    0.00   0.30   0.00   0.00  0.00*   0.00   0.00    0.00
Sub Total          1.10    0.20   1.30   1.39   0.19   1.58 126.36  95.00  121.54
D. Institutional Development
Management Information System    1.10    0.10   1.20   0.46   0.20   0.66  41.82 200.00   55.00
Clinical Training Centers        0.10    0.00   0.10   0.11   0.02   0.13  110.00   0.00  130.00
Maintenance Capacity Development    0.10    0.00   0.10   0.01   0.00  0.01  10.00   0.00   10.00
Project Management               2.10    0.30   2.40   2.48   0.02   2.50 118.10   6.67  104.17
Sub Total          3.40    0.40   3.80   3.06   0.24   3.30  90.00  60.00   86.84
Grand Total       26.70   12.30  39.001  23.87  13.73  37.60  89.40 111.63   96.41
* This expense is incorporated in Outreach Service Delivery- Field Operation Support
- 31 -



Annex 2c.2. Project Financing details by Component and Procurement review category
(U.S$ million equivalent)
Project Cost [tems
Project Component         Sub-Component        ___________: _______   IDA :IG:,N Total
A. Outreach Service Delivery MCH Workers             a. Salary                  -      8.87    8.87
Health Posts             a. Prior Review*          8.21    1.68    9.89
b. Post Review*           1.83   0.37    2.20
c. Repair & Maintenance   1.00   0.20    1.20
d. Medical Equipment Pha   0.86   0.01    0.87
e. Furniture              0.22   0.07    0.29
Sub-total                       _         12.12   2.33   14.45
Primary Health Care Centers a. Prior Review*       3.32   0.68    4.00
b. Post Review*            -      -       -
c. Repair & Maintenance       -           -
d. Medical Equipment Pha   0.37    -     0.37
e. Furniture              0.08   0.03    0.11
Sub-total                                  3.77   0.71    4.48
Field Operations Support   Project Operating Cost  3.08    1.32    4.40
B. FP/MCH Clinical Unit                              a. Construction           0.40   0.08    0.48
b. Furniture               .      -       -
c. Medical Equipment      0.04    -      0.04
______________________           Sub-total                  _               0.44    0.08   0.52
C. Logistics & Supplies    Store construction & renovat a. Store construction & re   0.77   0.16    0.93
Supplies Transport
Warehouse - Furniture    b. Furniture              0.09   0.03    0.12
Vehicle                  c. Vehicle                0.31    -       0.31
Monitoring Equipment     d. Monitoring Equipment    0.22    -      0.22
Field Operation Support
_____________________            Sub-total                                  1.39    0.19    1.58
D. Institutional Development Management Information System                     0.46   0.20    0.66
Clinical Training Centers   I                      0.11   0.02    0.13
Maintenance Capacity Development                   0.01    -       0.01
Project Management                                 2.49   0.01    2.50
______________________           Sub-total                                  3.07    0.23   3.30
_______________________        Grand Total                                 23.87  13.73   37.60
* Procurement review category for construction of HPs, PHCCs
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cychs    -              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
( 2.g. 2 Economists, I FMS. etc.)    Implementation  l)evclopnent
Month/Year    Count          _ Specialt_                       Progress   i  Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 13-26,             6   Sector Manager, Population
1989                              Specialist, Economist, Education
(Identification                   Specialist, 2 Consultant
November 1-8,                3   Sector Manager, 2 Consultant
1989
(Identification)
July 27-August 11,           6   Sr. Economist, 2 Population
1990                              Specialist, Economist, Obstetrics
(Pre-Appraisal)                   and Gynecologist, Public Health
Specialist
October                      4   2 Population Specialist,
30-November 21,                   Economist, Consultant
1990 (Preparation)
February 10-28,              6   Sector Manager, Population
1991 (Preparation)                Specialist, Economist, Education
Specialist, 2 Consultant
April 13-28, 1991            4   2 Population Specialist,
(Pre-Appraisal)                   Economist, Consultant
AppraisallNegotiation
July 2-19, 1991              8   Sr. Economist, 2 Population
(Technical                        Specialist, Economist,
Appraisal)                        Obstetrics and Gynecologist,
Public Health Specialist,
Young Professional,
Operations Analyst
November 11-20,              3    2 Population Specialist, Young
1991 (Interim                     Professional
mission)
January 7-23, 1992           3    2 Population Specialist, Young
(Interim mission)                 Professional
March 30- April              5    2 Population Specialist,
23, 1992                          3 Consultant
(Appraisal)
February 22-                 7   2 Population Specialist,
March 14, 1993                    Population Economist, Operation
(Technical                        Research Specialist, Architect,
assistance to                     JGF Coordinator, Social Sector
operations research               Specialist
under JGF)
April 21- May 14,            5    Population Specialist,
1993                              Population Economist, Operation
(Institutional                    Research Specialist, Architect,
arrangements for                  Architecture Procurement
readiness)                        Specialist
- 34 -



September 15-                8   2 Population Specialist, 2
October 6, 1993                   Operations Analyst, 2 Architect
(Final Appraisal &                Consultant, Logistic Specialist,
Pre-Negotiation)                  Population Economist
January 18-21,               5   2 Procurement Specialist,
1994 (Negotiation,                Operations Analyst, Principle
held in WB, HQ)                   Counsel, Disbursement Officer
Supervision
July 21-August 5,             7   Population Specialist, Health       S              S
1994                              Management Specialist,
Architect Consultant,
Operation Research
Specialist, Program
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist,
Logistic Specialist
May 17-30, 1995               8   2 Population Specialist, Health &   U              S
Population Specialist, Architect
Consultant, Operation Research
Specialist, Implementation
Specialist, Logistic Specialist,
Public Health Specialist
October 30 -                  5   2 Population Specialist,            U              U
November 12, 1995                 Population & Health Specialist,
Architect Consultant, Logistic
Specialist
June 22- July 3,              5   2 Population Specialist,            S              S
1996                              Population & Health Specialist,
Architect Consultant, Logistic
Specialist
December 5-19,                5   Population Specialist, Education    S              S
1996                              Specialist, Health Sector
Specialist, Architect Consultant,
Health Management Specialist
May 29- June 10,              7   2 Population Specialist,            S              S
1997                              Management Consultant, Health
Sector Specialist, Architect
Consultant, 2 Procurement
Specialist
September 16                  6   2 Population Specialist, Health     S              S
October 1, 1997                   Sector Specialist, Architect
Consultant, 2 Procurement
Specialist
April 16- May 1,              6   Population Specialist, Health       S              S
1998                              Sector Specialist, Architect
Consultant, Program
Officer/Financial Management,
2 Procurement Specialist, Health
Management Consultant
- 35 -



November 24 - 30,              6   2 Population Specialist, Health       S              S
1998                               Sector Specialist, Architect
Consultant, Financial
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
July 18- 30, 1999              7   Human Resource Specialist,           S              S
Population Specialist, Health
Sector Specialist, Public Health
Specialist, Architect Consultant,
Financial Management
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist
December 1-10,                 7   Human Resource Specialist,           S              S
1999                               Population Specialist, Health
Sector Specialist, Public Health
Specialist, Architect Consultant,
Financial Management
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist
July 10- 21, 2000             4   Population Specialist, Health         S              S
Sector Specialist, Architect
Consultant, Procurement
Specialist
December 4-15,                 5   Population Specialist, Health        S              S
2000                               Specialist, Architect Consultant,
Financial Management
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist
ICR
March 2001                    4    Population Specialist,
Health Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist
-36 -



(b) Staff:
Sta-C of Project Cycle             .          Actuall Latest Estimate
,____ _  'No. Staftiweeks              u LSs ('00()
Identification/Preparation                  514.1                          636.8
AppraisalNegotiation                        726.7                         1,539.6
Supervision                                 350.5                          548.5
ICR                               Included in SPN            Included in SPN cost
cost
Total                                     1,591.3                         2,724.9
Note: According to the ICR guidelines, annex should include Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
The Supervision costs include ICR's Actual/Latest Estimate.
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
.IMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
21 Sector Policies                        OH  OSUOM  O N  ' NA
Z Physical                                 DH *SUDM ON ONA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
. Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
-]Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
>A Poverty Reduction               0 H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
.3Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
L Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
:Q Private sector development             0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
g Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LII Other (Please specify)                O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
A Supervision                                         OHS OS   Ou  OHU
3 Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
. Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
] Government implementation performance              O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
3 Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   Ou   O HU
7] Overall                                            OHS OS   O  U  O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Preparation - HMG/N
1. Reports on Phase I, 1I and III Working Groups on (1991):
i) Outreach Service Delivery in Health Posts and Below
ii) Clinical FP/MCH Service Delivery
iii) Supplies and Logistics
iv) Central Management
va) IEC and Demand Generation
vb) Population Policy
vi) Malaria Control
Preparation - The World Bank
I. Nepal: Poverty and Incomes, 1991
2. Country Assistance Strategy Paper, 1992
3. Financial Plan for the Health and Population Sector, Technical Notes, April 18, 1993
4. Financing Plan for Health and Population Program - Program Highlights and Key Issues,
May 25, 1993
5. Preliminary Design and Basic Layout with Field Data (Prototype Design), December 1993
6. Design and Cost Estimate of Primary Health Care Center - Yodukuha, Dhanusha (Prototype
Design), December 1993
7. Cost Estimate (Prototype Design), December 1993
8. Bill of Quantity (Prototype Design), 1994
9. Cost Tables (Detailed + Summary), January 27, 1994
101.Background and Highlights of Findings of Operations Research on Delivery of Family Health
Service in Rural Nepal, December 18-19, 1995
Preparation - Trust Fund (JGF)
1. Alternate Approaches: A Key for Integrated Logistics Systems, October 1993
2. Research and Study Report on Rural Health Service Implementation, 1993/94 (In Nepali)
3. Primary Evaluation of New National Health Policy Implementation Effect (In Nepali), 1994
4. Operations Research on Population and Family Health - The Baseline Survey, 1994
5. Family Health Service Delivery in Three Rural Areas of Nepal, 1994
6. Proceedings of the Seminar on Dissemination of Findings of Operations Research on Family
Health Service Delivery in Rural Nepal, December 18-19, 1995
7. Family Health Service Delivery in Three Rural Areas of Nepal, 1995
8. Health Facilities Infrastucture Survey, August 1995
Implementation - HMG/N
1. Report on the Project Launch Workshop, July 27-28, 1994 and September 13, 1994
2. Work plans and Budgets FY 1994/95, Project Implementation Volume (PIV) for:
1994 - 2000; FY 1998/99; FY 1999/2000
3. Project Progress Reports - July 1994 to December 2000
4. Reports on Mid-term Review:
i) Needs Assessment and Individual Preliminary Design of FP/MCH Units at Doti and Kalaiya
- 40 -



Hospitals and CTC Units at Rajbiraj, Nepalgunj and Kailali Hospitals, March 1997
ii) Organization and Management, Supervision and Monitoring, Logistics Management, Civil
Works, May 1997
iii) Inventory Checking of Medical Equipment in Health Facilities of Nepal, October 1997
iv) Report of Monitoring of Civil Works of HPs and PHCCs, November 1997
v) Assessment of Medical Equipment/Infrastructures in Health Posts and Primary Health Care
Centers, April 1998
vi) A study on Physical Facilities, Supplies, Staffing and Service Utilization in Health
Facilities of Nepal, April 1998
5. Medical Equipment Supplied through World Bank Source: Phase I - IV
6. Reports on Maintenance Capacity Development: i) Health Post and Primary Health Care
Center Maintenance Program, November 1999; ii) Policy Paper, April 15, 2000
7. Accounts Reports on:
i) Accounts Manual (in Nepali), 1997
ii) The backlogs of reimbursable expenditure of the cost centers upto FY 1998/99
iii) Audit and Unaudited Reports - 1993/94 - 1998/99
iv) Pilot Project: Performance Audit Report, April 20, 2000
8. Reports on MCH Workers i) Rapid Assessment, 1999
ii) Maternal and Child Health Workers - Activity Evaluation, 2000
Implementation - The World Bank
I. Project Launch Workshop - Manual
2. Country Portfolio Performance Review, June 3-4, 1996 and February 11, 1997
3. Portfolio Improvement Plan (PIP) - February 1999
4. Annual Review of Portfolio Performance for FY2000, June 28, 2000
5. QAG - Rapid Supervision Assessment (RSA3), July 1999
6. Quality Assessment (QSA4) Final Assessment, November 20, 2000
7. Report on an Audit of Portfolio Supervision in The South Asia Region (Draft),
February 12, 2001
8. Aide-Memoires, 590, PSRs - July 1994 to December 2000 and Technical Reports of
Architect Consultant during biannual supervision mission - December 1996 to July 2000
Completion - HMG/N
1. End line Survey Reports (November 2000) on:
i) Outcome Assessment
ii) Community Based Monitoring and Supervision
iii) Assessment of Effectiveness of Supervision and Monitoring Function and Training
iv) Assessment of Effectiveness of Project Inputs and Training on Logistics Management
v) Assessment of Performance of Financial Management and Effectiveness of Financial
Management Training
vi) Perforrnance Assessment of Infrastructure Development Component
2. Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Health, December 2000
Reference
-41 -



1. Program of Action of the UN International Conference on Population and Development,
1994
2. Eight (1992-1997) and Ninth (1997-2002) Five Year Plan, National Planning Commission
3. National Fertility Health Survey, Ministry of Health, 1996
4. Country Assistance Strategy, The World Bank 1998
5. Annual Reports, Department of Health Services, 1994/95 - 1998/1999
6. Health Management Information System, Planning and Foreign Aid Division, DOHS,
1999/2000
7. Nepal Population Report, Ministry of Population and Environment, 2000
8. Public Expenditure Review, Volume III: Social Sectors, The World Bank, March 2000
9. Nepal Operational Issues and Prioritization of Resources in the Health Sector,
The World Bank, June 2000
-42 -



Annex 8. Project Output/Outcome Supportive Tables
Table 1. Trend of Service Utilization at Outlying Health Facilities (1994-2000)
Indicator          Unit        1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98    1998/99    1999/00
Contraceptive          %        21.3        28.2        31.0       31.3        32.6        34.5
Prevalence Rate
(Outcome)
Utilization of      Number    4,485,520   5,167,378   5,933,330   7,115,981   6,983,297   7,036,459
Services
- New OPD Cases
(Outcome)
Antenatal First       %of       15.5        19.4       21.4        25.8        27.0        35.0
Visit by Pregnant    expected
Women              pregnancies
Deliveries            % of      3.1         4          6           8.1         13.4        13.5
Conducted by        expected
Trained Persons    pregnancies
(Outcome)
Sub Health Posts       /        73.7       48          48          86          91.0        92
reporting MIS
HP/PHCCs               %        72.0        88         92          96          97          95.5
reporting MIS
Sources:
I, Annual Reports, Departrnent of Health Services - 1994/95 - 1998/99
2. HMIS data-Planning and Foreign Aid Division, Department of Health Services, 1999/2000
- 43 -



Table 2. Service Utilization at 23 HPs and 13 PHCCs Three cycle analyses by each Trimester
during 1999-2000
Services (No. of cases)           First Cycle     Second Cycle        Third Cycle
Primary Health Care Centers
Family Planning Users                            86,404             99,546             117,383
Deliveries by Trained Personal                      752                806                938
Antenatal Visits                                  5,138              6,207               7,595
Diarrhoeal Cases                                  3,789              2,970               6,213
Measles Immunizations                             4,725              4,789               4,575
Health Posts
Family Planning Users                            92,379             99,275             114,627
Deliveries by Trained Personal                     908               1,079               1,020
Antenatal Visits                                  5,138              6,207               7,595
Diarrhoeal Cases                                  5,400              4,076               7,208
Measles Immunizations                             6,404              5,861               6,714
Source: PIU - Outcome Assessment of Population and Family Health Project, Final Report, November 2000
-44 -



Table 3. FP/MCH Clinics planned and conducted - Three cycle analysis by each Trimester
during 1999-2000
Primary Health Care Center Level
Types of Clinics Planned and Conducted                  Cycle I        Cycle II           Cycle III
Total Antenatal Visits Planned (No.)                      332             121               155
Antenatal visits conducted (%)                            85.7           91.7               94.8
Total Immunization Clinics Planned (No.)                  228            229                245
Total Immunization Clinics Conducted (%)                  89.5            100               100
Total Outreach Clinics Planned (No.)                      612            269                241
Total Outreach Clinics Conducted (%)                      73.2           67.7              60.58
HP Level
Total Antenatal Visits Planned (No.)                      327            380                388
Antenatal Visits Conducted (%)                            84.1           100.0              100
Total Immunization Clinics Planned (No.)                  629            640                647
Total Immunization Clinics Conducted (%)                  83.1           94.33              98.6
Total Outreach Clinics Planned (No.)                      712            322                681
Total Outreach Clinics Conducted (%)                      66.0           69.6              82.09
Source: PlU - Outcome
Assessment of Population
and Family Health Project,
Final Report, Novernber
2000
Table 4. Percentage of Surveyed Health Facilities having Clinical Staff by
Three cycle analyses by each Trimester
Facilities                       First Cycle      Second Cycle       Third Cycle
District Hospital having Staff Nurses                   75.0              75.0              87.5
Primary Health Care Centers having Doctors              41.6              30.8              23.1
Health Posts having Auxiliary Nurse-Midwifes            83.3              86.9              95.6
Sub Health Posts having MCH Workers                     100.0             87.5              87.5
Source: PIU - Outcome
Assessment of Population
and Family Health Project,
Final Report. November
2000
-45 -



Table 5. Estimated Funding gap and Additional fund required out of HMG/N
Regular Budget (Amount in NRs.)
S.                               For Remaining
No.         Budget Items            Period of         For FY2001102           Total
FY2000101
1.   Transportation Support            2,500,000            14,000,000        16,500,000
2.   Maintenance of Vehicles                                 2,700,000         2,700,000
3.   Field operation Support            8,544,579           41,277,000        49,821,579
4.   Health Management                                       2,000,000         2,000,000
Information System
Total                   11,044,579           59,977,000        71,021,579
-46 -



