CREDIT NUMBER 2600 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and Family Health Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2600 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1994, between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)   "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the Borrower's central bank
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra
Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended;
(c)   "Project Implementation Unit" means the unit referred to
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(d)   "Fiscal  Year" means   the  Borrower's   fiscal  year
commencing on or about July 16 and ending twelve months thereafter.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 19,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Nepal
Rastra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2406. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2004 and ending February 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in cortant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.


﻿(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and health management practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿- 5-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with    appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than twelve months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expendicure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until   at least one year     after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and   accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of


﻿- 6 -
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu,
Nepal
Cable address:                Telex:
ARTHA                     2249-ARTHA NP
Kathmandu
Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By if
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works and         8,950,000        90%
related furniture
(2)   Equipment, other        2,210,000        100% of foreign
furniture, vehicles                      expenditures,
and materials                            100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 75%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)   Training:
(a) Foreign                70,000        100%
(b) Local                 200,000        95%
(4)   Professional fees         800,000        100%
and consultants'
services
(5)   Project Imple-            250,000        100%
mentation Unit


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Eauivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Project operating          4,900,000        100% until
costs                                      July 15, 1996,
90% until July 15,
1998, and 70%
thereafter
(7) Transportation               120,000        75%
costs under
Part C.2 of the
Project
(8) Unallocated                1,900,000
TOTAL                    19,400,000


﻿- 10 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "Project operating costs" means the costs of
supervision and field visits by outreach and clinical staff and
their managers and vehicle and office operation and maintenance
costs, all for the purposes of implementing the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 150,000, may
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1994.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for
expenditures under contracts for consultants' services not exceeding
$5,000 equivalent, for local training, fellowships and operating
costs, for goods not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and for civil
works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, respectively, under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (a) to decrease the total
fertility rate through an increase in contraceptive prevalence, and
(b) to help in reducing maternal and child morbidity and mortality
and raising life expectancy, all in accordance with the Borrower's
health and population policy, and, to those ends: (i) to support
provision of family planning, and maternal and child health services
through an increase in their coverage, access, quality and
utilization; (ii) to improve outlying health facilities; and (iii)
to enhance institutional capacity for implementation of family
planning, and maternal and child health programs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Outreach Service Delivery
1.    Introduction of female maternal and child health care workers
at about 3,200 Sub-Health Posts.
2.    Construction of about 125 Health Posts, and renovation of
about 100 existing Health Posts.
3.    Establishment of about 5 Primary Health Care Centers, and
upgrading of about 20 Primary Health Care Centers from existing
Health Posts.
4.    Field operations support for outreach and clinical work.
Part B:     Clinical Service Delivery
Construction of about 5 clinical family planning, and maternal
and child health units in selected District Hospitals.
Part C:     Logistics and Supplies
1.    Construction   and  renovation   of  warehouses   to   store
contraceptives, and maternal and child health related essential
drugs.


﻿- 12 -
2.    Transportation  from  central and regional warehouses     to
district and outlying health facilities of medical equipment,
contraceptives and maternal and child health related essential
drugs.
3.    Field support for the storage and transportation of medical
equipment, contraceptives, and maternal and child health related
essential drugs.
Part D:     Institutional Development
1.    Establishment  of   a  field-based,   integrated  management
information system in support of family planning, and maternal and
child health programs.
2.    Creation of about 7 clinical training centers at hospitals.
3.    Development   of   staff   capacity   for   maintenance   of
infrastructure and equipment.
4.    Support for the Project Implementation Unit, including for
monitoring and evaluation of project performance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two pre-disclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
international recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, furniture
and vehicles shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procurement
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nepal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works (including related furniture to be packaged with
them) under the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Small works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000
may be carried out under force account.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    Contracts for the transportation of contraceptives, essential
drugs, and medical equipment under Part C.2 of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $500,000, may be awarded on the basis of price
quotations obtained from at least three providers of transportation
services eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each civil works contract estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract for goods
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part A of Section I of
this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to


﻿- 15 -
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the


﻿- 16 -
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain a Project
Implementation Unit with staff, resources and powers satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that the female maternal and child
health workers to be appointed under Part A.1 of the Project will
be: (a) placed as follows: 1300 such workers, by June 30, 1994, and
the remaining 1900 such workers, by June 30, 1997, at the rate of
about 650 workers in each of the Fiscal Years 95 through 97; and (b)
retained and funded thereafter through the end of FY 2000.
3.    The Borrower shall, pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.06
of the General Conditions, prepare and furnish to the Association
within 60 days of the end of each reporting period, beginning with
the six-month period ending December 31, 1994, semiannual progress
reports on the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
4.    The Borrower shall by March 31, 1995 and each March 31
thereafter, and on the basis of the reports furnished pursuant to
paragraph 3 above, review with the Association the progress of the
Project and complete Project implementation plans for the following
fiscal year.
5.    The Borrower shall by May 31, 1997 or such other date as the
Association shall determine, conduct a comprehensive mid-term review
with the Association of the actions taken pursuant to the
implementation of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "eligible Categories" means any     of  the
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term  "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 19 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment  or   payments  in  respect   of  which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 20 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the S-peecLal Account will not be
required to cover further payments for .ligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿1 N1F R    F A I()NA~ 1 1)I)H\  P1 ()PM I N L Ä\SS(C)(' AFI()N
CI.Ri IL(ATI
I hei ek Cevtl\ idt tlle ertik tilat  d tilel cop\ of
the  orni,i11JI  in  tlle  Irclu\hes  oi  tie  ILntermitiol.11
ltk VOr lRec1st iltitn and          at)i op111 dnd the
Interlillollil I)c\cloplleill Association
FOR SECRIETARY


