Document of
The World Bank
FOR O CIAL USE ONLY
6vz1 /497 s-Cr4
Repoit No. 7034-M
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE GAMBIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 30, 1988
Sahelian Department, Africa Region
Industry and Energy Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performauce of
their offical duties. Ilt o, , * %v  t  ' -w'    '   1 *     '   . I I M  ''    *  I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name  -  Dalasi (D)
USS1.00        -  D 6.25
D 1.00         .  US$0.16
(As of May 1988)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Agricultural Development Bank
AfDF      -    African Development Fund
BICI      -    Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et
l'Industrie
CBG       -    Central Bank of The Gambia
CFAO      -    Compagnie Frangaise de l'Afrique Occidentale
CFTC      -    Commonwealth Fund for Technical Coorperation
EEC       -    European Economic Community
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
GCDB      -    Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
GCU       -    Gambia Cooperative Union
GPA       -    Gambia Port Authority
GPMB      -    Gambia Produce Marketing Board
GPTC      -    Gambia Public Transport Corporation
GTTI      -    Gambia Technical Training Institute
GUC       -    Gambia Utilities Corporation
GWFC      -    Gambia Women's Finance Company
IBAS      -    Indigenous Business Advisory Service
IDU       -    Industrial Development Unit
IPU       -    Industrial Promotion Unit
MDI       -    Management Development Institute
MEPID     -    Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development
MFT       -    Ministry of Finance and Trade
NGOs      -    Non-Governmental Organizations
NIB       -    National Investment Board
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration
PCBs      -    Participating Commercial Banks
PCC       -    Project Coordinating Committee
PE        -    Public Enterprise
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility
PVOs      -    Private Voluntary Organizations
SCBG      -    Standard Chartered Bank Gambia Limited
SME       -    Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
SSE       -    Small-Scale Enterprise
SPPF      -    Special Project Preparation Facility
UNCDF     -    United Nations Capital Development Fund
WID       -    Women in Development
WWB       -    Women's World Banking
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FO OFMAL U8 ONLY
TUE CAMIA
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTZRPRISZ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary .......................     .. ..........  (i)-(iii)
PART 1 - Til SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT ................ ........ .        1
A. The Economic Setting ......................................       1
D. The Sall and Medium Enterprises (SME) Sector .............        3
Importance and Characteristics ........................       3
The Informal Sector ........... O.. ............. .    4
Women in SMEs ..................................       4
Constraints and Development Pot enteal ................       5
Government SME Policies ............................ . .      5
Invetment Code/Development Act ................        6
Investors'  Guide  ...............................     6
Government Regulations .........................       6
Promotion and Traini ng I     nstitutions ...................  7
b) IBAS ......................                         9..................  7
b) MDI .....................................................  9
c) Other Support Institutions ..................       9
C. The Public Enterprises (PE) Sector .    . ......................  10
Size and Performance         ................ .              10
The Ro_" of the National Investment Board (NIB) .......      11
The PR Reform Program ................ . .                   11
D. The Financial Sector           ............... .                 12
Institutional Structure ................    .      .....     12
Interest Rates and Resource Mobilization ..............      15
Term Lending and SHEs: Need for the Proposed Credit ...      16
PART II - IDA ROLE AND SECTOR STRATEGY .......................      17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
The Gambia in September 1987.  The mission members were:
Philip C. Adoteye     Task Manager
Hung Nguyen           Operations Officer
Robert Taylor         Public Enterprise Specialist
John Short            Consultant/Economist
Michaela Walsh (WWB)  Consultant/WID Specialist
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
PART III to THI PROJZCT ...................... .............  .     ............  17
Project Objectives and Justification .......** ........      17
Lessons fhom Previous SME Assistance Efforts .........       18
The Rural and Urban Enterprises Project ........      18
Project Description             ...              ...... .    19
Human Resources Development Component .................      20
Design and Features ...... ....... .......... .       20
GCDB Reform ....              .      ........... .    21
Assistance to Women Entrepreneurs ..............      21
Component Costs, Terms and Conditions ..........      22
Credit Component      .....          ... t .... ......       22
Size of the Component        .      ...........       22
Institutional Arrangements and Eligible
Intermediaries ....... ....      ... .t.     22
Eligible Beneficiaries and Sub-projects ...... ..     24
Terms and Conditions of Financing        . .          24
Subloan Processing and Administration ..........      25
Public Enterprises Reform Component ...................      25
Project Cost and Financing ............................      26
Project Implementation ........ .       ................     27
Project Management ....        .     .. ...........   27
Procurement and Disbursement . ..................     27
Special Account ...   . ... ...        ............ .  28
Auditing and Reporting ........................ .     28
Project Benefits and Risks         .......     ..     .      28
Benefits ......    ...     ..............................  28
Risks .. ..... .............                ....      29
PART IV to AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGSREACHED ........ ......     29
Conditions of Effectiveness .......................... .     30
Condition of Disbursements ...........................       30
Special Condition      ...      .... . .. ........ I ...     30
ANNEXS
I      GDP by Sector
II      Policy Framework:  Status & Reforms to be Undertaken
III      Statement of Private Enterprise Development
Policy
IV      Major Characteristics of Public Enterprises
V      Structure of Interest Rates
VI      Sectoral Distribution of Commercial Bank Credit,
1984-1987
VII      Domestic Credit 1980-1986
VIII      Outstanding Credit by Sector & Bank, September 1987



ANNEXUS (CONT'D.)
IX      Summary Accounts of the Commercial Banks, 1984-1987
X      BIC:  Balance Sheets, 1979-1986
XI      BICI:  Profit and Loss Accounts, 1979-1986
xII      SCBG:  Balance Sheets, 1978-1986
XIII      SCBG:  Profit and Loss Accounts, 1978-1986
XIV      GCDB:  Balance Sheets, 1978-1986
XV      GCDBs  Profit and Loss Accounts, 1978-1986
XVI      Draft CBG Circular on Apex Line of Credit
XVII      Draft Participating Agreement for Apex Line of
Credit
XVIIi      Terms of Reference for Liquidation of ADB
XIX      Detailed Project Costs Schedule
XX      Project Coordinating Committee - Draft Terms of Reference
XXI      Schedule of Disbursements
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.      The Gambia: Private Enterprise Development - Potential and
Constraints, August 1986
2.      Revised Development Act of The Gambia, April 1987
3.      Proposed Reform of Duty Drawback Scheme, June 1987
4.      Borro'rers and Lenders in The Gambia, June 1987
5.      GCDB-Government Managed Fund Agreement, June 1987
6.      Project Document: UNCDF Assistance to the Gambia, January 1985
7.      Government- GCDB Loan Agreement on UNCDF Project, January 1985
8.      Draft Performance Contract (GPA), September 1987
9.      Final Draft Performance Contract (GUC), October 1987
10.      Institutional Development in the Context of the (Private)
Enterprise Development Project, October 1987
11.      The Development of the Private Enterprise Sector in The Gambia,
January, 1987
12.      Women's World Banking: Women's Enterprises Components, December
1987
13.      IBAS Restructuring Proposal, September 1987
14.      Project Coordinating Committee - Draft Terms of Reference
15.      Apex Line of Credit - Draft Participating Agreement
16.      GCDB Diagnostic Review and Restructuring Program as adopted by
Government of the Gambia.



THE GAMBIA
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiariest     Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG), participating
co mmerical banks (GCDB, BICI, SCBG), ADB, Gambia SHE
promotion institutions (MDI, NIB, IBAS, GTTI, GWC) and
productive small and medium enterprises.
Amounts            SDR 7.3 million (US$10 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Onlendint Terms:   The Borrower, through the Central Bank of the Gambia
(CBG) as its agent, would onlend US$5.4 million
equivalent to qualified participating banks at 3
percentage points below the CBG's Treasury Bill discount
rate (currently 16Z p.a.), with a flexible amortization
schedule reflecting the aggregate subloans made by the
banks. The procedure for setting the onlending rate
would be reviewed annually. Acting under a Management
Agreement satisfactory to IDA, CBG would (i) collect for
the Borrower's account the interests due from
participating banks, except for an administrative fee of
two percentage points that would accrue to the Apex
Unit; and (ii) repay the Borrower the funds lent to
banks over a period of 17 years starting three years
after the date of the Management Agreement. Interest
rates charged by participating banks to beneficiary SMEs
would be market determined. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government for a fee implicit in
the differential between the onlending rate to the bae3ks
and the cost of IDA funds. The Borrower would provide
US$1.2 million equivalent as a grant to the NIB to
administer the Borrower's public enterprise reform and
privatizat.on program and would use the remaining US$3.4
million equivalent to (i) provide training, technical
assistance and logistical support to participating
banks, SHE support institutions and the Apex Unit
located at the CBG and (ii) restructure and strengthen
the GCDB.
Prolect            The project, which would support the Government's
Descrintion:       policy of scaling down the PE sector and strengthening
the private sector through appropriate policy,
institutional and financial measures, would offer an
integrated package of credit, technical assistance and
training tailored to the needs of SMEs in The Gambia.
The credit component would finance the foreign exchange
and some local costs of (i) fixed assets and associated



- ii -
permanent working capital of investment projects
promoted by private SMEs in all sectors of the economy
except trade, real estate and subsistence agriculture;
and (ii) free-standing working capital for such
enterprises. Financing for free-standing working
capital in aggregate would not exceed US$0.5 million.
Any accredited bank in The Gambia in good standing with
the Central Bank would be eligible to participate,
subject to its entering into a participating agreement
with the CBG (satisfactory to IDA) that would specify,
inter alia, the lending and repayment conditions,
procurement and disbursement procedures, and the
intermediary's acceptance of responsibility for
appraisal and supervision of subprojects. The human
resources development component would be provided
through local institutions involved in training and SME
promotion for (i) SMEs and women entrepreneurs on
technaical matters and project preparation and
man&gement; and (ii) participating banks in project
preparation and appraisal techniques. It would also
allow GCDB to implement an institutional restructuring
program and to train its staff. The public enterprise
(PE) reform component would support the Government's
ongoing PE reforms through (i) technical assistance to
NIB to strengthen its role in monitoring PEs and the PE
divestiture program and implementation and supervision
of performance contracts for the six largest PEs; and
(ii) improvements in accounting, management and computer
systems in selected PEs.
Benefitss          The Project will be the first comprehensive program in
The Gambia for the development of private etiterprises,
principally SHEs. By supporting the growth of SMEs, the
Project will nurture the development of Gambian
entrepreneurs and generate new job opportunities at a
relatively low capital cost. It is expected that the
credit component would kelp generate investments
totalling about US$8.3 million and 1,400 new jobs at an
average cost of US$6,000 per job. The project will also
enable women entrepreneurs to upgrade their skills and
ease their access to institutional credit. In addition
to improving the performance and autonomy of major PEs,
the project will also strengthen the financial sector by
restructuring The Gambia's predominant commercial bank -
GCDB.
Riskat             As the first Apex operation in The Gambia, the project
involves institutional arrangements that are unfamiliar
to the intermediaries and the Central Bank. Some delays
in subloan processing may occur as the CBG needs to
familiarize itself with the system and as participating
banks strengthen their capacity to appraise and
supervise SME projects. This risk would be reduced by
the rapid implementation of the technical assistance



- iii -
components and close supervision by IDA during the
initial phase of project execution. Another risk, which
relates to GCDB's ability to successfully irplement its
rehabilitation program and achieve institutional
viability, is alleviated by the commitment of Government
and GCDB'I management to such an objective and by
conditionality in this and other related operations. A
third risk relates to the progress of the PE divestiture
program, which depends very much on investor interest
and the overall economic outlook. This risk should,
however, be minimd.zed by the Government's continuing
comitment to the success of the Economic Recovery
Program and to private sector de.v3lopment, as well as
the incentives and institutional support measures
provided under the project.
Estimated Costs:                           Local        Foreign         Total
-----------USS million-----------
Investments (line of credit)                3.32          5.00           8.32
Human Resource Development                  0.28          2.67           2.95
Public Enterprise Reform                    0.20          1.18           1.38
Price and Physical Contingenc5es            0.20          0.75           0.95
4.00          9.60          13.60
Financing Plan:
SHE Subborrowers                            2.00          -              2.00
Participating Banks                         0.95                         0.95
Government                                  0.65          -              0.65
Proposed IDA Credit                         0.40          9.60          10.00
4.00          9.60          13.60
Estimated Disbursements
IDA FY      89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96    97    98
-----------------SDR million equivalent-----------------
Anmual a/           0.6   0.7   1.1   1.0   1.1   1.0   0.8   0.5   0.4   0.1
Cumulative          0.6   1.3   2.4   3.4   4.5   5.5   6.3   6.8   7.2   7.3
a/ FY 1989 disbursements include refund of PPF advance.
Rate of Return:    Not Applicable
Han:                No. IBRD 21025



THE GAMBIA
STAFF APfRAISAL REPORT
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A. The Economic Setting
1.01     The Gambia is one of the smallest countries in Africa, occupying a
narrow strip of land bordering The Gambia River. The country, whose width
does not exceed 50 km. is surrounded on three sides by the Republic of
Senegal, and on the faurth by the sea. Its estimated per capital income of
US$230 in 1987 places it among the most impoverished countries in the
world. It has no imp3rtant mineral resources, and the productive base is
limited, with the ecoaomy traditionally centered on the production of
groundnuts, the major source of foreign exchange. About two-thirds of the
800,000 population is engaged in agriculture (mainly groundnu.s, millet,
sorghum and rice) and livestock raising, which together contribute about 30
percent of GDP. The principal manufacturing activity is in groundnut
processing and a few other modest, resource-based processing enterprises,
all of which are located in Lanjul. Fishing resources are still under-
exploited, and processing is limited. The country is heavily dependent on
trade, importing about one-third of its food, all of its fuel and capital
goods and most other manufactured products. Exports remain highly
concentrated on groundnuts, which account for 85-90 percent of domestic
exports. Other exports include small amounts of fish, hides and skins,
cotton, palm kernels, fruits and vegetables.
1.02     Outside of agriculture, the most important features of the economy
are its rapidly growing tourism industry (over 75,000 tourists arrived in
1987), and a well developed commercial sector, which has historically been
involved in re-export trade to other countries in the region. This trade
expanded rapidly in the 1970s, as The Gambia maintained its traditionally
low tariff policy. The Gambia's small size, un-diversified productive base
and trade openness make it an inherently vulnerable economy, hlghly
sensitive to shortfalls in agricultural production and to changes in the
terms of trade.
1.03     In the 1960s and early 1970s, the economy grew at close to 5
percent p.a., the currency was strong and the budget was consistently
balanced. From 1975 to 1985, hkwever, as a result of internal policies and
unfavorable external factors, GDP growth slowed to about 1.8 percent per
annum and per capita income declined at the rate of about 1.6 percent p.a.
1.04     Several factors contributed to The Gambia's economic decline.
First, was the sharp growth in the size of the public sector which caused
chronic fiscal deficits after 1980. Second, was an excessive reliance on a
single export commodity -- groundnuts -- so that when world prices for
groundnuts softened in the face of rising world oil prices, The Gambia
faced a serious deterioration in its terms of trade and in the overall
current account from 1979 to 1983. Thirdly, although there are good
prospects for developing the country's fishing, tourism and resource-based



- 2 -
manufacturing potential, achieving a significant diversification of the
economy will inevitably take years. A fourth fundamental constraint is the
country's low level of human resource development, with an estimated
nation-wide adult literacy rate of only 15 percent. Reducing the size of
the over-extended public sector, increasing productive, export-oriented
activities in the private sector, and helping develop the human capital of
The Gambia are thus critical to the success of the country's structural
adjustment effort.
1.05     To reverse the economic deterioration, in mid-1985, Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP) with the objectives
of eliminating exchange rate and pricing distortions. creating incentives
for increased private sector production and exports, reducing the size and
scope of the public sector, and improving its efficiency. Under the ERP, a
floating exchange rate regime based upon an inter-bank market was adopted
in January 1986; the retail price of rice has been de-controlled and rice
imports have been privatized; and the prices of fuel, water, and
electricity, and public transport tariffs have been regularly adjusted tc
ensure a pass-through of exchange rate movements. In order to reduce the
size of public sector employment, Government in 1986 retrenched 2,625
temporary employees and 764 permanent government workers (constituting a
reduction of more than 20 percent of total) and eliminated 848 vacant
positions from the establishment roster. The Government also approved a
general strategy paper on parastatal divestiture, and decided to begin the
divestiture program with enterprises in the tourism and fishing sectors,
while performance contracts are entered into for the few enterprises slated
to remain in the public domain. The Investment Code was revised and more
efficient procedures for its administration adopted, efforts to
rehabilitate the financial soctor were initiated, and steps to eliminate
export disincentives in the fishing sector were taken.
1.06     The policy reform measures have begun to yield results.  Following
an initial depreciation of more than 100 percent against thie pound sterling
and some hesitancy by participants in the new inter-bank market for foreign
exchange, the currency quickly stabilized. The differential between the
official and parallel market exchange rates has been -Irtually eliminated,
and foreigp exchange transactions handled by the banking system have
increased significantly. In mid-1986, the Government also adopted an
increasingly flexible interest rate policy, with the rate structure being
determined on the basis of a bi-weekly tender system for treasury bills.
Since the adoption of the ERP, the rate of inflation has dropped from 70
percent in 1985/86 to about 9 percent in 1987/88. The Central Bank's gtoss
foreign exchange reserves have increased from less than one week of imports
in 1985/86 to about 2.5 months of imports in 1987/88, and external payments
arrears have been reduced. Improvewents in the policy environment coupled
with favorable weather led to an average annual increase in real GDP of 5.5
percent in 1986/87 - 1987/88.
1.07     The success of the ERP now hinges on a sufficient inflow of
foreign exchange as well as improvements in the institutional and financial
support systems to promote private investment activity. The proposed
operation will complement the policy reforms initiated under the ERP in the
areas of financial systems, expand the role of the private sector in the
economy, help reduce the burden of the public enterprise (PE) sector and
imprive the performance of remaining strategic PEs.



- 3 -
B The Small and Medium Enterprise (SMH) Sector
Importance and Characteristics
1.08     Small and medium enterprises (SMis) dominate all aspects of The
Gambian private sector, encompass all varieties of activities, and account
for about 50 percent of GDP. Despite this dominance, statistics on the SME
sector in The Gambia are sparse, being generally generated by ad hoc
surveys rather than by routine collection. The 1981182 National Income
Estimates indicate -hat there are an estimated 9400 formal sector SMEs with
between five and fifty employees in the manufacturing (especially food
processing), horticulture, poultry, tourism, construction, trucking, trade
and services sectors. Although manufacturing SMEs play a limited role in
the economy, contributing only about 7 percent of GDP, they have, as a
result of the incentives of the 1973 Development Act/Investment Code, grown
significantly in the past decade, from nine in 1970 to some 60 by 1986.
1.09     As in many African countries, trading and other services, tourism,
construction and fisheries have been the most important SME activities in
The Gambia. Some 500 SME (wholesale and retail) trade establishments
employing some 2,000 workers contributed to over 20 percent of GDP in 1986,
while repair, personal and business services made up another 20 percent.
Tourism, which has a concentration of private SMEs, is a high-growth
industry in The Gambia, and contributes about D8'J million in annual gross
earnings. While tourism still accounts for a rslatively small portion of
national value added, it is beginning to have significant indirect effects
on the food processing and artisanal sectors. Some 42 SHEs in construction
(and another dozen larger companies) accounted for about 4 percent of GDP
in 1985, and SMEs handle about 60 percent of the total catch of fish in The
Gambia, with the rest being controlled by eight industrial fishing
companies.
1.10     Employment surveys undertaken each December indicate that formal
private sector SMEs accounted for 32 percent of the 22,298 total formal
sector employment in December 1986, with the majority of the public sector
employment being accounted for by the civil service. Seventeen percent of
reported private SHE employment was in construction, 33 percent in
wholesale and retail trade, the restaurant business, and hotels and
tourism, 34 percent in agriculture, forestry and fishing, with the
remainder divided equally between manufacturing and service industries.
While no statistics exist to verify the fact, almost all employment outside
the reporting formal sector is thought to be in the private SME sector.
1.11     SMEs in The Gambia are mostly owned, managed and operated by
private Gambians, unlike the large enterprises which are often owned by
Government, or are joint ventures with foreign interests. Among the medium
sized enterprises, there is some foreign ownership, especially by Ghanaian,
Nigerian and Sierra Leonean entrepreneurs in restaurants, fish processing
and retail and re-export trades.
1.12     SHEs in The Gambia are characterized by their lack of structured
and well established management and organization, by the weakness and
sometimes complete absence of accounting systems, and by the informality of
their operations which are sometimes mixed up with family or religious



- 4 -
considerations. Many of then therefore need advice on how to upgrade their
management, organization and production techniques in order to t'aprove
their general performance. Another general characteristic, *seecially of
the sa ller enterprises outside Banjul, is their difficulty in gaining
access to appropriate technology, to the markets of the main urban areavs on
account of poor transport, and to bank credit. Nonetheless, their ubiquity
is indicative of their ability to survive and continued demand for their
products and services. Successful SNEs in The Gambia are frequently less
than ten years old, have been built up by individual initiative and have
developed by re-investment of surpluses. Since aall enterprises have
generally found it difficult to obtain professional assistance in preparing
bankable feasibility reports and in getting banks interested in their
project proposals, relatively few private SMEs have had access to funds
outside the equity investments of the owner and the imnediate or extended
family, although some SHEs have from time to time operated on suppliers'
credit. The ones who have had access to bank credit for term investments
have been financed mainly by the GCDB (until its difficulties forced it to
suspend operation of its Development Finance wing), or by the special loan
funds administered by IBAS for very small SSEs and sole proprietorships
(paras. 1.29 and 1.55).
1.13     The Informal Sector.  The informal sector is made up of a large
number of establishments, many of which are unregistered and keep little
record of their activities. Despite this, the informal sector is an
Important generator of employment, accounting for an estimated 50,000
workers or 15 percent of the labor force in the large towns. In the
provinces, most enterprises are informal by nature, and employ the majority
of adults outside the agricultural sector. Informal SSEs can be found
mainly in (i} art and handicrafts like wood sculpture, pottery, painting
etc.; (ii) commerce, usually on street corners; (iii) production workshops
including shoe making, weaving, tailoring, batik making, dressmaking and
bee keeping; (iv) services like grain milling, welding, restaurants, photo
studios and drinking places; and (v) transport. Very small business units
(less than five employees and under $1,500 in total capital) make up about
half of all informal SSEs and include mostly tailors, shoe makers,
carpenter shops and grain mills. The largest informal firms have about
$7,500 in assets and are in fish processing, batit making and restaurants.
The sector is estimated to have grown steadily at about 2 percent per year
in the past six years. Shortage of technical and managerial skills and
lack of access to credit are major constraints to the informal sector in
The Gambia. Although this project is not aimed primarily at the informal
sector, it attempts to encourage their transition to the formal sector
through reorganization and simplification of the company registration
process (para. 1.22) and hopes to accelerate their growth with the help of
improved business advisory and extension services (para. 1.30).
1.14     Women in SMEs.  Women are not well represented in the formal SME
sector in The Gambia, but they play a key role in particular sub-sectors,
make up almost half of active employment in the artisanal and informal
sectors, and are found in all activities that also allow time to care for a
family. Most Gambian women are engaged in one form of business or other
outside of the home.   In The Gambia, women dominate the fish processing
industry and are active in batiX making, weaving and grain milling, and the
distribution of small gas tanks for cooking fuel. They are also engaged in



road transport, textile, retail trade, and services (mainly hair salons).
Almost half of the population active in agriculture is also said to be
female, and about 60 percent of rural women are farmers in their own right.
1.15     More than their male counterparts, women entrepreneurs find it
extremely difficult gaining access to bank credit (both IBAS and the banks
report that less than 10 percent of credit goes to them), to technical
support services, or to business related training. Up until now, women
have had to rely on the informal credit sector for financing -- money
lenders, pawnbrokers, relatives and friends -- even though interest rates
here go as high as 70 percent. In the rare instances where they have had
bank credit, it is reported that co-signatories sometimes skim up to 20
percent of the loan proceeds off the top, forcing the enterprise to earn a
25 percent return just to break even. Thus, while no legal restrictions or
limitations are placed on them, the heavy social restrictions, the fact
that they rarely own property in their own names, and their general lack of
collateral and confidence in dealing with unfamiliar formal institutions
and banks pose major constraints for Gambian SMEs owned and/or managed by
women. This operation will use the existing institutional framework to
address their needs for training, credit, and extension services (paras.
3.14 and 3.21).
Constraints and Development Potential
1.16     Recent sector studies show that the development potential of the
SHE sector is significant. The positive business climate, the removal of
policy distortions in the context of the ERP and the changes in the
Investment Code have all enhanced the scope for SHE development in such
sectors as (i) food processing including rice milling, bakeries, breweries,
and juice concentrates for domestic consumption and groundnut processing
for export; (ii) fishing, aquaculture, fish preserving, processed and
frozen fish for export; (iii) tanning for export and domestic markets; (iv)
vegetable and tropical fruits for domestic and export markets; and (v)
tourism and tourism related activities. Most of the artisanal, productive
and service activities also have good growth potential. Nonetheless, the
sector faces some severe constraints. More than the larger, often public
enterprises, private SMEs suffer from limited access to training
facilities, a shortage of technical and managerial skills, and difficult
access to institutional credit, even though they appear to have substantial
borrowing capacity as their debt/equity ratio is generally very low. The
proposed project is designed to address these factors (access to credit, to
training and to extension services) constraining the development of private
sector SMEs.
Government SME Policies
1.17     The Government has since 1985 undertaken a number of far-reaching
policy reforms (para. 1.05) aimed not only at economic structural
adjustment and sustained growth, but at creating conditions favorable to
private sector development and the development of viable SMEs. Annex II
summarizes the current status of major policy reforms. Most notably,
exchange rate distortions have been eliminated, a flexible interest rate
policy adopted, and price controls previously administered by MFT



- 6 -
abolished. With a policy of promoting export oriented industrial
investments and only such import substitution as is competitive vithout
excessive trade protection, a liberal business environment is being
encouraged, so that current average tariffs are low (20-30 percent),
quantitative restrictions are non-existent, export taxes are abolished, and
no restrictions exist on employment or on capital repatriation.
1.18     The new macro-economic environment is reflected in the high
priority accorded to the private sector and to improving the policy and
institutional framework for its development, the official statement on
private enterprise development, and the steps taken to revise the
investment code, issue an Investors' Guide, and streamline the
administrative processes for enterprise registration and licensing (paras.
1.19-1.23).
1.19     In its statement of private enterprise development (Annex III),
Government affirms its intention to concentrate on creating and maintaining
a healthy macro-economic policy environment while leaving development of
the productive sectors to private enterprise. The policies through which
Government is creating such a business climate include the maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate system, liberal trade policies, free market pricing
and absence of administrative interference in private business.
1.20     An old (1973) Investment Code/Development Act had favored large,
import-intensive manufacturing enterprises over smaller, non-manufacturing
activities, was administratively cumbersome, and had time-consuming and
highly discretionary procedures, with the result that smaller enterprises
without large pecuniary and managerial resources were often discriminated
against in its administration. A revised Investment Code/Development Act
addresses these weaknesses and is open to all activities, allowing the
sectors in which private SHEs are concentrated to have comparable benefits
under the code. Procedures for administering investment incentives have
also been simplified by making them more quantifiable and explicit, and the
administration of the code is being speeded up, so that decisions for
benefits under it will now be made within 90 days of application. The
proposed operation provides additional assistance to IDU of the Ministry of
Economic Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID) and to other
Government agencies involved in implementing the revised Act (para. 3.11).
1.21     A new Investors' Guide has been prepared by the NIB as a one-stop
handbook for potential and current investors in The Gambia. The guide
provides a unique source of information for all investors and substantially
lessens the administrative costs for starting or expanding private small
and medium enterprises.
1.22     Government regulations relating to the establishment and operation
of private SMEs have been streamlined with the aim of easing the legal and
administrative constraints previously facing potential entrepreneurs.
Previous abuses in company registration have been eliminated by changing
the nature and functions of the Company Registration Committee to focus it
on verification of immigration and assistance to the Expatriate Quota
Board, leaving the routine task of company registration entirely to the
Registrar General's Department.



1.23     Other measures that Government has taken to improve the economic
environment within which enterprises operate include the do-control of
prices and abolishment of the Price Control Administration. In addition, a
USAID-financed study led to a reform of the income tax system in February
1988 which rationalized the high marginal tax rates that had led to
widespread tax evasion.  Finally, there is no l mort licensing in The
Gambia.
1.24     The policy reforms undertaken or planned by the Government have
greatly improved the prospects for SME development To ensure wide access
of SMEs to the various incentives provided to them, the Coordinating
Committee for this project (para. 3.32) is planned to incorporate
representatives of the Ministries of Economic Planning and Industrial
Development and of Finance and Trade (MFT), the main Government departments
involved in administering benefits to enterprises, so that these could
advise on further needed improvements to the policy framework for private
SMEs. A representative of the commercial banks will also sit on the
committee to provide a private sector perspective to it.
Promotion and Training Institutions
1.25     Several institutions exist in The Gambia for promoting and
supporting the development of SMEs, as well as for providing training and
technical assistance to them. A principal objective of this project is to
streamline and strengthen this institutional support structure to enable it
to better assist enterprises in the country. The main institutions most
likely to participate in and to benefit from the project are discussed
below.
a) JBAS
1.26     Set up under MEPID in 1976 as part of the Government's strategy to
upgrade the small enterprise sector, the objectives of the Indigenous
Business Advisory Service (IBAS) were (i) to provide advisory services for
local entrepreneurs; (ii) to create possibilities for further expansion of
the private sector through an increase in self-employment opportunities;
and (iii) to provide training and technical services to small scale
enterprises in the informal sector. Over time, IBAS has also assumed the
role of administering grant funds for lending to the informal sector and
helping to re-settle retrenched civil servants (para. 1.28). IBAS operates
as a unit of the Ministry of Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID)
and its General Manager reports directly to the Permanent Secretary of
MEPID. IBAS currently has 25 professional staff assisted by 19 extension/
support staff in Banjul and the four regional offices in Fara Fenni,
Bansang, Barra, and Basse. Although ILO and the Peace Corps provided
expert and volunteer assistance at one time or other to IBAS, since June
1987, no such experts or volunteers are deployed to this institution.
1.27     IBAS has three main departments, an Advisory Consultancy and
Extension Services unit, Training and Research, and Credit Control.
Respectively, these provide technical advice to small entrepreneurs in the
preparation of simple feasibility reports, conduct seminars and training
for entrepreneurs in relevant fields, and administer grant funds as loans
to informal SSEs. Some of IBAS's courses are offered in English but most



of them are in local languages. In conjunction with GTTI, IBAS has also
developed a two year course in self-employment which helps prepare young
people with technical skill3 for setting up and running their own small,
often inform&l business. IAS is funded entirely by the Government, and
its services are provided free of charge to indigenous entrepreneurs.
1.28     Another major function carried out by IBAS is to administer loans
in collaboration vith GCDB. Under a credit scheme funded by the United
Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the Government for SSEs which
do not generally have access to normal bank credit, about D700,000 was
disbursed (average loan size of about US$500). Although IBAS was in charge
af credit evaluation and supervision and was expected to assist in the
recovery process, the credit risk was borne by the Government (75 percent)
and the GCDB (25 percent). The scheme experienced an extremely high
default rate and was suspended in 1982. In 1985, IBAS received another
US$375,000 grant from UNCDF, supplemented by US$125,000 from the Government
to finance a revolving loan fund for SSEs.
1.29     While its support to potential and existing entrepreneurs has been
more or less successful, its loan administration function has failed, and
problems with the latter are beginning to detract IBAS from its principal
functions (one-third of the professional staff are concerned with loan
processing and loan supervision). The poor performance of IBAS
administered loans is primarily attributable to the fact that the specific
functions and duties of the individual institutions involved in these loan
schemes (GCDB, MEPID, IBAS and UNDPi were not clearly defined, so that the
task of monitoring and collecting on sub loans seemed to fall on no
particular institution. As a result, political interference, inadequate
equity bases for many of the benefici.iry enterprises and poor collection
efforts combined to result in high detfault rates under the scheme. Also,
IBAS's civil service affiliation had prevented it from attracting and
maintaining quality staff, from being businesslike in its approach to SSE
assistance, and from actively generating business opportunity ideas to help
its clients grow from informal sector enterprises to formal SMEs in the
mainstream of the Gambian economy.
1.30     In order to improve the capacity of IBAS to provide satisfactory
advisory and extension services, the Government has decided to restructure
it by (i) giving IBAS managerial and financial autonomy by de-linking it
from the Ministry and giving it its own Board akin to the arrangements for
NIB (para. 1.39); (ii) giving IBAS a private sector orientation which would
steer it away from its current structural limitations as a civil service
organization; (iii) de-linking its salary structure from the civil service,
which would enable IBAS to attract and keep competent staff by offering
competitive salaries; and (iv) allowing it to initiate cost recovery by
charging fees for some of its services to businesses. Further, cross
representation between the Boards of IBAS and NIB is envisaged, so that the
valuable experience of the latter can benefit the restructured IBAS. Given
IBAS's importance in assisting the informal sector and in helping their
transition into the formal SME sector, IDA reviewed at the time of credit
negotiations, Government's policy paper on the reorganization as well as
the plan for IBAS's effective transformation (para. 3.10). In addition,
the Government will submit to IDA the draft legislation of this operation
(para. 4.03 (ii).



-9-
b) MDI
1.31     The Management Development Institute (MDI) is an in-service
training, research and consulting institution established in 1984 to
promote management development and help improve managerial efficiency and
to enhance professional competence in management. It started operation in
1986. Initially, MDI concentrated on providing training to iliddle level
public servants, and its courses were therefore centered around the needs
of the public service rather than private companies and individuals. In
the past year, however, in response to the needs of the ZRP and its
mphasis on the development of the private sector, courses more directly
relevant to business needs have been developed. At the operational level,
the Institute is organized in three sections: General Management and Public
Administration, Public Management, and Financial Management.
1.32     Headed by a Director with significant experience in management
training, the MDI has 11 full time staff/professors in financial
management, project management, accountancy, and general management. In
addition to courses of general interest to managers of public and private
organizations, MDI offers courses for the Association of Accounting
Technicians and a USAID sponsored course in entrepreneurship in English and
the local language, which supplements the self-employment course developed
and offered by IBAS and GTTI. This course includes training in business
planning, financial management, market studies, and product improvement.
1.33     Since MDI is new and has few (though excellent) facilities, it3
enrollment has been relatively modest (142 in 1986 and 109 in 1987), but it
has performed well over its short history and has enabled Government and
public institutions to offer their staff a more comprehensive training
program than they could provide with their own resources. Under the
proposed operation, the MDI will, with the assistance of the Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC), increase its private sector orientation by
developing courses and providing training to staff of commercial banks in
project evaluation and appraisal, and to staff of SHE support institutions
(IBAS, NIB, etc.) in assistance to SMEs. The project will also finance an
expansion of the classroom space of MDI to enable it handle the expected
increase in its enrollment (para. 3.11 (ii)).
c) Other Support Institutions
1.34     The GTTI (Gambia Technical Training Institute), which was
established in 1983, provides technical training to academically educated
but technically unqualified Gambians principally in the private sector.
GTTI has 83 staff of which about 50 are professional, and has since its
inception provided technical training to some 1200 part-time and 240 full-
time students. GTTI seems to have sufficient funding from the Government
and bilateral agencies, and will continue to offer training in self-
employment to potential entrepreneurs and in technical skills to SMEs.
1.35     The NIB (National Investment Board) assists large businesses in
the same way as IBAS does for smaller informal enterprises, and is
described in detail in para. 1.39. Through its Investment Promotion Unit
(IPU), it will continue to encourage private investment by assisting
entrepreneurs in preparing feasibility studies and identifying business



- 10 -
opportunities for the private sector. It has also prepared an Investors'
Guide (para. 1.21).   In 1987, the NIB was made a *one-stop  center of
assistance to domestic and foreign investors, and the investment promotion
duties of the Industrial Development Unit (IDU) of MIPID were transferred
to it. It is thus the main link between the investor and Government
agencies and helps facilitate the permit/approval process.
1.36     The GVFC (Gambia Women's Finance Company) was set up in 1987 to
provide assistance to women entrepreneurs and facilitate their access to
formal term credit. An affiliate of Women's World Banking (WWB), an
international organization experienced in tecMiical assistance to women
businesses and in the establishment and operation of guarantee mechanisms,
the GWPC will provide technical assistance to businesswomen and collaborate
in finding means to provide collateral, co-signers and/or guarantees for
SMEs owned and/or managed by women. It will also assist the MDI in
designing approptiate courses for businesswomen and market this service to
its clients. Given the obstacles faced by such enterprises in The Gambia
(para. 1.15), this project will assist the GWF to provide the proposed
additional incentives to women businesses. A portion of the line of credit
component of this project will also be sub-allocated to finance sub-loans
for SMEs of women entrepreneurs (para. 3.14).
1.37     Several non-Government organizations (NGOs) are active in The
Gambia and provide support to the private sector, including Save the
Children Fund (SCF), the Peace Corps, Action Aid, Catholic Relief Services,
and Freedom from Hunger. Typically these organizations help micro-
enterprises mainly in the rural areas by providing training and financial
support, and have been relatively successful with very small scale
assistance programs.
C. The Public Enterprise (PE) Sector
Size and Performance
1.38     The parastatal sector in The Gambia includes: (i) nine wholly-
owned PEs, primarily in the utilities, transport and comunnication sectors,
and the Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB); (ii) five wholly-owned
financial enterprises; and (iii) seven mixed enterprises with partial
Government ownership (mainly hotels). In comparison with other West
African countries, The Gambia has a relatively limited parastatal sector,
which, however, does have a significant economic and fiscal impact. In
terms of overall employment, the non-financial PEs account for
approximately 6,000 workers (25 percent of modern sector employment). The
sector is dominated by the GPMB, which accounts for approximately 85
percent of export earnings, 50 percent of aggregate PE revenue, and 30
percent of total PE assets. Through the late 19709 and early 1980s, the PE
sector experienced increasing losses and illiquidity, with increasing debts
to other PEs and to Government.  Annex IV sets out the main data on public
enterprises.
The Role of the National Investment Board (NIB)
1.39     In 1977, the Government established the NIB to act as its
oversight agency for the PE sector and to promote new commercial and



- 11 -
industrial ventures. The agency submits annual reports to the President
with respect to; (a) the performance of the PEs; and (b) its investment
promotion activities. The Board of NIB is made up of its Chief Executive,
the Auditor General, the General Manager of the CBG, the Permanent
Secretaries of MFT and HEPID, and a representative of the private sector.
NIB has five professional staff in its PE Monitoring and Supervision Unit,
five in its Investment Promotion Unit (IPU), and one in a newly established
Staff Development Unit. Under a technical cooperation project financed by
the CFTC, NIB benefits from the services of an Export Marketing Advisor.
1.40     NIB's annual reports include a brief summary of the financial and
operating performance of each parastatal, including joint ventures, and is
traditionally tabled in Parliament. In addition, NIB undertakes special
studies of enterprises at the request of the President, the responsible
minister or the enterprise itself. An NIB representative sits on the Board
of each PE, including the GCDB (para. 1.54-1.57).
The PE Reform Program
1.41     A major objective of the ERP has been to reduce the size and
burden of the PE sector and improve overall parastatal performance (para.
1.05). Under the SAL, a comprehensive PE reform program was aimed at:
(i) reducing the scope of the sector through divestiture of selected
Government holdings, particularly in the productive sectors (mainly
fisheries and hotels) where greater reliance would be placed on private
investment; and (ii) improving the performance of remaining PEs through a
number of measures including: performance contracts for the three largest
PEs (GPMB, GUC, GPA) to clarify enterprise/Government responsibilities and
provide incentives for improved performance; settlement of cross-debts
between Government and other PEs; tariff adjustments for the utilities and
transport companies to ensure more commercial operation; and revisions to
the legal and institutional arrangements to enhance managerial autonomy in
day-to-day operations by for example incorporating commercially oriented
PEs under the Companies Act.
1.42     Since the introduction of the ERP, several initiatives have been
taken to implement the proposed reform of the PE sector. A task force on
divestiture/rationalization developed a divestiture action plan which was
approved by Cabinet in November 1986, and prepared valuations for a number
of holdings. As a result, in 1987, Government's minority shareholding in
Standard Chartered Bank and CFAO (a trading company), and the Brikana ice
plant were offered to the public, a leasing agreement was concluded with a
foreign company for operating the wholly-owned Atlantic Hotel, and steps
were initiated to divest the minority holdings in Seagull Coldstores and
the African (Sunwing) Hotel.
1.43     Draft performance contracts were also prepared (with technical
assistance under an SPPF of $200,000) in 1986 for GPMB, GUC, and GPA.
After trial run contracts were successfully tested for GUC and GPA,
detailed contracts, incorporating a number of performance targets, have
been signed with GUC, GPA (July 1987-June 1988), and GPMB (December
1987-November 1988). Signature of full year contracts for these three PEs
by the beginning of 1988 was a structural benchmark of the IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility. In a second phase, the Government will extend the



- 12 -
exercise to the GPTC (the bus company), Gastel (telecommnications) and the
Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC). In addition,
there will be an annual review of the perfc -Ance contract exercise.
1.44     A study of the cross-debts between PRe, as well as with Government
was completed in June 1966, and clearance of cross-debts and arrears
relating to taxes and services was undertaken in September 1986. NIB
continues to monitor progress with the cross-debt elimination on a monthly
basis to ensure that PEs and Government are up to date in their payment for
services and taxes. Where the net amounts involved are beyond the capacity
of enterprises to repay (e.g. D56 million for GUC and D96 million for
GPMB), the cross-debts are being handled through the performance contract
exrcise or in the context of the IMF program.
1.45     Finally, Government has approved tariff increases for GUC, GPA's
ferry services and GPTC as part of a phased program to achieve financial
self sufficiency. The proposed project will provide technical assistance
and training to NIB to complement its resources in managing the ongoing PE
reform program, and will help selected priority PEs improve their
management, corporate planning, HIS, and accounting and budgeting (paras.
3.27-3.29).
D. The Financial Sector
Institutional Structure
1.46     The financial sector in The Gambia consists of the Central Bank
(CBG), a non-operating Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) which provided
agricultural credit from its establishment in 1981 until it ran into
difficulties in 1982, and three commercial bankss Standard Chartered Bank
Gambia Limited (SCBG), a subsidiary of Standard Chartered of London with
minority local private (10 percent) and Government (15 percent) ownership;
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie (BICI), a branch of
Senegal's BICI; and the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB) which
is fully owned by the Government. Financial information on the three
commercial banks is provided in Annexes VIII-XV. On instruction from the
Central Bank, the ADB ceased new lending in January 1983, and Government
has decided to liquidate it, with funds provided 'ide.; this project. The
non-bank financial sector includes two insurance companies, a postal
savings institution, and the Social Security and Housing Finance
Corporation (SSHFC). The GCDB is by far the largest of the commercial
banks, accounting for about two thirds of total commercial banking
activity. The relative importance of the three commercial banks in terms
of their deposit holdings and lending to companies and individuals is shown
in the table below and has been relatively stable over the past five years.



- 13 -
Depwosits and Advances of the Commercial Banks
(in D millions and percent)
Deposits                         Advances
Amount     Market Share        Jmount      Market Share
GCDB                82             49             218               88
SCBG               59              35              23                9
BICI                28             16               8                3
Total       169             100            249              100
1.47          The Central Bank of the Gambia (CBG) is responsible for
defining and implementing national monetary and credit policies and for
regulating the commercial banks. With the 1985 adoption of the ERP, the
CBG has tended to emphasize demand management in its regulatory role. The
most important regulatory tools of CBG are credit ceilings on the banking
system, a ceiling on credit to the Government, both determined with the
IM1, and a set of credit worthiness criteria which all banks must meet.
Although banks are free to set their lending rates, which are flexible, and
the interest rate structure is determined on the basis of a bi-weekly
tender system for treasury bills, the CBG seeks to encourage resource
mobilization by establishing a minimum rate on short term (90 day) time
deposits, currently 13 percent. As a financial institution, the CBG can
lend to the Government, and it also provides credit to banks through
rediscounting facilities.
1.48          In addition to respecting the credit ceilings, banks are
expected to observe the CBG's reserve requirements, which at present amount
to 6 percent of demand deposits plus 4 percent of savings and time
deposits, of which 80 percent must be kept on deposit at the CBG, with the
remaining 20 percent being held as cash. Also, 30 percent of a commercial
bank's liabilities must be held as liquid assets. As with most financial
institutions elsewhere, a limit also exists on exposure to a single
enterprise, and is currently fixed at 25 percent of the bank's net worth.
1.49          The CBG's supervision over the management and operation of
financial institutions has been based to a large extent on ensuring
compliance with reporting requirements, and to a lesser extent on on-sight
visits by banking inspectors. In view of the small size of the banking
sector and the quality of management of BICI and SCBG, this has so far not
constituted a problem. Enforcement by the CBG of its credit worthiness
criteria has, however, been uneven. In the past, BICI and SCBG have been
held to the criteria, while GCDB had consistently disregarded them without
CBG taking any steps to discipline it other than to debit its already
overdravn account at the Central Bank with charges and fees, until the
accumulating losses and resultant drain on the Government forced suspension
of GCDB's development lending activity and a severe contraction of its
commercial lending. GCDB is being reformed (paras. 3.12-3.13) as a pre-
requisite to its participation in the proposed project.
1.50          The CBG has a total staff of 135 at its only office in
Banjul, and employs three foreign experts. It is organized into seven
departmentss Administration, Banking Operations, Banking Supervision,
Currency, Research, Exchange Control and Internal. The CBG will act as the



* 14 -
apex institution for the proposed project, and all three commercial banks,
including the GCDB once it is rehabilitated, are expected to participate in
it. These institutions are described in the paragraphs below.
1.51          The SCBG began operations in The Gambia in 1901. and was
locally incorporated in 1978. Owned 75 percent by Standard Chartered of
London, with Gambian interests holding 25 percent, the SCBG has three
branches and 102 staff, of which 35 are professional. It has competent
management. The BICI has been operating in Banjul as a branch of BICI-
Senegal since 1968 and reports directly to the BICI headquarters in Dakar.
Like the SCBG, it has three offices in The Gambia, and has a staff strength
of 63, 22 of whom are professional. roth institutions consistently follow
sound banking practices and have been adequately profitable, with return on
equity for the past five years averaging 22 percent for BICI and 21 percent
for SCBG. Due to the relatively tight credit ceilings imposed on them by
the CBG, but also because of their inherent prudence, their loan portfolio
amounted to only about 25 percent of their total assets in 1986, with their
surplus funds invested in Government securities, particularly treasury
bills, with the rest in deposit accounts at the CBG.
1.52          Trade finance is the main area of activity for SCBG and BICI
and accounts for about 75 percent of their income. Lending by these banks
is predominantly sht.rt-term and takes the form of overdrafts and advances.
The main recipient sectors are distributive trades, building, tourism, and
transportation, which together account for over three-fourths of the
portfolio of both banks. Housing loans are limited, except for loans to
bank employees, and are primarily handled by the Social Security and
Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC).
1.53          Although both banks have so far concentrated on short term
commercial loans, they are interested in diversifying into long term
productive activities, provided long term funding and incentives are
available. At present, neither BICI nor SCBG have the capacity for
investment project appraisal. Consequently, this project will provide
training in appraisal and supervision for their staff (para. 3.11).
1.54          The GCDB is The Gambia's largest commercial bank, accounting
for more than half of total commercial bank assets, three fourths of total
loans and advances and less than half of total deposits. Set up in 1972,
GCDB has been the main source of institutional term credit in the country,
although its principal activity is commercial banking, with commercial
loans and advances representing about 80 percent of its portfolio. GCDB's
development activity is currently limited to loan collections. In 1978,
the GCDB obtained a US$3 million IDA line of credit (Cr. 814-GM) for
financing small rural and urban enterprises and technical assistance for
institution building. The experience under that project is detailed in
paras. 3.04 and 3.05.
1.55          GCDB's Board of Directors consists of seven members: the
Managing Director, three representatives of the Government, and the Chief
Executives of the GPMB, the GCU, and the NIB. The current Managing
Director has been with GCDB since its inception.   GCDB has 5 branches and
206 employees. It is organized into three main departments: accounting and
finance, commercial, and development which granted term loans for



- 15 -
investment projects until its activities were suspended because of poor
performance, and two support units, administration and inspection.   Half
of the personnel are vith the comercial department. The development
department currently employs 7 professional staff, in addition to its
manager who has been with the bank since it started.  The commercial
banking department is headed by a competent Gambian, and the accounting and
finance department by an expatriate who previously joined GCDB as advisor.
1.56          GCDB's lending activity is spread over a wide range of
sectors and ranges from short term commercial credit to loans for long term
capital investments.   Unlike the other two commercial banks, GCDB incurred
large losses from 1982 to 1987, with the result that it is currently
insolvent with a negative net worth of about D20 million as at June, 1987.
1.57          While external factors like poor performance of the Gambian
economy until 1984, the tight financial position of many PEs borrowing from
the GCDB, and political interference in credit decisions played a role in
the poor operational performance of the institution, internal factors such
as weak management, inadequate staffing and deficient operational
procedures also contributed to GCDB's financial disarray. Given its
importance in the financial system (para. 1.54), and recognizing the urgent
need for its financial and organizational reform so as to restore
confidence in the banking system, Government has already taken a number of
interim measures, now under implementation, to improve GCDB's financial
condition, and a program of interim internal corrective actions is being
implemented by GCDB's management (para. 3.12). Completion of the reform of
GCDB is a critical objective of the proposed operation (para. 3.01) which
provides for a diagnostic review, now completed, and significant technical
and training assistance to the GCDB. Based on the diagnosis, Government
has adopted a reform program for the GCDB. Satisfactory progress in its
implementation is a condition of GCDB's participation in the line of credit
ccmponent (para. 3.13).
Interest Rates and Resource Mobilization
1.58          Until recently all deposit and lending rates in The Gambia
were fixed by the Central Bank, and this often resulted in highly negative
interest rates in view of the then high inflation rate. To provide
additional incentives for resource mobtlization and for more rational
credit allocation, a flexible and market influenced interest rate policy
was adopted under the ERP.   A bi-weekly tender for 90-day treasury bills
among all financial institutions helps determine the CBG's Treasury Bill
discount rate, currently 16 percent. The Central Bank sets the minimum
rate on three-month time deposits at 3 parcent below the treasury bill
rate.   Banks are free to set their final lending rates to clients and the
level of their commissions. In practice, commercial banks have been fairly
quick to respond to changes in the treasury bill rate, and their current
lending rates range from 9 percent to about 30 percent. Annex V gives the
structure of recent interest rates. Current lending rates are positive in
real terms.
1.59          The liberalization of interest rates has led to a significant
increase in savings and to rationalization of credit. Total demand and
time deposits of the commercial banks increased by 36 percent to D231.4



- 16 -
million between June 1986 and June 1987. However, this growth has mainly
been in short term deposits, with the longest term deposits being of no
more than 12 months maturity.
Term Lending and SHEs: Need for the Proposed Credit
1.60          Since GCDB discontinued term lending in 1982, there has been
no institutional source of term loans. A significant pent up demand
therefore exists which the current deposit structure of the Gambian banking
system (i.e. skewed heavily towards short-term deposits) renders impossible
to satisfy. As a result, however, of the improved macro-economic
environment, characterized by market-determined interest rates and easy
convertibility of the dalasi (para. 1.05), the two other commercial banks
are showing more interest in this type of lending. This development merits
support. Inclusion of all the commercial banks in a program of term
lending for productive investments would not only satisfy some of the pent
up demand for term credit, but would introdue-e an element of competition
whose absence in the past might have contributed to the excesses of the
GCDB's development lending activity. The banks however need adequate
incentives to engage in term lending. First, their capacity to provide
term loans is limited by the short term nature of their deposits.
Secondly, the risks inherent in long term investment lending hinder the
banks from diverting funds from equally profitable and substantially lower
risk short term lending. Thirdly, although the banks have good credit
analysis expertise, this is not adapted to appraisal of long term
investment projects, and they will need to acquire the necessary skills.
Furthermore, current terms and conditions of banking loans are not tailored
to the requirements of SME investment projects, given the relatively short
maturities (usually less than 2-3 years).
1.61          The design of the proposed operation is intended to ease some
of these constraints and encourage commercial banks to provide term loans
for SMEs through the following meanst
(i)   banks would be allowed to select the projects they wish to finance
without any external interference, as they are taking the
counercial risk.  They would also receive funds under the line of
credit component at 3 percentage points below the CBG's Treasury
Bill rediscount rate, and would freely set their final lending
rates;
(ii)   tachnical assistance would be provided under the project by MDI to
the participating banks to strengthen their capacity to appraise
and supervise SME projects, and by IBAS and NIB to help SMEs to
prepare better feasibility reports and design bankable projects;
(iii)   credit extended to SMEs under the project would be made in local
currency, with the exchange risk being borne by the Government;
(iv)   incentives would be given to such institutions as the GWFC which
are establishing guarantee funds to ease access of businesses
ownedlmanaged by women to term credit; and



- 17 -
(v)   loans extended to SKEs and financed under the IDA Credit would be
outside the CBG's individual credit ceilings. The proposed
project would thus bring to participating banks a new business to
complement their traditional short-term activities.
II. IDA ROLE AND SECTOR STRATEGY
2.01     IDA's assistance to The Gambia in recent years has focussed on the
structural adjustment of the economy through macro-economic policy changes,
policy based lending, and assistance to improve the institutional support
structure to elicit a supply response to the policy reforms. In support of
the ERP, a Structural Adjustment Credit was approved in 1985, and a second
SAL is under preparation. Other policy-v!"PA sector operations are
intended to help boost effective utilization ot Axisting capacity, support
viable investments and reinforce sectoral and institutional reforms.
2.02     The 1985 macro-economic reformoe and the Gambian Government's
determination to maintain a liberal economic environment have paved the way
for the further development of the private sector. Recent sector work on
the constraints and potential for private enterprise development in The
Gambia and consultants' study on the institutional support system provided
a basis for dialogue with the Government on ways to develop productive
activities in the private sector. As a result, during appraisal of this
operation, IDA assisted Government in preparing a statement of policy for
developing private enterprises (Annex III), which, with the revised
Investment Code (paras. 1.19-1.20), is serving as the policy basis for the
project.
2.03     IDA's support for the Government's efforts to encourage private
initiative is based on: (i) fostering an institutional support system and
an incentives framework conducive to private investment especially in SMEs;
(ii) improving the quality of the financial system by rehabilitating the
GCDB and increasing incentives for commercial banks for term lending to
SMEs; (iii) supporting the ongoing parastatal reform program through
improved monitoring and divestiture; (iv) promoting the processing of
locally produced raw materials; and (v) developing managerial and technical
skills through training and extension programs. The proposed operation
forms an integral part of this strategy and is designed to increase the
role of two major actors in The Gambia's investment and growth process:
SMEs, a sector with high growth potential, and the banking system.
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Objectives and Justification
3.01     The main objective of the project is to enhance the role of the
formal private sector in the economy as part of the ERP. Specifically, the
proposed operation is intended to (i) generate new employment; (ii) nurture
the development of Gambian entrepreneurs; (4ii) improve the performance of
the largest bank (GCDB) and increase the participation of financial
intermediaries in the financing of SMEs. Reform of GCDB would improve
financial intermediation and credit delivery for the country as a whole and
inclusion of all the commercial banks in the project would broaden the
outreach for investment credit especially in the rural areas outside the



- 18 _
immediate Banjul area; (iv) develop in the banking as well as support
institutions a capacity to prepare, appraise and supervise SHE projects;
and (v) continue the PR reform program by strengthening the NIB as
oversight agency, particularly its capacity to monitor and evaluate PR
performance and implementation of performance contracts; by assisting in
the implementation of the divestiture program; and by providing technical
assistance to priority Pgs to improve their sanagement and performance.
The project would also help address the training and technical assistance
needs of woman entrepreneurs and facilitate their access to institutional
credit and, by supporting the proper evolution of hAS, indirectly
encourage the transition of informal enterprises into the formal economy.
3.02     IDA's involvemnt in the project would supplement its policy-based
lending for structural adjustment and would support the Government's
efforts to stimulate economic growth and increase employment while limiting
the short term negative socio-economic impact of adjustment on the
population. The package of financial and technical assistance provided by
the project would help the development of SMEs, a sector which has high
growth and employment generation potential, utilizes mainly local raw
materials, and is a breeding ground for developing a Gambian entrepreneural
class.
Lessons Learned from Previous SME Assistance Efforts
3.03     IDA'a experience with SME lending shows that such programs have
often been less than successful mainly because of (i) the bias against SHEs
in many countries' trade and pricing policies; (ii) the difficult access of
these to benefits granted under national investment codes; (iii) over-
reliance on one intermediary for channeling financial assistance, thus
reducing the chances for reaching enterprises in remote regions of the
country; (iv) excessive use of foreign advisors for delivering technical
assistance; and (v) lack of working capital funds for SMEs. The recent
policy and other reforms in The Gambia have removed many of the previous
discriminations against SMEs (paras. 1.17-1.24). The proposed project will
build on the lessons learned in SME financing by channelling its financial
assistance through all the commercial banks in the country, by providing
working capital financing for existing SMEs in the productive sectors, and
by relying on existing local SHE support institutions for delivering
technical assistance and training to SHEs.
3.04     A Rural and Urban Enterprises Project (Cr. 814-GM), which IDA
approved in May 1978 to finance technical assistance and a typical
development finance company line of credit through GCDB failed to achieve
its objectives, Both a Project Completion Report (PCR) and a Project
Performance Annual Review (PPAR) issued in 1986 showed that two-thirds of
the sub-projects it supported experienced serious difficulties, and the
financial intermediary (GCDB) remained ineffective at project completion,
and faced serious financial, organizational, and staff problems.
Organizational deficiencies, inefficient management, lack of experienced
staff, unsatisfactory internal procedures and controls, and political
intervention in the decision-making process contributed to thic poor
performance, as did inadequate project supervision and the recipients' poor
cooperation and receptivity.



- 19 -
3.05     Key lessons brought out in implementing the project included the
need to (i) ensure the existence of a minimum internal capacity (in terms
of management and staff) in the intermediary institution in order to render
external technical assistance effective; (ii) link the existing system for
providing training, extension and assistance to small and medium
enterprises to the program for providing financing to SMEs. Neither IBAS,
the mEin agency for technical support and management advice to SSZs, nor
the MDI and GTTI which provide management and technical training to staff
of SMEs were involved in that project; (iii) extend the implementation of
the line of credit to other comuercial ti"ks operating in the country.
Such an arrangement would not only hAve i. ected a measure of competition
into implementation of that component, bui would have resulted in a wider
distribution of the term credit in thte ccatry; and (v) precede such a
project with appropriate sector work to allow for inclusion in the
project's design of a policy package for the sectors to be assisted.
3.06     These conclusions and lessons have been taken into account in the
design of the proposed operation. First, the proposed project concentrates
on upgrading the quality of staff in the banks rather than providing
excessive external assistance whose full benefits might not be derived
because of inadequate internal capacity. Secondly, the institutional
support system for providing technical assistance and training to SMEs
forms an integral part of this project, since successful implementation of
an SME project requires an integrated package of financing and technical
assistance to enterprises before and after they are launched. In the third
place, this project is designed as an apex operation, and will involve all
commercial banks currently operating in The Gambia, and finally, the
project is based on significant prior sector work by both IDA and
international consultants with the aim of bringing to bear on it the
necessary policy and institutional factors impinging on the success of SME
development in The Gambia. In that respect, during preparation of the
project, an appropriate policy base was laid when the country's Investment
Code was changed to remove biases against the private SME sector and
Government adopted a Statement of Policy for the development of private
enterprises (paras. 1.19-1.20). (In order to improve the chances of
project success, intensive supervision is also planned to be provided by
IDA).
Proiect Description
3.07     The project, to be supported by an IDA Credit of US$10 million
equivalent, would have the following three componentss
(i) a human resources development component of US$3.0 million to
(a) reform and restructure the GCDB and provide staff training and
selected expert assistance; (b) expand the facilities of MDI so
that it can provide training to the participating banks to
strengthen their capacity to appraise and s9-pervise investment
projects and to staff of institutions involved in technical
support and extension services to SMEs; (c) assist and train staff
of the IDU and other agencies of the Government responsible for
administering the Development Act 1988; (d) equip an Apex Unit at
the Central Bank to handle the line of credit; (e) give logistical
support to the GWFC to assist women entrepreneurs; and (f) finance
the liquidation of the Agricultural Development Bank;



- 20 -
(ii) an investment component of US$8.3 million to finance SHE
investment projects; and
(iii)  a public enterprise reform c.mponent of US$1.4 million to continue
implementation of the Government's ongoing PE reform program.
Human Resources Development Component
3.08     Design and Features.  The human resources development component is
designed to strengthen through training the capabilities of local training
and extension institutions, as well as the capacity of banks to appraise
and supervise development projects, a:d to bring about institutional
refprms aimed at a closer linkage between credit delivery on the one hand
and promotional/technical assistance on the other.
3.09     The institutional reforms already undertaken during preparation of
this project are the transfer of the current investment promotion role of
the IDU at MEPID to NIB (para. 1.35), and clarification of the role of the
Company Registration Committee in relation to the Registrar General's
Department (para. 1.22). The remaining reforms have been initiated and
include restructuring of the Indigenous Business Advisory Service (IBAS) to
enable it to improve the delivery of technical and advisory services to
SSEs and transfer of the loan administration functions of IBAS to the GCDB
following their respective restructuring (para. 1.30).    A program to
reform the GCDB is also under way (paras. 3.12-3.13).
3.10     During appraisal, Government proposed measures to increase the
private sector orientation of IBAS (para. 1.30). At negotiations, IDA
reviewed Government's policy paper on reorganizing IBAS as well as the plan
for effectively transforming it into an autonomous and effectige agency.
Although IBAS will play a key role in this project as the main technical
assistance institution for SSEs, no funds are being included here for it in
view of the adequate funding it is receiving elsewhere. IBAS staff will
however benefit from the training to be provided by MDI (para. 3.11).
3.11     The project would provide assistance to:
(i)  NIB to help it develop and implement a program of investment
promotion and extension services to medium-scale enterprises, as a
complement to the services provided by IBAS to SSEs;
(ii)  MDI to finance the expansion of classroom space and new courses to
enable it to offer courses to the staff of commercial banks (GCDB,
BICI, and SCBG) in project appraisal and supervision, to the staff
of IBAS, IDU (for help in implementing the revised Development Act
- para. 1.20), GWFC and NIB on advisory assistance to SMEs, and to
ertrepreneurs in basic business skills. The GTTI will continue to
offer technical courses to employees of SMEs;
(iii)  the Apex Unit at CBG for a personal computer and related software
to manage the line of credit component and to the GWFC to design
and implement an effective guarantee and advisory support
mechanism for women entrepreneurs; and



- 21 -
(iv) the GCDB to implement an operational, financial and management
restructuring program and to *cquire expert assistance and provide
training for its staff. During project preparation, a PPF (para.
3.13) financed a diagnostic review (by independent consultants) of
GCDB's operational and financial condition as a basis for
formulating the restructuring program.
3.12     GCDB Reform. Recognizing the urgent need for reforming GCDB so as
to restore confidence iv the banking system, Government has already taken a
number of interim measures to improve GCDB's financial condition. These
measures included (i) a ten-fold increase in GCDB's authorized capital from
D5 to D50 million; (ii) the opening of GCDB's share capital to prospective
foreign (mainly development-oriented institutions) and private domestic
investors; (iii) conversion of an outstanding IDA credit of D6.4 million
into Government equity in GCDB; (iv) the conversion of D35 million of loans
and advances from the CBG into a long-term (15 years including a 10-year
moratorium) interest free subordinated loan; and (v) the establishment of a
Managed Fund into which some D73 million of Government-guaranteed lo ns
extended by GCDB (most of which were non-performing) have been transferred,
together with the cancellation of the corresponding GCDB liabilities to the
CBG. The GCDB will continue to collect these loans on behalf of the
Government on a commission basis. Progress satisfaction to IDA on the
collection performance is a condition of credit effectiveness. Internally
at GCDB, a comprehensive review of the portfolio is under way, as is
intensive staff training.
3.13     To complement these measures, the project would provide additional
assistance to reinforce GCDB's management and operational capabilities. A
$450,000 PPF approved in August 1986 has been used to finance, inter alia,
a diagnostic study of the GCDB. The diagnosis focused on the management
and collection of funds under the Managed Fund (para. 3.12 (ii)) and on
GCDB's financial restructuring needs, its management and staffing,
operations, systems and decision making processes as well as the medium
term dimensions (independence and participation of partners other than the
Government) necessary for improving its contribution to the efficiency of
the banking system. Based on the findings and recommendations of the
diagnostic study, a copy of which is in the Project File, Government has
adopted a restructuring program for GCDB to be financed under the project
(para. 4.03). The reinforcement of GCDB's management and operational
capabilities includes an overhaul of the Board to increase its private
sector orientation, recruitment of up to four banking experts, of whom one
would be put in the positioa of Managing Director, and another with overall
responsibility for operations and procedures. GCDB's financial
restructuring will include significant recapitalization and reform of other
parastatals (eg. GCU) whose fortunes have adversely impacted GCDB's health
in the past. Satisfactory progress in implementing the GCDB reform program
is a condition of its access to the line of credit component (para. 4.06).
3.14     Assistance to Women Entrepreneurs.  As mentioned earlier (paras.
1.14-1.15), women play an important role in the small and medium
enterprises sector, but their opportunities and contributions are
constrained by inadequate training and limited access to institutional
credit. To ease these constraints, the GWFC was set up in 1987 to help
establish and manage a fund to partially guarantee loans for women



- 22 -
entrepreneurs and to provide them with technical assistance (para. 1.36).
The guarantee fund is funded by contributions from businesses, the fund
raising activities of the GWPC, and matching funds from the WWB which
helped set up the GWC. An amount of US$225,000 from the proposed project
would be earmarked to (i) finance logistical support and the services of a
banking consultant to GWPC in these efforts; and (ii) undertake a survey as
an input to the types and modalities of assistance that can be provided
under this project and elsewhere to enterprises owned and/or managed by
omen.
3.15     Component Costs, Terms and Conditions.  The cost of the human
resource development component's elements is estimated as follows:
Local   Foreign      Total
C-------US$ '000 -)
GCDB Reform:
Logistics                            10       100        110
Staff Training                      10         70        8s
Resident Experts                      -       750        750
Logistical Support for Apex Unit          -s                  50
NIB$
Project Preparation Study             -        60         60
Advisory Services                    60        90        150
Promotional Budget                    -        70         70
GWsC:
Consultancy                           -       175       175
Logistics                            50        50        100
IDUs
Consultancy & Training                -       250        250
Training Facilities at MDI              150       555        705
Refund of PPF Advance (Studies,
Training, ADB Liquidation &
GCDB Diagnosis)                       -       450        450
Component Total                   280       2670      2950
3.16     Funds allocated for this component would be passed on as a grant
from the Government to the various beneficiaries and would be available for
commitment until December 31, 1997. The component would be managed on
behalf of the Government by the Project l4anager who would review requests
for financing before submitting them to IDA for approval.
Credit component
3.17     Size of the component.  Since 1982, there has been no source of
funds available through the banking system for financing long term
investments in The Gambia (para. 1.60). However, the commercial banks have
together approved an estimated D12.8 million (US$1.8 million) in medium
term loans annually over the past two years, and GCDB had an unprocessed
project pipeline of about D21.2 million (US$3 million) at June 1987. Based
on these, and on loan requests under the UNCDF and EEC grants administered
by IBAS, a line of credit component of US$5.4 million is planned, given
that commitment is expected to be over a 3 year period.



- 23 -
3.18     Institutional ArranRemnts and Iliuible Intermediaries.  The line
of credit would be available under an Apex arrang ement to all three
commercial banks (GCDB, SCBG, and DICI). The Central Bank will act as the
apex institution and administer the component on behalf of the Government.
The signing of a Subsidiary Financing and Management agreement between the
Government and the CBG satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 4.04 (ii)). A CBG circular outlining the conditions
and procedures for the utilization of the line of credit (eligibility
criteria for beneficiary enterprises and investment subprojects, procedures
for subproject processing, terms and conditions for subloans and repayment
by the banks, subloan administration, procurement, disbursement and
reporting requirements) was discussed and agreed with IDA at negotiations.
Its issuance by the CBG to the commercial banks (Annex XVI) will be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 4.04 (iii)).
3.19     All three commercial banks will be eligible to participate in the
line of credit subject to their compliance with prevailing laws and banking
regulations including the CBG's credit worthiness criteria. Both SCBG and
BICI have expressed their interest in participating and have obtained the
necessary approvals from their head offices. They are presently in
compliance with the CBG's credit worthiness criteria and are expected to
remain so. GCDB does not currently meet these criteria on account of its
poor financial condition, and will only be eligible once IDA is satisfied
with progress in the implementation of its rehabilitation program (paras.
3.13 and 4.06). Participation by a bank is subject to its signing a
participating agreement with the CBG (para. 4.05) stipulating inter alia,
that it would:
Ci) comply with the terms and conditions of the credit as stipulated
in the CBG circular (para. 3.18);
(ii) designate qualified staff to manage the credits financed by the
project;
(iii) perform satisfactory subproject appraisals and submit required
appraisal reports to the apex unit;
(iv) ensure that resources are used by the final borrowers for the
purposes intended;
(v)  satisfactorily supervise subprojects and provide periodic reports
on their status, including information on the assistance needs of
beneficiary SMEs to the apex unit;
(vi) adhere to the terms of lending and repayment of loans; and
(vii) provide the apex unit and IDA with such information as they would
reasonable request.
3.20     A draft participating agreement has already been discussed and
agreed with the banks, the Apex unit and Government and is available in the
Project File. Signature of the participating agreement between CBG and at
least one of the commercial banks will be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 4.04).



- 24 -
3.21 .    ligible Beneficiaries and Subproiects.  All existing SHEs in the
productive sectors (i.e. with the exception of pure trade, real estate, and
subsistence agriculture) with total net assets before the project of less
than US$400,000 would be eligible for the line of credit. For new
operations, the total size of the project would also be limited to
US$400,000. The line of credit would finance (i) fixed assets and
associated permanent working capital for new operations or
extensionslrehabilitations; and (ii) free standing working capital for
existing S... in the productive sectors.  The aggregate amount of subloans
for free standing working capital financing would be limited to US$0.5
million. The line of credit would finance foreign as well as local costs.
In view of their special difficulties in gaining access to bank credit,
US$1 million of the line of credit component will be sub-allocated
specifically to finance SHE subprojects of women entrepreneurs.
3.22     The following conditions will apply to subloans:
(i) subloans of over US$50,000 would be required to show an expected
financial rate of return of at least 15 percent. For those above
US$100,000, economic rates of return will be calculated by the
commercial banks, and should exceed 10 percent;
(ii) subproject costs for extensions should not exceed US$400,000;
(iii)  total subloan size should not exceed US$300,000.  Subject to IDA
agreement, an SME which has previously benefitted from a subloan
under this project could be eligible for a second loan provided
(a) it meets the eligibility criteria at the time of the second
subloan request; (b) it has not at any time been in arrears of
over three months in servicing its first loan; (c) it has paid off
at least 75 percent of the first loan; and (d) the sum of the
first and second subloan approvals do not exceed US$300,000; and
(iv) the projected debt to equity ratio should be no more than 3 to 1,
and the debt service coverage ratio no less than 1.5, with the
ratios calculated on the basis of the enterprise's total debts,
including those to be incurred under the subproject;
3.23     Terms and Conditions of Financing.  The credit component would be
onlent by the Government, through the Central Bank, to the banks in local
currency at 3 percentage points below the CEG's Treasury Bill discount
rate, currently 16 percent. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government for a fee implicit in the differential between the onlending
rate to the banks (13 percent at present) and the cost of IDA funds
(currently 0.5-0.75 percent p. a.). The manner in which the onlending rate
is determined under this project would be reviewed annually with IDA. Of
the interest accruing to Government, the Apex unit in the Central Bank
would keep 2 percentage points to cover its costs of administering the line
of credit. The final lending rates to beneficiary enterprises will be
market determined, and the participating banks, who would assume the credit
risk for their loans, would be free to set these.
3.24     Subloans to final beneficiaries would range from three to twelve
years, including appropriate grace periods. Since the funding made



- 25 -
available under the line of credit wfiuld not be part of the normal Central
Bank refinancing facility, and since the IDA credit provides direct foreign
exchange coverage, subloans made under the line of credit would not be
included in the calculation of individual bank credit ceilings.
3.25     Sublomn Processing and Administration. Subprojects would be
prepared by the beneficiary enterprise, with assistance from supporting
agencies as needed, and submitted to the participating bank (PB) of their
choice.  Subproject appraisal will be the responsibility of the PB which
would review the subproject in accordance with its own procedures and would
prepare an appraisal report for submission to the Apex unit at the CBG for
refinancing under the line of credit. The PB will make the credit decision
and bear the credit risk. The appraisal report would cover relevant
information on the enterprise and the proposed investment, including
technical, financial and economic viability and ecological soundness. The
Apex Unit at the CBG would review the report to ensure compliance with the
project criteria (para 3.22) as well as the PB's compliance with the CBG's
credit worthiness criteria, and would give its non-objection for
refinancing under the line of credit within one week for subloans less than
US$50,000 and within one month for all other subloans. Financial rates of
return would be required for all subloans over US$50,000, and for those in
excess of US$100,000, economic rates of return would be calculated. The
first three subloans from each PB would be subject to prior review by IDA,
after which IDA would set a subloan free limit for each PB (expected not to
exceed US$50,000 per subproject) based on appraisal standards.
3.26     Financial intermediaries would be responsible for supervising
beneficiary enterprises/subprojects, for maintaining records adequate to
monitor the implementation of subprolects, and for reporting to the Apex
Unit on their progress. Supervision reports would be submitted by the PBs
to the Apex unit at least once a year until subproject completion.
Public Enterprises Reform Component
3.27     The project will provide technical assistance to (i) NIB to manage
the PE reform program, with particular emphasis on divestiture and
performance contracts; and (ii) selected priority PEs for improvements in
their management, corporate planning, MIS, accounting and budgeting. The
assistance to NIB will include consultancy services to help with valuations
of larger holdings and preparation of prospectuses/information circulars;
review of corporate plans/performance contracts; seminars on the
performance of relevant PE reform programs overseas; analyses of sector-
wide issues and enterprise-specific problems; and logistical support
through provision of office and other equipment. The parastatals will
benefit from assistance to prepare corporate plans and restructuring
programs, financial and management audits, improvements in MIS/accounting
and budgeting systems, and financial and technical studies/reviews.
3.28     The base cost of this component is estimated at US$1.18 million,
of which US$755,000 would be assistance to the NIB for management of the
reform program, and US$425,000 for assistance to individual PEs. The
detailed costs of individual items of this component is available in the
Project File. Prior to negotiations, Government prepared a progress review
and implementation plan for the divestiture program, setting out the



- 26 -
Government's proposal for divestiture over the next 12 months; the
procedures to be followed in the divestiture process; and constraints and
recmunendations (para. 4.02 (vii)). Throughout project implementation,
Government will submit for IDA review and coment on an annual basis: the
proposed divestiture program for the following year; a core program for
NIB; and progress reviews of the PZ improv eme nt program, divestiture
program and performance contracts.
3.29     Items to be financed under this component will be approved on an
individual basis by IDA, based on submissions by NIB. NIB will be
responsible for implementing this component and will submit quarterly
reports to IDA on the status of project activities, including the hiring of
consultants and proposed disbursements. Technical assistance and
consulting services will be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Terms of reference, contr2cts and selection of consultants will be approved
by IDA.
Project Cost and Financing
3.30     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.6 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$9.6 million (71Z).
Cost estimates include US$0.95 million to cover physical and price
contingencies of the Human Resource Development and PE Reform components of
the project (202 for physical contingency and 102 for price escalation for
1988 and 3.5? from 1988 to 1997). Annex XVIII details the project cost
estimates. Below are summary of the project cost and expected financing:
Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
(USS million equivalent)
Local     Foreign   Total   Percent
Estimated Prolect Cost
Tnvestments (Credit)            3.32       5.00      8.32    61.2
Human Resource Development      0.28       2.67      2.95    21.7
Public Enterprise Reform        0.20       1.18      1.38    10.1
Price & Physical Contingency   0.20        0.75      0.95      7.0
Total                     4.00        9.60     13.60   100.0
Financing Plan
SME subborrowers                2.00        -        2.00    14.7
Participating Banks             0.95        _        0.95      7.0
Government                      0.65        -        0.65      4.8
Proposed IDA Credit             0.40       9.60     10.00    73.5
Total                      4.00        9.60     13.60   100.0
3.31     The proposed IDA credit of US$10 million would cover 73.5 percent
of the total cost of the project (90.5 percent of the cost of the human
resource development component; 85.5 percent of the PE reform corponent;
and 64.9 percent of the investment component).  The remaining 26.5 percent
would be financed by SHE borrowers (14.7 percent), participating banks (7.0
percent) and the Government (4.8 percent).



- 27 -
Proiect Implementation
3.32     Project Management.  Two senior staff of the credit department of
the CBG have been identified to form the Apex unit to manage the line of
credit component and the Special Account (para. 3.37) to be established for
disbursements under the project. The project will provide funding for
office equipment and initial supplies for the proper functioning of this
unit. In addition, the HFT, being the central Government department
responsible for this project, has appointed (with IDA's concurrence), in
the office of the Permanent Secretary (PS), a Project Manager to approve,
in consultation with the Permnent Secretary(s) of MEPID and MFT, all
requests for financing under the human resources development component.
The Project Manager will also be responsible for reviewing the work
programs of the various agencies in the project to ensure consistency in
content and coverage of the promotion, marketing and assistance needs under
the project. The PS of HFT will act as Project Coordinator for the entire
project and will, with the Project Manager, a representative of the
commercial banks, and the Apex unit at CBG, form the Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC), which will be the implementing agency for the project.
3.33     The PCC will liaise with involved agencies to organize publicity
seminars as needed to market the operation throughout the country and will
assume the coordination of all components of the project with the objective
of translating (i) the promotional and training efforts into viable
projects financed under the line of credit component and (ii) the
experiences and lessons of previously approved subprojects in
implementation into better focused promotion and assistance efforts. Annex
XIX shows the terms of reference of the PCC.
3.34     Procurement and Disbursement  Procurement for subprojects financed
under the investment component of the Credit would be made in accordance
with normal procurement procedures of the participating banks, which are in
line with commercial practices. These procedures, which require quotations
from three different suppliers, have been reviewed and found acceptable to
IDA.  Procurement of equipment (personal computers etc) for SHE support
institutions and for the Apex unit, which will not exceed lots of
US$50,000, would also be on the basis of prudent shopping requiring
quotations from three different suppliers. Local competitive bidding
methods would be used for the construction of classroom space for the MDI
(para. 3.11 (ii)). Selection of consultants would be made in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines.
3.35     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
Human resources development and PE components: 100 percent of the
net of taxes cost-of consultants, and training;
100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of goods imported, and 90
percent of the cost for materials and supplies available
locally.
SME subloans: 100 percent of expenditures up to 75 percent of total
subproject costs.



- 28 -
3.36     The project disbursement schedule (Annex XX) is based on the
disbureement schedule for similar SHE projects in Africa. It is expected
that the credit component would be disbursed in nine years and the
technical assistance component over five years. Disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1998.
3.37     SDecial Account.  To expedite disbursement of funds, a special
account would be set up at the Central Bank into which IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$0.5 million equivalent from the proposed credit
imediately after credit effectiveness. This amount represents an
estimated average disbursement of funds over a four-month period, adjuste*.
for repayment of the PPF advance made for project preparation.
Replenishment of the Special Account for expenditures under US$40,000 r-ood
be made under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for
withdrawals made under SOEs would be reviewed a priori by the PCC and
retained by the Apex unit for ten years and would be reviewed by IDA
supervision missions. Replenishment of the Special Account for a minimum
of US$100,000 would be submitted on a monthly basis or whenever funds art
below US$250,000. The Special Account would be audited annually by
independent auditors and the audit reports would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the end of the fiscal year.
3.38     Auditing and Reporting.  All participating banks will, in
accordance with the CBG's standard requirements, provide a copy of their
audited accounts to the Apex unit within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. The PCC will have the Special Account and SOEs audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and will furnish these
together with the management letter relative thereto to IDA within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. The NIB, as implementing agency for
the PE component, will submit through the PCC to IDA quarterly progress
reviews on the performance of that component, an annual work program for
the following year, and its audited report within six months of the end of
its fiscal year.   The PCC will also submit to IDA half yearly and annual
progress reports on the investment and human resources development
components and will prepare the Project Completion Report within nine
months of the project's closing.
Proiject Benefits and Risks
3.39     Benefits.  The project will represent the first comprehensive
program in The Gambia for the promotion of, and assistance to private
enterprises, principally small and medium enterprises. It is intended to
help generate a supply response following on the policy reforms under the
Government's ERP by providing the hitherto missing support mechanisms. The
integrated package of incentives and improved regulatory framework,
institutional support and credit delivery would yield substantial benefits
to The Gambia by strengthening existing enterprises, generating new viable
projects, and helping to ease the transition of informal enterprises into
the formal sector. The specific steps envisaged in the Government's
Statement on Private Enterprise Derelopment Policy are expected to create a
positive environment for private sector investments, and more fully exploit
the country's economic potential (other than groundnuts) through the
development of a more active entrepreneurial base, improved financial
intermediation and credit availability to the private sector.



- 29 -
3.40     Institutional reform and financial rehabilitation of GCDB, the
largest commercial and development bank in The Gambia, would result in
strengthening the overall financial sector. The line of credit component
would not only make available resources for term financing of both new and
rehabilitation investments, but would also put in place an apex mechanism
which will involve the two commercial banks, SCBG and DICI for the first
time in term lending. It will also help support aggregate investments
estimated at about US$8.3 million and create about 1,400 new jobs at a
relatively low cost of US$6,000 per job. The impact of the project is
expected to be widely dispersed both geographically and among various
income groups, with benefits reaching subborrowers in the regions outside
the immediate Banjul area. The proposed earmarking of portions of the line
of credit for women entrepreneurs will encourage their active involvement
in economic activities, as will the special assistance designed to provide
some measure of guarantee for their loans. The human resources development
component would also help improve the quality of management of development
projects in the country by developing within the commercial banks an
expertise in appraisal and supervision of development projects and by
strengthening the capacity of existing Gambian institutions to provide
assistance to SHEs.   Finally, the PE component will help the Government in
reducing the size and burden of the PE sector through divestiture thus
indirectly enhancing private sector activity, and improve the performance
and autonomy of the remaining strategic PEs.
3.41     Risks.  As the first apex operation in The Gambia, the project
involves institutional arrangements that are new to the participating banks
and to the Central Bank. Some delays in subloan processing may therefore
occur as the CBG familiarizes itself with the system and as participating
banks take time to strengthen their capacity to appraise and supervise SHE
projects. This risk would however be considerably reduced by rapid
implementation of the technical assistance components and close supervision
by IDA during the initial phase of project execution. Another risk, which
relates to GCDB's ability to successfully implement its rehabilitation
program and achieve institutional viability, is mitigated by the commitment
of its management and Government toward such objectives and conditionality
under this project (para. 3.13). A third risk relates to the progress of
the PE divestiture program, which depends very much on investor interest
and the overall economic outlook. This risk should however be minimized by
the Government's continuing commitment to the success of the Economic
Recovery Program and to private sector development, as well as the
incentives and institutional support measures provided under the project.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED
4.01     Prior to credit negotiations (i) independent consultants were
recruited to undertake a diagnostic review of GCDB's operations (para.
3.13). The diagnosis was completed on June 3, 1988 and formed the basis
for a restructuring program for the GCDB (para. 3.13); (ii) an Apex Unit
manned by suitably qualified personnel was established at the CBG to manage
the line of credit component (para. 3.22); and (iii) a Project Manager was
appointed in the office of the PS of MFT (para. 3.32).
4.02     During negotiations, the following assurances, agreements and
understandings were reached with Government:



- 30 -
(i)  onlending arrangements for the Government, the Central Bank, the
participating banks and beneficiary SHEs (paras. 3.16, 3.21, 3.22,
3.23, and 3.24), and the contents of the agreement to be signed
between the CBG and participating banks (paras. 3.19-3.20);
(ii) establishment of a Special Account at the Central Bank (para.
3.37);
(iii) changes relating to the Company Registration Committee, and
devolution of company registration responsibility to the Registrar
General's Department (para. 3.09)s
(iv) the Statement of Private Enterprise Development Policy (para.
1.19). a sanitized version of which to be publicized by the PCC;
(v)  reorganization of IBAS (para. 3.10) and eventual transfer of its
loan administration functions to GCDB (para. 3.09);
(vi) PE progress review and implementation plan for divestiture program
(para. 3.28);
(vii) subloan processing and administration procedures (para. 3.25); and
(viii)  plan to recover loans under the Managed Fund (para. 3.13).
4.03     Since credit negotiations, the final adopted program for GCDB's
restructuring (para. 3.13) has been sub-uitted to IA.
4.04     Conditions of Effectiveness.  The proposed conditions of credit
effectiveness are (i) progress satisfactory to IDA on the collection
performance under the Managed Fund (para. 3.12); (ii) signing of the
Subsidiary Financing and Management Agreement between the Government and
the CBG; (iii) issuance by the CBG of a circular, satisfactory to IDA,
outlining the onlending terms and conditions for the line of credit (para.
3.18); and (iv) signature of the participating agreement between the CBG
and one of the commercial banks (para. 3.20).
4.05     Condition of Disbursement.  The signing of the Participating
Agree ent between the Central Bank and each participating bank will be a
condition of disbursement for that participating bank (para. 3.19).
4.06     Special Condition.  Progress satisfactory to IDA on implementing
the GCDB reform progras will be a condition of GCDB's access to the line of
credit component (para. 3.13).
A512
November 30, 1988



ANNhX I
31 -
1H OGAUZ  - WITPRIU # VEIPIWT PROJECT
Qree Dematie Prodct by Secor
19 U/34 - 1in?,6"
(In *lliIT of daoloasi  at cee_tt 1976/77 price)
198U1/04   1904/65   193U/36   1996/37   1917/31
Agriculture                                   119.8    127.6       1U.2      148.      158.2
Oroundnut.                                   40.7       87.6      27.1      89.5      42.9
Other Crops                                  40.1       40.4      66.2      U.3        a.$
LIvostock                                    80.5       U2.8      83.       84.8      85.8
Fishing                                       5.9        6.2       4.2      18.9      18.9
Forestry and Logging                          2.2        2.1       2.4       2.5       2.5
Industry                                       89.4       88.2     U8.4       44.0      47.2
Manufacturing                                26.5       28.3      28.3      26.8      27.1
Construction 1/                              12.4       18.1      11.1      16.1      17.7
Electricity and Water                         1.5        1.8       1.5       1.6       1.6
Services                                      221.0      226.2     215.6     227.5     240.1
Trade                                        67.6       91.7      W5.C      37.4      92.4
Of which: marketIng of groundaut           (26.4)    (13.0)   (GS.9)    (19.8)    (12.0)
Hotels and Restaurants                        18.7      16.2      17.4      17.8      17.9
Transport and Coi_unicate ons                29.6       88.6      289.      40.1      44.5
Real Estate and Businese Services            26.4       25.5      24.6      26.       27.7
Oovernmnt Servico                            56.4       52.0      58.2      49.1      50.8
Other Services 2/                             7.7        7.0       0.0       7.2       7.4
GDP at Factor Cost                            879.7      892.1     897.1     4190.     440.5
Indirect Taxes lose Subsidies                  42.8      48.1       46.9      $7.6      42.8
00W  at Constant Market Priesm                422.0    485.2       454.0    467.6    402.7
Memorandum Items:
GOP Deflator (1976/77 a 1.00)               1.42       1.55      1.96      2.86      2.65
coP at Current Market Price               5396.5     672.7     369.$    1076.1   1275.0
Percentage Change In R"l GOP                4.6        8.1      (0.8)      5.4       5.5
Percentage Change In Nominal GOP           18.4       12.4      27.7      25.5      16.8
Percentage Change In GOP Def lator         16.2        9.1      2t.1      19.0      12.1
Source: Cabian AuthorItTi-
1/ Includes mining, which Is very smll.
2/  Includes banking and insurance; mputed bank service charge;
personal and household services; and socil, recreational,
and related erviess.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
M    MI  -               9 0     ~
~~~~~~~~~~~CT11l TA                                                     ItlAi TO  "! T
1. UoWI                  iesN                      U*redea  a f* libl Itrbt ab
MIt                                            :Fh" 4w         of *D*m4g rate,
derteueeS  Ist January  IWS.
The arstom Is mtime wel. I
i. i1AM                 mee  to poia_ te          Mm Iveotetn Co                       leadinistrative
DXIWS                I  eostmet eade           (Dae Iemot Aet) smooted             whidol moo.
1liffiv1             (Devlopagme  Ae)lf~ri -'m  I" Fobruary.
to mks elib1i1 it           I
criteria for best t
taprest and              ProW  a  lise  In Doo*er    AmeA the Inv_eter                     Nis
w_    an X1voo.wal outdo 1ami. In l ight of the
outing tm ed - Use of               mm orfSil antiesi
Irnved r  In Tho (Immils 1          *teeturo for
NW giving  aides_  on               vrew  ien/tacnsioel
premedure..                         serv ices.
S. mr  *r
PSTltN               High degedenc,os          Abel lattod In y tIB all
reudn     for            expert te.. sn f ih   d fi
*N pe" "1                 tresg
Prepered a Cebblst paoer on            lamet the_ maarde         WT. _ur
exportru tion In cntiveas           to  re   expo 
for lho tiultre.                    horticulture'redo.
4. PCR   AN  TWAllE      nesa only a to           Aboel lobed t1o Price Control
in.LATIONS           comodities had their   Administration in January lug.
prl co ontrol led
ontil the initiation    DOecontrolled cou_mr price of
of the Owl   Price       rice and privatized O _ relal
Control Administrtlon   rice impoettion
ueed to publish price
guidelins  and           Anounoid do-control of fertilizer
msitorid prices (was      rie. anJ liberalized its
not effective)  no       distribution
Imprt  IIon ner.
S. TAX SiT              High earginol Inome_  Kglementd reform  f ht    I:                     n  masure  to    1    T
te  rte  and              Ineme tax In February. I .          lprow  tae   da-
widiereed ton evasion.                                       traiton.
6. lUmSD                Tho Compnw  kgistra-    Changed term_ a  referesce of
11=TIO               tieon Coitto, Cmc)        the I-C an  Regtotrar-asiral
could     tit ly act   has heen givesn sol reeponil-
as an induotriul         bility for compasy registrw-
llcesans  syste  and     tison.
a barrier  enstry.
The eumplimstery                                             Abol tb supplemestary         WT  Departones
itcen-lnr reuirmeste                                         licesing requireomest        of loherlee
for firm  in the                                             for firm  In the fih
fishoplie  sector                                             proce_ing Industry.
adminsltered b1 Mmo
Dearasmt o  FI erlie
7. FiNICIL              Need for In itlutional  LIunched a public campaign to
#3C                  strengthning and          rowter. crdit rey_mnt
fisancial rhiabilitt-    discipline and       lishod a
tIen of   m               pcal lMistty of JustIce
Te6  Force to de l with
del nuest boriro lers.
Zelecated es Isterta-proga
rf  mr*ey a_re  In 1
ellevite   '- fInancle
problem.
Initlatod segeilotions with a      Concludi diagnosis and       wI. M. an
foreign firm fer a eorehesslve   agree and implemnt
dimenooil of a=no opersti on        TAoirmi or reform
*a *relude to previdins            for oaS
tchnIcaal ooites  to straighten
Ito anagement nd operatiUe.
Abience of term                                               teblil   n ao pse           IFT, Coo
laning,                                                      focilIt  at the lbO *nd
make It acceeible to
all comeercial bank..
*. DlITITUrICIAL        There i- duplIcation of  Carried out a study on the           Cha    legilation            mWo , Nis. Ii
UPWT SySTU           effort am" functions   Institutional ewpport  estei           on ISS  to de-link It
of NU,  UAS a  MM.   private enterprie..                     from the clviI iervico,
and need to buiwld  n                                        adot eorporat  plan
effcwtive institutionl  Hade MIU a onoe-op *esistanc        for Ito transformation
upport syst_ for         center for pen%tial invotorm,    and Implement it.
privat  enterpriee.    foreign an  demeotle.
A dieproportiontet       Propogal tebled to Cabinet te       Transfer IWc. loen           IWID  wi.
oere of wiai's tim       do-link ID    from civil service    portfolI*                    co, J-J
Is aet on loan           ad increae  Its private             and loan adainistration
procaing  nd             sector orientation                  functionse to a .
*d Inisitpatlos



ANNEX III
-33 -                           Page 1 of 7
THE GAMBIA - PRIVATE ENTEUPRISE DRVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Statement of Private Enterprise Development Policy
Introduction
1.       The Government of the Gambia launched an Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) in 1985 with two fundamental objectives to: (a) reduce the size of
the public sector and its role in productive activities; and (b) create a
favorable climate for private productive activity through the elimination
of exchange rate and pricing distortions, and selective other
rationalization of incentives. This Statement of Private Enterprise
Development Policy outlines the Government's policy regarding the role of
the private sector in the development of the economy, and what the
Government has done and intends to do to promote that role.
2.       The Government's overall policv is that the development of
productive sectors should mainly be lest to private entrepreneurs, with the
Goverrment concentrating on creating a business climate conducive to
private investment maintaining the country's infrastructure, and pursuing
macroeconomic policies designed to promote stable economic growth. Recent
studies studies have shown that there is a base and potential for the
private sector to grow, particularly in agro-industries, fishing and fish
processing, horticulture, tourism and related activities, and poultry.
There are, however, barriers to developments weak management, inadequate
technical and operative skills, limited project appraisal capability,
inadequate physical infrastructure, limited access to credit, and
deficiencies in the institutional support system. Measures have been
initiated to remove these constraints. The strategy of creating a positive
business environment has been and will continue to be pursued through an
integrated approach involving:
(a) improvement of the policy and regulatory framework;
(b) improvement of the institutional support system;
(c) improvement of the credit and banking system; and
(d) more limited direct public sector participation aimed at the
most effective use of available financial and manageral
resources.
The main objective in following this strategy is to develop an efficient,
competitive, resource-based, labor-intens:.ve and export-oriented private
sector. Actions that the Government has taken and/or intends to take in
each of the above areas are described in the paragraphs that follow.
Policy and Regulatory Framework
(i)    Policy Framework
3.       Flexible exchange rate policy.  Recognizing the importance of a
realistic exchange rate for the efficient allocation of resources, the
Government introduced on January 20, 1986 a flexible interbank market
system under which the dalasi has been allowed to float freely and foreign



ANNEX III
-34 -                            Page 2 of 7
exchange control procedures have been liberalized. Commercial banks now
make foreign exchange available freely to their customers without seeking
prior approval from the Central Bank. The Government has restrained itself
from competing with the private sector for the available foreign exchange
and has succeeded in establishing public confidence in the new foreign
exchange regime. The foreign exchange situation has improved
significantly. The official and parallel market exchange rates are more or
less at par, and the parallel market has shrunk considerably. The
Government intends to maintain the system and will continue to monitor the
interbank market carefully to preserve public confidence in the system.
4.       Liberal trade policies.  The Government does not intend to protect
enterprises that are inefficient and unable to survive in a competitive
situation. Trade policies will therefore ensure that the enterprises'
success depends on being efficient and competitive. The Government will
maintain liberal trade policies with generally low average customs tariff
(the average tariff rate is presently about 25X) and no quantitative
restrictions on competing imports. Although the average rates are
comparatively low, the overall structure of the cuatoms tariff is not
uniform. The Ministry of Finance and Trade, with assistance from USAID, is
currently carrying out a study of the customs tariff structure and its
impact on effective protection rates. When the study is completed,
Goveranent intends to review its findings in consultation with IDA prior to
Implementation of its recommendations.
S.       incentives for investors in productive sectors.  'he Government
has implemented a number of specific actions since the launching of the ERP
to provide incentives for private investors in productive sectors. In
particular, the Government has:
(a)   abolished, in May 1985, all export taxes (previously 18X) on
fish and fish products;
(b)   completed work on proposals to achieve better utilization of
the Kanifing Industrial Estate; and
(c)   issued in December 1986, an investor's guide stating the
advantages of investing in the country and giving guidance
on procedures.
6.       The core or incentives to the private sector is the investment
code (Development Act) which makes available a package of incentives to new
investors embodied in a Development Certificate (DC). The Government, in
consultation with IDA, has initiated a revision of the Act with a view to
making eligibility criteria for benefits under the Act simple, clear,
performance-related, time-bound, and quantifiable. The level of benefits
is to be standardized to reduce administrative complexity and discretion.
The schedule of eligible products is to be eliminated in the revised code
so as to open it up to all productive sectors. Guarantees are to be
provided against expropriation and for repatriation of foreign capital and
dividends. Provision is also being made for arbitration in case of
investment disputes. Priority activities for the purpose of granting
investment incentives are defined as those that are net foreign exchange
earners or savers, use local materials, are labor intensive, and contribute



ANNEX III
- 35 -                         Page 3 of 7
to spatial decentralization.  To avoid delays, decisions to award or not to
award a DC are to be taken within 90 days of application. The revised Act
is expected to be enacted by March, 1988.
7.       Duty drawback/suspension scheme.  Export incentives and promotion
services will be given to provide a return to exports that is equivalent to
that on domestic sales and compensate for disadvantages and costs that
would reduce export competitiveness. In order to diversify the country's
export base, the Government, in consultation with IDA, has initiated a
review of the feasibility of revising the existing provisions of The Gambia
Customs Tariff Act regarding duty drawbacks for manufactures exports with a
view to:
(a)   clarifying the provisions;
(b)   introducing amendments necessary to ensure that the drawback
system is available to all exports of domestic origin; and
(c)   establishing administrative procedures for efficient and
equitable application of the system.
8.       Pricing policy.  The Government believes that if enterprises are
to compete freely on the market and be able to cover changing costs of
production, they must be allowed to set their own prices. In order to
remove any remaining official interference in price determination, the
Government abolished the Price Control Administration in the Ministry of
Finance and Trade in January 1986, when the dalasi was floated. At
present, there are no price controls except for rates charged by public
utilities which are revised periodically.
(ii) Regulatory Framework
9.       There is little by way of business regulations.  The Government's
policy is to avoid administrative interference in private business. Import
restrictions apply only to goods whose importation is restricted for
security or health reasons. Imports of some commodities such as rice and
fertilizer used to be restricted to the Gambia Produce Marketing Board, but
have now been liberalized.
10.      The Government has introduced a program to make the National
Investment Board (NIB) a *one-stop* assistance center for potential
investors, foreign and domestic. Prior to this action, investors had to
deal with several government agencies when setting up new enterprises.
Previously, the Company Registration Committee (CRC) tended to act as an
industrial licensing system and a barrier to entry. The Government has
streamlined the duties of the CRC and given the Registrar-General sole
responsibility for registration. The supplementary licensing procedure for
firms in the fisheries sector (administered by the Department of Fisheries)
will be maintained for primary fishing because of the danger of
overfishing, but the requirement will be abolished for the fish processing
industry.
Institutional Support System
11.      The Gambia has devoted considerable attention and resources to the
promotion of enterprises. A number of institutions have been created to
promote and assist private enterprises. These include:



- 36 -                     ANNEX III
Paige 4 of 7
(a)   Industrial Development CIDU), a division of the Ministry of
Economic Planning and Industrial Development, focussing
specifically on the development of industrial activity and
reviewing DC applications;
(b)   National Investment Board (NIB), an autonomous Government
body, monitors parastatal activity and fosters private
investment;
(c)   Indigenous Business Advisory Service (IBAS) promotes small-
scale activity in the informl sector;
(d)   a number of training institutions--e.g., National Vocational
Training Centre (NVTC), Management Development Institute
(MDI), Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI), Hotel
Training School--have been established;
(e)   the Departments of Tourism, Water Resources, Agriculture,
Public Works and Co.anity Development each play important
roles in their respective spheres; and
(f)   there are many volunteer non-governmental organizations
active in the country directly or indirectly impacting on
enterprise development.
12.      The Government has continually make changes in the institutional
support system to improve the delivery of technical support and extension
services to private enterprises and intends to implement additional
measures to improve the situation. The respective roles of IDU and NIB
have been clearly defined to make the most effective use of the available
resources and eliminate wasteful duplication of functions. NIB has been
given exclusive responsibility for investment promotion and project
development, and effectively serves as a *one-stop* assistance center for
potential investors. It has embarked on assisting investors in preparing
project proposals and DC applications, IDU will continue to be responsible
for review of DC applications to determine if eligibility criteria are met
and make appropriate recommendations.
13.      In view of the difficulties that IBAS faces in its promotion and
extension assistance to mall-scale enterprises, Government intends to
restructure and strengthen it by de-linking it from the civil service,
allowing it to attract and keep competent staff by offering competitive
salaries, allowing IBAS to initiate partial cost recovery, and ensuring
transfer of accumulated expertise to it through cross-representation on its
Board with that of NIB. In appointing the Board of IBAS, the Government
will be guided by the objective of bringing together the best available
expertise in project identification, development and assessment.
14.      A restructured IBAS should concentrate on pre- and post-finance
technical assistance/extension services to small-scale enterprises,
including assistance in the preparation of loan applications for financing
by the banks, and divest itself of any direct financing activity. Its
administration functions within the context of the present revolving loan
fund scheme for SSEs will therefore be transferred to GCDB in 1988.
15.      In order to enhance their efficiency and competitiveness,
enterprises will be encouraged to strengthen and improve their technical
and managerial capabilities through training of employees at all levels.



- 37 -                       ANNEX III
Page 5 of 7
Assistance to NI, IBAS, and MDI will enable them to cope vith increased
demand for their services. The services they offer will also be
rationalized to make then more effective. GTTI facilities will be upgraded
to facilitate technician level training in carpentry and joinery,
mechanical and electrical engineering, and construction management. The
Govrnrment intends to extend the management training programs at the MDI to
assist the development of relevant skills and the understanding and
acceptance of basic smnagement systes for private sector managers. In
addition, MDI will coordinate training in project development and appraisal
techniques for selected staff of the co-mercial banks, CBG, NIB, IhAS, IDU
and other ministries and agencies.
16.      Overseas investment promotion offers some potential in The Gambia,
particularly with respect to joint venture or technology transfers vith
local enterprises. NIB has already brought some private entrepreneurs in
contact vith foreign investors who are interested in investing in The
Gambia. As the development of an overseas investment attraction capability
is both skill and cost-intensive, the Government intends to explora the
prospects of collaboration with an investment promotion agency based in
Zurope or the USA to supplement the efforts of NIB. Such collaboration is
expected to involve the agency in arranging for exploratory visits by
potential investors.
Credit and Banking System
(i)   Credit Policy
17.      The availability of term credit in The Gambia is limited at
present. Hence, one of the major goals of the Government's credit policy
is to increase the flow of credit to the private sector. The crowding out
effect by the public sector enterprises is to be reduced significantly
through a reduction in the (a) stock of net credit from the banking system
to Government, and (b) banking system credit to the Gambia Produce
Marketing Board and to other public enterprises. The Government has also
put a moratorium on government domestic loan guarantees for public or
private borrowers, except as agreed with IDA, since January 1, 1986.
18.      In order to improve the flow of credit to the private sector to
finance rehabilitation and new development projects as well as working
capital requirements, and to encourage term lending by the commercial
banks, the Government will establish an apex financing facility to be
administered by the Central Bank under a line of credit to be made
available by IDAS.  The facility will be accessible to all three commercial
banks, in order to encourage them to undertake term lending and ensure
broad dispersal and timely use of the credit. The Central Bank will, after
consultation with IDA, issue a circular to the commercial banks detailing
the operations of the scheme (eligibility criteria, on-lending terms and
conditions, interest rate, etc.).
(ii)   Interest Rate Policy
19.      The Government has adopted a flexible interest rate policy in
order to increase the mobilization of financial resources vithin the
banking system, and to promote a more rational system of credit allocation.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 7
Interest rates on Central Bank advances were raised by an average of about
7 percentage points, and ceilings on co mmercial banks' deposit and lending
rates were abolished in September 1985.  In July 1986, the Central Bank
introduced a tender system for Treasury bills, with an initial offering of
D5 million, which realized a weighted average interest rate of 19.4*.
Following the tender, co mercial banks are free to set their lending rates.
Treasury bills are now issued by tender on a regular basis.
20.      The Central Bank sets only the deposit rate which is currently set
approximately equal to treasury bill rate. The lending rates are
determined by the banks themselves. These rates now average 252, and range
between 24-291 per annum. The rates are high in nominal and real terms as
domestic inflation for 1986187 is estimted at about 152 and could
therefore affect the success of investments, ezcept the most profitable
ones. However, the Government does not intend to follow a policy of
subsidized interest rates or dictating to the banks the rates at which they
should lend. Given the low inflation rate in recent months and the likely
continuation of that trend in the future, the currently high level of
interest rates are expected to abate and begin a gradual decline shortly.
21.      Credit to the small-scale enterprises, handled by IBAS, is
currently glven at an annual interest rate of 112 on the consideration that
the high lending rates (about 25Z) at present would discourage investment
by such enterprises. While the Government favors passing on credit to the
small-scale enterprises at special rates of interest, the policy is to keep
such rates at least positive in real terms. The aim is to gradually raise
the interest rate on such loans to market levels as the market determined
rates fall. The Government will consult with IDA annually on the level of
lending rates for SSEs.
(iii) Financial System
22.      The current condition of the financial system operates as a severe
constraint to effective intermediation--illiquidity of the Gambia
Commercial and Development Bank (GCDB), excess domestic liquidity of the
other two banks, absence of new term lending, and lack of loan repayment
discipline by borrowers. A number of measures have been taken to improve
the situation. First priority has been given to addressing the critical
financial position of GCDB. The importance of maintaining GCDB as a viable
financial institution lies not only in its relatively large size within the
local banking system (hence, its importance in improving financial
intermediation), but also because its collapse would hurt many small
depositors and undermine the existing (even if somewhat weak) confidence in
the already fragile banking system. The Government has implemented an
interim program of emergency measures, in consultation with IDA, aimed at
alleviating GCDB's financial problems. Negotiations with foreign banks are
underway for strengthening of GCDB's management through technical
assistance.
23.      The Government has launched a public campaign to restore credit
repayment discipline by borrowers and has established a special Ministry of
Justice Task Force to prosecute delinquent borrowers. The banks can now
quickly and freely exercise their legal recourse vith respect to delinquent
accounts.  Agreements have also been reached, in consultation with the IMP



39                      ANNEX III
Page 7 of 7
and IDA, for the rationalization of credit ceilings, The ceilings will.
however, be adjusted from tine to time, in consultation with DMF and IDA,
as conditions change.
ROLE OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
24.      The public sector is already overextended in relation to resource
and manpower availability. It also crowds out private investmnt by its
predominance in non-agricultural activities and by its large claimX on
credit. The Government has initiated measures to reduce considerably its
direct investments in productive activities in line with budgetary and
manpower constraints and as a policy of promoting private invests nt. Some
of the measures include rationalization of the public investment program,
public enterprise reform (including partial and total divestiture of some
public enterprises), and civil service retrenchment. With effect from
January 1, 1986, a moratorium has been placed on the creation of new public
enterprises, joint ventures where the Government's equity participation
involves cash infusions or joint ventures where Government equity in-kind
exceeds 1OZ, except as agreed with IDA. The size of the public sector is
expected to shrink and its future growth is to be limited. To replace the
public sector which has hitherto played a leading role in non-agricultural
productive investment, the private sector is expected to grow at a faster
rate and fill up the gap.
gamO23\annex3



- 40                                              A ';NNU   IV
Pase 1 of 3
THE GAMBIA - PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Characteristics of Public Enterprises
% Governsot
I.  Non-finncial FE#              Ownership                         Walor Activities
(a) wholtv-Ov d
1. Gambia Produce                     l00            monopoly for marketing/export of groundnut products;
Marketing Board (GPI).                         also iuports/diatrtbutes rice, forcilizer and farm
inputs; includes wholly-oined subsidiary (GRa) for
river transportation of farm inputs and groundnuts.
2. Gaebit Utilities                   100           utility for vater, electricity and severage.
Corporation (GUC)
3. Gaatel                             100           domestic and international celecomunicat:cns.
4. Gambia Port Authority (GPA)        100         - cargo handling, harbor operactions, dockyar:
ferry services.
S. Gambia Public                      100         -  public bus service;
Transport  Corp. (CGPTC)                       also includes tour operation subsidiary (GCatours).
6.  Livestock .Marketing              100         -  domestic and export marketing
Board (LMG)                                   of livestock products.
7.  National Trading                  100            wholesale and retail of selected
Corporation (RTC)                             comaodices in short supply (e.g. cement,
pharmaceuticals, building macertals)
S.  Atlantic Hotel                    lO0         * wholly-owned; managed under concrac: by
a subsidiary of British Caledontan ALrvays
9.  Cicroproducts                     100            owned by four PEs: GNIC, SSHFC, 0PMB, GC:B



_ 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
%Governaent
t.  NonufrLancial PR$             Ownership                   Malor Activities
(continued)
(b) Partly-Owed
10.  Seneg bia  Beach Hotel           60             jointly owned by the Government (60%),
and two Norwegian partners (20% each)
11. Gambia Aiays                      60          -  alrine ticketing, ground handling;
jointly ovned vith 3ritish Caledonia
AirWays (40%)
12.  Seagull Coldscores               49          * fish processing, freezinp and
storage; jointly owned by Nankoadze
Fisheries (Ghana)
13.  Gamtan                           40          -  processing of hides and sktns for
export; jointly owned by a PE
(Livestock Marketing Board: 40 %) and a
Belgian firm, (TCV 60%).
14. African Hotels (Gambia)           33          -  jointly owned by the Government (33%),
Coionvealth Developmenc Corp. (25%)
and Vtngresor (42%);
15. Koobo Beach Hotel                 20          -  jointly owned by the Governmenc (20%),
Gambian investors (30%), Swedish
investors (33%), and Novocel (17%);
16.  Banjul breweries                 9              production of beer and soft drtnks
for domestic/export sales; jointly
owned by two German firms (69%),
the Comonwealth Development Corporation (10%),
the German Develpment Company (12%) and the
the Gambia GovernAenc (9%).



- 42 -                                         ANNEX IV
Pop 3 of 3
CGovetr   t
0mershtS                       Kalor Activittes
2. VimactaL Pt$
17.  Carttal Seek of                   O0o
MO Gami
I8.  Cabia Cinerv e5l                 100         -  fluaetaig of  ejo: economic development
mi DOev.lsetnt                               accttvitt, includiag trede, Industry,
*eak (CMM)                                   ftshertes, mining, public works,
comunlcations, etc.; GCDI shares are
held by the Covern met (50%),
GPVZ (26%)  nd CC=  (22%).
19. Cambia Netional                   tO0         -  provides life, motor, fire, and
Insurance Corp. (CNMC)                       general Insuranee;
20. GCnbta Cooperacive                100         -  provides subsistence creOLt to famers
Union (CCG)                                  during winter season;
21.  Social Seeurity HoMwing          100         -  administers the pension fund for PE3 and
%nd finance Corp. (SSHFC)                     a penston fund for privace companies; aLso
finanes and administers low-income houstng.



ANNEX V
1W WIU Aa  OMWRIII OVELOPMT PRJCT
Structure o  Interct Rttes. Ooe.ber 1984-Juno lU9
(In per"o"t per anhuw, at  Wd of perioid)
Commercial Banks                    19S4          1966        1966         1967          19   (Juno)
Lending Rates
Agriculture                        9-10         10-27       10-24        10-21          9-80
Manufacturing                     11-16         1C-27       11-S0        11-27         11-S0
Building                           9-18          9-27        9-27        11-27         11-S0
Training                          is-18         16-27       18-30         9-29          9-30
Tourism                           11-19         15-27       25-27         9-29         9-30
Other                             11-19         15-27           9         9-29          9-30
D-posit Rates
Short-Tern Deposit Account         6-12.0        6-12       12-15        12-13         12-13
Savings Bank Account               7-10-5          15           18          15            15
Time Deposits
Three Months                       7.5-10.5    15-15.5                16    15    1s
Six Months                         9-12.5       15-16       18-19        16-15.5       15-16. 6
Nine Months                       10-1         15-16.5 1U8-19.5            16            1
Twelve Months                    1.5-14.5         17          19        16-17        t6-17
Post Office Savin_s Bank
Savings D-pos7ts                      8             8          15           15            15
Governmnt
Treasury Bills                        8            15          19           20            17
Government Developent Loans
1984-87                              15            15          15           16            15
1984-89                              15            15          15           15           is
1979-89                               8.5           3.5         8.5          8.5          8.5
1986-91                                                        19           19            19
Discount Note Serios
(12-month meturity)                                                                       19
Central Bank
Discount Rate on
Co me rcll Paper                      9.5          16          20            21           16
Crop Advances                         8            1S          17            16          15
Non-Seasonal Advances                10            1S          17            16           15
Discount Rate on Treasury Bill*       8.5          16          20            21           13
OP&                                   6            18          17            18           15
Source: CBU, IMF
November 21, 1988



THE GAMBIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sectoral Distribution of Commercial Bank Credit
(End of Period)
1984              1986               196             1967             196
June     Dec.      June  ODc.        June    Doc.      June    D c.        J"n
Agriculture                                28.7   56.4        48.5    99.0      48.3    79.1       U4.0   44.2        37.9
Fishing                                    11.5     6.0       12.6   17.6       28.6   19.3        12.9    18.1       20.S
Mining and Quarrying                        0.6     0.5        0.5     0.6       0.6      0.7       0.7     0.8        0.8
Building and Construction                  13.6    14.4       19.5    21.2      80.1    81.8       28.6   22.1        22.8
Transportation                              7.4    6.1         8.7     9.2        5.4    10.0      12.3    12.2       14.4
Distributive Trade                         58.3   58.8        46.7    48.9      61.9    65.9       54.9  U5.2         48.6
Tourism                                    16.9   20.6        16.3   12.6        18.4   22.3       18.1   19.8        22.2
Personal Loans                             22.2   28.1        26.7    26.1       24.3   27.7       29.2   80.0        81.1
Other                                      11.4     8.0       17.1   17.1       36.5    26.6       26.4    26.4       40.0
Total                                  165.5  200.9       198.0  260.1    246.1  286.4   207.9    230.3           238.4
_=                   =    =    am.  ma.   m.  - =
Agriculture                                17.3   28.0        24.5   39.6        19.6   27.7      10.7    19.2        16.7
Fishing                                     6.9    4.0         6.3     7.0       9.6      6.6      6.2      7.8        8.9
Mining and quarrying                        0.4     0.4        0.3     0.2       0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3        0.3
Building and Construction                   8.2     7.1        9.6     8.5       12.2   11.2    11.4        9.6        9.3
Transportation                              4.6     3.0        4.4     8.7       2.2      3.6      5.9      5.8        0.2
Distributive Trades                        32.2   29.3        24.6   18.8       26.2   23.1    26.4        23.9       18.6
Tourism                                    10.2    10.3        8.S     5.0       0.7      7.8      6.3      3.6        9.6
Personal Loans                             18.4    14.0       13.0    10.4        9.9     9.7     14.1     13.0       1J.3
Other                                       6.9     4.0        8.6     6.8      14.4    10.0      12.7     12.3       17.0
Total                                 100.0   100.0      100.0   100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0
==   3=              = =               =            ==  e                   -=
Source: CSC, IMf
November 21, 1968



THE GAMBIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Domestic Credit. 1960-88
(Millons of DelaIla, end of Period)
June       June       June       June        June        Juno        June        June        Jum
1980       1961       1962       1988       1984        ls6         1906        1967        1966
Governmnt (net)                      28.6       64.7       87.2       76.1        60.5        66.8       100.3      -04.7 /    -37.3 '/
Public Entities                      56.7       69.1       97.9      141.8       100.5       106.6       217.4       216.7 /    101.4 /
Of Which:   PMB                      -          -        (36.7)    (103.4)    (111.3)       (96.4)     (132.6)    (166.0)       (66.0)
Private Sector                       91.0       97.6      105.1      1 1.1      148.0       159.0       165.6       174.2  /    l92 a/
Total Domestic Credit             176.3      221.4      240.2      346.0       384.0       412.4       501.3      826.2        256.4
8-s==                ===                                -S3                                    - . _
Source: CBG, IMF
/ Includes n 72.8 million In net bank credit to the Government
In respect of the Managed Fund.
kJ Reflects assumption by the Government of 0 38.9 million in bank
credit to the public sector in connection with the Managed Fund.
g/ Reflecta assumption by tho Govornment of D 88.9 in bank credit
to the private sector In connection with the Managed Fund.
Noveber 21, 1968
AFSIE



- 46 -
ANNEX VIII
tHE "MIA - ENTEIPSSE DEVELOPMET POJECT
onterel Distributlor of Outetaldng Credit by Cmercll Beaks
(Setebr 1667, In X)
acm         SC           SCS         Total
Ai'kIeulaure                           16.5         12.6           -         14.4
fid,lw I r's                             .6         5.1          7.3          7.7
dimin e  Quarrying                      0.4           -            -          9.3
Buildi of se  Construction              0.9         13.9        2S.5         12.0
Trensperftti.e                          7.2         2.2          1.4          6.6
Distributive Trades                    21.6         34.9        48.5         26.7
Tourim                                  7.9         17.C         1.7          8.6
Persoul Loans                          14.2          5.2        14.6         13.0
Other                                  14.8         5.6          6.1         12.3
Tote l                              16.          160.0       166.9        166.6
Source: CBd



THE GAMBIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Accounts of the Commercial Banks
(million dalasis, end of period)
1964                    19B6                    1986                1967
June       Dec.         June       Dec.         June       Dec.          June
Net Foreign Assets                    2.1         16.8         18.3      6.1.          11.8        *.9         20.2
Foreign Assets                      9.         22.4          33.7     18.8           31.6       27.2        40.2
Foroign Liabilities                 5.9         5.6          15.4     12.6           19.8       18.3        29.9
Reserves                             -1.a         -1.8          8.9     14.7            C.7       19.4         29.8
Currency                            2.9         3.0           3.6      7.1            4.2        5.6         4.6
Deposits at Central Bank */        -4.2        -6.4           6.3      7.6            1.5       13.0        26.2
Claim  on Governmnt (net)            27.2        32.6          32.8     33.3           43.4       53.3         64.3
Gross Clal                        80.2        35.6          36.3    37.3            39.3       57.4         68.4
Govornment Deposits                 3.9         3.S           3.       4.8            4.1        4.1         4.1
Claims on Public Enterprises         32.8        6.1          53.7       89.7          64.6       96.6        37.9
Claims on Private Sector            157.9       168.2         157.5    174.4          166.4      192.3       179.5
Domand Deposits                      38.4        43.1          56.7      77.0          72.4       73.1         96.4
Til  and Savings Deposits            59.9        79.2          66.1      94.9          97.9      1992        131.9
Credit from Contral Bank             99.4       128.8         111.1    149.7          126.5      161.7        68.1
Capital Account                      22.2        20.2          24.2      15.1          86.2       33.7        41.5
Other Items, Net                     -2.1         3.6         -0.9    -186.           -14.9        2.9       -23.3
*/ Excludes special dep)sits, as reported In the CBQ books; the small
negative figures for some periods reflect timing and coverage
discrepanclo In the reporting of total deposits by commercial banks.
Source: CB3, IMF



THE GAMBIA: ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ianqu'Itegrnotatonalo pour is Commerce et i'Industri
Balance Sheets, 1979 - so
(Fiscal yM  ending September U, thousand dalasis)
1979       1980         1961       1982       1968        1964       s9o        1o
Assets
Gambia Notes and Coins                   28J         302        836        478        $76                    470        0
Foreign Currency                       1,101   3      31        16C        941         "           1          82       ,138
Deposits with Central Bank               248       2,022      41609    90,70       12,638      15,869     22,177     10,244
Deposits with Other Banks                 I"          88         17      1,696      1,311      8,162       8,469      2,818
Cambia Covornment SecuritIes             600       2,5we       ,000      2,560      7,009       6,731       ,731     19,36
Loans and Advances                    10,369       6,605     11,770     19,479      8,816      7,?71       0,922     14,86
FixO d Assets                            313         293        292        284      1,863      2 774       3,027      6,261
Other Asset d                             41         105         07         84         20        29J         139        210
Aaccptances. Endor"_nto
and Other Obligot.lons               7,954      9,927       9,602      3,382      1,9090     0,6        1,s9        t,922
nn a n.n          nn       nnn         --~~~~~~~~----        ----
Total Asets                      20,91      23,338     39,768      26,948     32,408     45,991     40,49#     66,138
Liabilities and Equity
____.____________
02
Assigned Capital                         36u        as9        566         5OO        6"          66         s6e      4,559                  1
Head Office Support                    1,606       1,660      1,350      1,360      1,359      I,m         1,J6         -
Statutory Reserve                        349        413         470        5o6       6M7         615        614       1,642
Profit and Lovs Account                  293         226        363        516        696        04          l9o        084
Rosorve for Losses                        22          U           o         60         69         so          U     
Deposits                               7,819       9,667     16,027     11,709     13,020     12,487     22,084      $3,822
Bank Borrowings                        1,966       1,198      1,406        -           e1         17          11        -
Due to Group                             666         981      1,206      1,669      2,075      2,871       3,335      2,667
Other Liabilities                        638         624      6,894      9,391     13,034     2661        10,268     18,172
Acceptancos., Endorsoemnts and
Other Obligatlons                    7,964       9,027      9,002      8,302      1,909      0,6O6       1,596      3,922
;7-                 - -- - --  - -- - --  - - - -*--             - -- - --  - - - - - -   
Total Liabilities and Equity     29,917     23,333      30,7568    28,943     32,408     45,991     40,490    66,1J6
Source: BICI
October 30, 1987
lN/bi 'a
Cambia2



- 49 -
ANNEX XI
THE  IA      -  PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banque International, pour Is Comerce et l'Industrie
Profit and Lo" Accounts, 1979 - IS
(Fiscal yoers ending September U , thousand dalisol)
1979       1009       1001        1982       1903        190 340                10"0
Profit before Tax                673        686         *77      1,170       1,419      1,5605      1,689      1,9C6
Profit after Tax                 424         269        409        553        6096        673         794        912
Profit Transferred or
Available, for Transfer
to Head Office                 298        225         35U        516         596        664         596        634
October 36, 1987
=-1/blI
gambile



INE  AUIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT MROJECT
Standard Chartered Bank Gambiu Ltd. - Balance Shet
1978 - e6
(Fiscal yrea ending December 81, thousand daloals)
1971       1979       19W        1981       1962       196t        1964       1965       1996
Asets
Cosh and Short-tern Funds            16,246       2,811     16,713     26,536     8,890      52,65    5C2,S165      5,882      49,476
Invost_snts                           2,605       8,666      8,6o6     38,9o       8,o6       1,669      9,400       9,400     12,489
Advances                              14,901     28,248     21,639     24,642     24,640     22,989     22,724      22,158     28,661
Amounts due tre Group                    -          -          644      1,731      2,709      2,496      5,141       7,512      9,966
Prsmss-  *nd Equipent                 5,278       5,235      6,259      6,416      6,896      6,S02      6,896       7,215      6,614
Liabilities of Customers on
ConfIroed and Other Credito         4,691      6,613       3,461      5,473     11,264      7,755     19,993       4,486      0,U42
Total Asset.                    87,661     40,307      52,666     61,276     83,838     98,277    167,221    166,597    114,779
Liabilities and Equity
Share Capital                         1,'M       1,66      1,260      1,250      1,S66      1,56O       2,2C0      2,600      3,600
Reserves                              4,440      4,448       4,198      5,409      5,159      5,159      4,409       5,128      6,364            1
Profit and Lose Account                  96         113        326        343        228        265         240         18          9 
Amounts due Group                       389         738        -           38        469        -           -          -          _
Customr Deposits                     23,60       21,664     23,590     27,997     33,293     43,438     49,863      59,298     68,062
Taxation                               3J7          786        564        696        639        982       1,326      1,661      6,317
Other liabilities                     3,666       6,166     19,002     19,443     30,921     33,473      37,021     81,917     22,906
Proposed Dividends                      266         400        231        626        626        76        1,125      1,625      3,600
Confirmed Credits and Other
Customr Related Liabilities         4,691      6,013       3,461      6,473     11,204      7,756     16,993       4,435      8,042
------  ------                                  ------     ------
Total Liabilities and Equity    37,661     40,307      62,606     81,270     83,638     93,277    167,221    106,697    114,779
Source: SCBG



- 51 -
ANNEX XIII
THE "AMIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard Chartered Bank Cambia Ltd. - ProfIt and Lose Accounts
1973 - U
(Fiscal yeas ending December 31, thousand dalasle)
1378      1979      196       1961       1962      1963      1964       1965      1966
Profits and Dividends
Profit before Tax         e3       1,127       499     1,264        929     1,712     2,374     3,0U3   10,299
Profit after Tax          296        417        99       594        409       786     1,100     1,408      5,051
Dividends                 299        490       281       626        125       769     1,125     1,625      3,909
October U, 1987
HI/bl-
Gambia4



THE OAIA - EMILHVRIS11 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Gamble Commercial and D.v-leape n8 ank - Salemo Sheeto, 1973 - 13_
(Fiscal yers ending Junii U, In thousand daloola)
1973     1979     196      113      13       196      1964     19iC     1936
Assets
Not Current Assets
Coah and Deposits                             3,996    7,811    8,359    *,423   29,110  19,114   29,321   19,792   17,916
Othor                                         1,166    2,142    2,C95      9mg    6,557   12,28   18,99      7592    4,645
Sub-Total                                    5,161    9,473   11,454   1t,522   26,657   31,337      41,333   1  ,294  -21,49
Net Portfolio
Commercial Loans and Advances                31,9    49,351   75,589   97,122  111,464  164,466   90,726  104,322  129,313
Development Loans                             9,619   14,692   19,958   22,192   23,657   26,133 U9  1,78   2,946   86,968
Equity Investmnts                               6o8      63        23U     19       196      269      267      297        -
Sub-Total                                   42,182  64,612 95,322  119,454  134,671  132,36S  121,666  136,558 1U6611
Net Fixed Assets                                  523      629       S8S      647      796      UC5   9.865   9,454   19,355
Construction In Progress                            -        -         -      577    2,S60    6,396        -        -        -
Miscellaneous Assets                              966      323    2,596    5,661    4,993    6,432    3,245    3,79    1,621
Total Assets                                   43,831   7S,906  116,457  139,861  169,726  179,669  175,949  131,162  216,942
= = ,= _= _m - _- _
Liabilitios and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand, Savings and Time Deposits            26,771   19.676   19,116   22,047   32,0S1   42,294   46,662   59,176   77,173
Other Current Libilitieu                     6,976   14,197   14,402   21,169   27,769   32,159   39,294   25,399   31,041
Sub-Tot l                                  32,741   83,667   33,626   44,e   659,77n6   74,453   79,296   35,716  166,214
Central Bank of The Gambia                      4,977   26,600  56,077   76,926   92,996  J5,49#   93,462   70,561   74,463
edium and Long-term Borrowings
Development Bonds                             6,833   12,610   12,616   12,610   12,619   12,516   12,516   12,916   10,219
Quasi Equity                                      -        -        -         -        -        -        -    C,OO    35,6006
Othor Borrowod Funds                            496      646    1,6S2    2,290    2,737    3,953    5,991    7,579    5,669
Sub-Total                                    7,329   13,156   14,072   14,800   16,297   16,468   16,411   54,659   60,276
Equity
Share Capital                                 1,666    1,666    1,66    1          1,66610,   2,660   2,0001   5,6     11,670
Reserves, CGoneri Provisions, 
and Retained Earnings                        2,784    2,886   2,968    3,129        662    1,133  (17,161) (34,064) (36,016)
Total Equity                                  3,764    3,386   3,988    4,129    1,662    8,138  (15,166) (29,064) (23,946)
Total Liabilities and Equity                 48,331   76,968  110,467  139,661  169,725  179,56W  175,949  131,162  263,942
m    mm            m=m           su       m=        sn*===  &=m
Source: GCOB
11



THE GMIA - ENTERPRISE AND DEVELOPMENT FIlOJECT
The Caeia Cmmercial and Dvelopment lbnk
Profit and Lose Account, 1178 - 1980
(Fiscal years ending Juno, in thousands d41lasis)
1971     1979      l9O      1981      11102     196      1964      195      1906
Income
Financial Income                         2,942    4,267    6,724   11,881   10,1012   16,565   13,960   15,90    22,361
Foroign Exchaings Cain (Lose)             1,860      638       629   (1,866)  (2,114)  (1,817)     713   (8,769)    (610)
Commissions aind others                   1,123    1,067    1,866    2,216    4,1166    2,906      1,566    3,464    1,239
Total Incouae                          6,426    5,902    9,209   11,681   12,l131   11,786   16,239   15,615   23,09
Expenses
Financial Cha,rges                        1,669    2,56      4,626    7,436   10,1B9    6,616   14,738   14,866   16,311
Administrativm Expenses                     982    1,109    1,164    1,317    1,411    2,668    2,6S    2,43           2,262
Provisions                                1,190      617       an6    1,065       181       314   15,732   12,961    5,527
Depreciation and Othor Expenses             463      386    2,522    1,736    1,141    1,82    1,687    2,155    6,349
Total Expesnes                         4,494    5,121    6,903   11,541   13,362   11,715   84,212   31,919   54,469
Not Profit (Loss) Bofore Tax             931       761       se6      140      (071)       21  (17,973) (10,394) (11,379)
Taxes                                    416       391       153         -        -       169      325       029       38#
Not Profit After Tax                      715      390       153       140     (671)    (146) (18,296) (16,924) (11,775)
Source: CODB



- 54 -
ANNEX XVI
Page  of 4
THE GAMBIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4           Circular from the Central Bank of The Gambia
on the Agex Line of Credit
Introduction
1.       The Government of The Gambia has set up an apex facility at the
Central lank of The Gambia (CBG) with financial assistance from the
International Developmnt Association (IDA). A line of credit of US$5
aillion has been established to finance fixed and working capital of
existing and new enterprises in the private sector except trade, real
estate and subsistence agriculture, but including horticulture and poultry.
The line of credit will be available to all three commercial banks in The
Gambia in order to provide competition among the banks, and extend the
outreach of the line of credit to client entrepreneurs of all three banks.
The line of credit is to be administered by CBG through its banking
department on behalf of the Government. Of the linn of credit, up to
US$0.5 million would be available for financing free standing working
capital.
Eligibility Criteria for Participatiig Banks
2.       All the three commercial banks are eligible for access to the line
of credit subject to their compliance with CBG's financial regulations and
guidelines. The criteria the participating banks (PBs) are required to
met are:
(a) maintain the minimum deposit with CBG, as required by the
Central Bank of The Gambia Act, 1971;
(b) maintain the minimum liquid assets as required by Section 15
of the Financial Institutions Act, 1974;
(c) observe the prohibition from granting advances where the
total value of such advinces exceeds 25Z of the unimpaired
capital and the unimpaired balance of the bank's Reserve
Account as required by Section 17(i)(a) of the Financial
Institutions Act, 1974;
(d) maintain the reserve ratio on time and savings deposits as
determined by CBG from time to time; and
(e) abide by any other regulations and guidelines issued from
time to time by CBG.
Procedures for Subloan Processing and Administration
3.       Appraisal of subloan requests and credit risks will be the
responsibility of the PB which would make the final decision on whether to
approve a subloan request. The CBG would only review whether the proposed



-5 -ANNEX XVI
Page 2 of 4
subproject qualifies for refinancing using IDA funds. PBs are responsible
for collecting all required documents from loan applicants. The first
three subloan requests from each PB would be submitted to IDA through CBG
for review prior to refinancing by CBG. Following a review of the first
three appraisal reports, and assusing satisfactory standards, IDA will
establish suitable free limits for each of the PBs not exceeding US$50,000
per subloan, if deemed appropriate.
4.       Maximum subloan size (both fixed and working capital) would be
US$300,000. Project promoters would normally be required to provide at
least 25Z of total subproject cost in equity, and PBs could finance up to
15 of the subproject cost in loans from their own resources.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiarv Enterprises
5.       In determining eligibility for refinancing using IDA funds, the
PBs would be guided by the following criteria:
(a) the enterprise must be in the private sector (at least 512
ownership), and engaged in productive activities outside
trade, real estate and subsistence agriculture, but including
horticulture and poultry;
(b) the purpose of the loan request in the case of workina
capital must not be for the finance of recurrent
expenditures; and
5c) the subproject must be financially and economically viable.
(i)      Financial evaluation criteria
6.       All loan requests must be evaluated in terms of their ability to
generate sufficient cash flow to meet loan repayment and other debt
obligations. For all subloans, financial viability shall be taken to
require a debt to equity ratio of no more than 3:1, a debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.5, and a current ratio of at least 1.2. For subloan
requests of more than US$50,000 for fixed investments, financial rate of
return should exceed the cost of borrowing at the time of appraisal.
(ii)     Economic evaluation criteria
7.       For investment requests, up to US$100,000, PBs would be required
to assess whether a subproject would improve quality, price competitiveness
or production of goods and services for which demand has been established.
Simple economic indicators, such as expected impact on employment and fixed
cost per job created, foreign exchange earnings or savings, and use of raw
materials of local origin, will be calculated.
  11.A subloa  re-es &s for maJor iseu investment (more tnan
US$100,000) would be subject to a detailed economic evaluation, including
calculation of economic rate of return. The ERR should exceed 102.
I



- 56                   ANNEX XVI
Page 3 of 4
Onlendina Terms and Conditions
9.       Loans to enterprises would be based on projected cash flows and
debt servicing capacity of the beneficiary enterprises, with maturities
ranging from 3 to 12 years (inclusive of appropriate grade periods) for
subloans involving fixed investment and permanent working capital; and
between one and three years (inclusive of a grace period of less than one
year) for subloans for free standing working capital.
10.      The interest rates on subloans by the PBs to beneficiary
enterprises will ba market based.
11.      The CBG would make the funds available out of the IDA line of
credit to the P'os at a rate of interest equal to three percentage points
below the rate, on treasury bills, to be adjusted semi-annually. CBG would
retain an administrative fee equivalent to 2Z of loan amounts outstanding,
and would pay to the Gover8ment the remaining spread on IDA funds.
12.      Repayment schedules from PBs to CBG would be on composite
amortization schedule basis reflecting the aggregate repayment schedule of
the loans to enterprises. Reschedulings would- be allowed only with prior
approval of CBG.
13.      The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement. Disbursement and Reporting
14.      Procurement and disbursement procedures will be in accordance with
IDA requirements. Procurement of equipment and material financed under the
line of credit will be in accordance with commercial practices. PBs would
be tesponsible for ensuring that goods procured for SME subprojects are
purchased at competitive prices, due account being taken of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery, quality and reliability of the goods and
availability of spare parts. Orders for items under contracts with an
estimated value of over US$20,000 each would be procured through shopping
with price quotations from at least three qualified and eligible suppliers.
Small and miscellaneous items with an estimated value of less than
US$20,000 for each package, and proprietary items may be procured through
direct contracting. Procedures for procurement of goods and services under
each subproject would be specified by PBs in proposals for each subloan
appraised by them. PBs would maintain records of the procurement methods
and documents, and monitor the utilization of subloan funds through regular
supervision visits. CBG will monitor compliance with this requirement and
IDA will also selectively review it during its supervision missions.
15.      Subloans by PBs to beneficiary enterprises will not be used'to
cover expenditures incurred more than 90 days (a) before receipt by IDA of
information relating to a free limit subloan following its approval by a
PB. and (b) in the case of subloans above the free limit before receipt of
the request to IDA for subproject approval.
16.      CBG would refinance 1002 of the amount of PBs' subloans up to 75Z
of the cost of a subproject under the apex line of credit. To facilitate
disbursements, a special account (revolving fund) will be established in



- 57 -                   ANNEX XVI
Page 4 of 4
the name of the borrower (i.e., the Government) in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to IDA. CBG will disburse funds from the apex facility against
full documentation except for contracts valued less than US$15,000
equivalent each, which would be against statements of expenditures. PBs
will submit to CBG all documents in support of statements of expenditures.
17.      Pbs vill keep separate project accounts.  PBs will provide to TDA,
through CBG, within four months after the end of each fiscal year, the
project accounts including withdrawals from the special account and
withdrawals made on the basis of statements of expenditure, audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA in accordance with appropriate
accounting principles consistently applied. The audited accounts of PBs
will also include their annual financial statements. PBs will require the
enterprises receiving subloans in amounts over US$100,000 each under the
IDA line of credit to submit, within four months after the end of each
fiscal year, the audit reports on their overall annual financial results
and positions in a form acceptable to IDA. For enterprises receiving
subloans below US$100,000 each, PBs will inspect their annual financial
results and position in a manner satisfactory to IDA. PBs will retain the
enterprises' annual financial results (both audited and otherwise, as
appropriate), and will make available to IDA for review during IDA's
supervision missions.
18.      PBs will submit to CBG semi-annual progress reports on their
subprojects. Following a review of these reports, CBG will make available
a summar rePort to the Prni.ert rnniminati - Cofnsn4ttee (pCc) in the
Ministry of Finance and Trade (MFT) and IDA within one month of submission
by PBs.
Central Bank of the Gambia
Banjul, May 1988



- 5A -
ANNEX SVII
Page 1 of 3
THE GAMBIA - PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tertms of Reference--Technical Asssistance for
the Liquidation of the Agricultural Development Bank
1.        The Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) commenced operations in
March 1982 and in January 1983, the Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG) gave
it a directive to close down all but its deposit business and to
discontinue making new loans. By that time, ADB's total assets were
estimated at D1.963 million (US$0.28 million equivalent). The Government,
as the principal shareholder (other shareholders are the CBG 20%, Gambia
Produce Marketing Board 10%, Gambia Cooperative Union 10%, and Gambia
National Insurance Corporation 9%), has subsequently closed down the
operations of ADB and taken a decision to liquidate it. The liquidation
process should be carried out in accordance with the banking and/or
corporate laws of The Gambia. Steps to be followed in the process are
outlined below.
2.        The Government should:
(i) appoint a liquidator; and
(ii) assign a small team or a consulting firm to assist the
liquidator.
GAMBI2/LADB



- 59 -
ANNEX XVII
Page 2 of 3
The liquidator should preferably be a local banker or a civil servant with
banking and accounting background. It would not be cost effective to
engage a foreign liquidator given the very small size of ADB's assets. If
a non-banker is appointed liquidator, he would need to be assisted by an
outsidd auditor.
3.        Once appointed, the liquidator should undertake immediate
safeguard measures, including:
(i)  terminating some of the retained staff no longer required and
releasing all unneeded office space in order to reduce overhead
costs;
(ii)  reconciling accounts;
(iii)  initiating audit of ADB's portfolio and its assets and
liabilities to determine those loans that are recoverable and
should be pursued (thereby minimizing wasted efforts), those to
be put into receivership/liquidation immediately and finally, the
nature and extent (amount) of ADB's indebtedness; and
(iv) pursuing loan collection.
4.        The liquidator should then prepare and submit to the Gcovernment a
Ilouidation plan. The plan shotzld clearly spell out the recommendations
for handling issues such as:
GAMBI2/LADB



- 60 -
ANNEX XVII
Page 3 of 3
ti) disposal of ADB's liabilities--for example, in case the assets
cannot cover the liabilities, which liabilities would be
transferred to the Government, etc.;
(ii) disposal of residual assets, if any, after all obligations are
settled; and
(iii) treatment of performing and complying loans, e.g., transfer them
to the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank to administer.
5.        The implementation of safeguard measures and preparation of the
liquidation plan should be completed within three months of the appointment
of the liquidator. The liquidator's report should then be reviewed by the
Government and IDA. In case there is no disagreement with the
recommendations, implementation of the recommendations would begin
immediately after the review and be completed within six months.
WAPID
April 1987
GAMBI2/LADB



- 61 --                    ANNEX X-VII
THE GAsMW
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPM9NT PROJECT
DETAILtE PROJECT COSTS SCHEDULS
(In US$ thousands equivalent)
Local    Forei a    Total
Human Resource Develooment Component
GCDB Reform:
Logistics                            10        100       110
Staff Training                       10         70        80
Resident Experts                      -        750       750
Logistical Support for Apex Unit                -        50        50
NIB:
Project Preparation Study             -         60        60
Advisory Services                    60         90       150
Promotional Budget                    -         70        70
GWFC:
Consultancy                           -        175       175
Logistics                            50         50       100
IDU:     Consultancy and Training               -       250       250
Training Facilities at MDI                   150        555       705
Refund of PPF Advance (Studies,
Training, ADB Liquidation &
GCDB Diagnosis)                       -        450       450
Component Total                         280       2670      2950
Line of Credit Component                          3320      5000       8320
Public Enterprise Comoonent
A. Assistance to NIB -- Consultancy Services
for Divestiture, Training, Corporate
Planning and Logistical Support.            150        550       700
B. Assistance to PEs -- Consultancy Services
for Improvements in Management and
Operations, and Computer Systems.            50        430       480
C.  Refund of SPPF Advance                           -       200        200
Component Total                         200       1180      1380
Total Baseline Cost                           3800      8850     12650
Price & Physical Contingencies                 200       750       950
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           4000      9600     13600



- 62 -                       ANNEX XIX
THE GAMBIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF
THE PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE
1.       The role of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) is generally
to ensure that the various components of the Project (other than the PE
component) are implemented in a timely and coherent manner with the
objective of translating the promotional and training efforts into viable
investment projects financed under the line of credit component.
2.       To enable it to fulfill this objective, the PCC will specifically
undertake the following actions:
(i; define, on an annual basis, a program and a schedule for
implementation of the various components of the Project,
including the targets and the ways of implementation
monitoring;
(ii) review, on a quarterly basis, the status of implementation of
the Project with a view to adopting corrective measures if
necessary, and bringing to the attention of IDA any
problem/issues arising therefrom which may impede, in a
substantial manner, the implementation of the Project;
(iii) ensure that the human resources development component is
carried out in a action-oriented manner with a view to
generating a steady flow of viable investment projects
eligible for financing under the line of credit, and
expediting its utilization;
(iv) assist the participating bdnks in defining a strategy for
publicizing and marketing the line of credit;
(v) ensure that the participating banks work closely with the SHE
support institutions in general, and with those supported
under the Project in particular, while identifying, promoting
and financing investment projects under the line of credit;
(vi) maintain up-to-date records regarding the status of
implementation of the Project with a view to facilitating
problem-solving, and preparing quarterly progress reports and
making them available on a timely manner to the institutions
involved in the Project as well as to IDA.



- 63 -                          ANNEX XX
THE GAMBIA - ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-------------------------------------------
Schedule ot Diebursemente
(SOR millon)
IDA Fiscal Year           Quartorly                     Cumulative
and Quarter Ending       Diubursement    Cumulative           X
FY69     Septmber 1908 m.32                    9.32              4
December 1988          S.08           0.40              5
March 1909             9.19           9.56              7
Juno 1969              9.11           9.61              8
FY90     September 1989         0.16           0.76             19
December 1909          0.17           9.98             18
March 1999             6.29           1.18             15
June 1999              6.26           1.88             16
FY91     September 1990         0.24            1.57            21
Deceber 1990           0.24           1.81             26
March 1991             0.27           2.09             29
June 1961              0.27           2.85             82
FY92     September 1991         0.27           2.62             86
December 1991          0.27           2.89             40
March 1992             0.28           8.17            48
June 1992              8.27           8.44             47
FY93     September 1992         0.29           8.78             61
December 1992          0.80           4.03            65
March 1993             0.26           4.28             69
June 1993              0.26           4.65             62
FY94     September 1998         0.28           4.79             68
December 1908          0.25           6.64             69
March 1994             0.26           6.29             78
June 1994              9.25           6.64             78
FY9s     September 1994         9.16            6.72            76
December 1994          0.18           6.90             61
March 1995             0.19           6.09            68
June 199m              0.17           6.26             so
FY96     September 1996         0.15           6.41             s6
December 1995          0.14           0.66             90
March 1996             9.11           6.66             91
June 1996              0.12           6.78             98
FY97     September 1996         9.11           6.89             96
December 1996          0.10           6.99             96
March 1997             6.66           7.67             97
June 1997              0.08           7.15             98
FY98     September 1997         0.07            7.22            99
December 1997          0.06           7.86            166



IBRD 210
j  A,7>   , /S Drso o le- r6*                                                                                              i                                                    meP has boeoeroed by    1                   *            MAURITANIA
The ftd SaniBs staf exrc vely
f1   thV coc,w.  te                                          r of the
, X \ 21 / \ r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tI war t8*tE  < SE NE GA    Y' 
I',-        -              /)                    / r                                                                 S          E         N          E         G          A          L                                                       reaers and.h     aJF MuIw for                                      MALtE
used and the bou,dans shot,
on ha map do not wrro4 on the 
t,, of The 5icr*i Bank and the 
h enat .nalv Financ Corporahn         GIE~
aNV judgnev- on fth lega status11                      GU          
of any J  o or a n
endorsement or accecitanae of                       N
N                                                                                     .-*---.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ brsaidanes ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YSIE~~~schbunae
Nioro du Rip                                           N.                                                                                                                                    LEONE
m  ,  rs \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                  _      dt Ino ur>exr
\'  Cainm                                                                                               Atlan tic             bo TE
"o w                                              ,IBERIA *)TDsiV\
;/ .  ,9   _,__._   _._,_._,_._._   ._._,_,_,_.J                                                 /                                                                                                                                                             \J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wngh, e,'der  xan
-.                                                                                                            So~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itokol    ..i  oO                                                      2ea
F.om  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medino                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N~~~~~~~~~~~Md
Jeswang          Seriiige MOSS               Kerewa       Sohkene                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sutukoba         0kifu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sba 
(Serekun  aS            \                                                                                                        /                                           69     Na      l      Dl                                                                                           wY S nial  kunk)
>~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Gne                                                                         Soa'   /                                     TH  GAMBIAc heduotr                                   -,         ~        ~U PP      R/Kr
~t-  Jappni                                                                                                                        YSS4"O        I        GorooIC
Sam                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ townt
artund v Y                                                   /                                              @     Division headquarters~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~osion,                                                                            .
-u-                         N |   lliot^ErEQs O   10  20   30   *0   50u                                                                                                                             -
ur   YtDui.l(                .omlou                       ;                                        - ,','*-*                                                                                                                                                                     R-                                 Kiiinbundares
Tu/edng~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it                                                          hangrri Bo.nkSoreKu
ko    i u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -0
lesZ                             I   MbdinaSeringeross                                                                        tLE                             0                                                                                      10             Al boundari   -
n kun            IriGn'n oroPrimryorads(pavd) 
Forum    Santo                                                                                             _________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EN E P IS              os oi0as                                                             0tt
u t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kund~~~RSbaa  ada,JbSiit-~Scnar  od
|n                         4      O Zie hrt                                    vInbhr                                                    .                                      Bragnch o   omeca   ansbr
I                                                               ----JTracks
Somiyo                                                                                  js~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~Z ~~~Rivers
*  National capitalV*ior
@ District headquarters
ODivision headquarters
KILOMETERS 0       I0        2         30                  50
MILES  io  io ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dviinboundaries
..........lntrnatonalboundariesI
S         E          N          E         G          A          L
To Zigwnchior                                  Th,gichrI3                                                                                                         ro Z,gu,ncAo'
JANUARY 198



