Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1975 GM
                 (Enterprise Development Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 18, 1989
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January  18,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF THE
GAMBIA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Central
Bank of the  Gambia  (CBG)  through Participating Commercial Banks
(PCBs) with the Borrower's assistance  and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will  make  available  to CBG for relending to
the PCBs part of the  proceeds  of  the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and CBG;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth  in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the  several  terms defined in the General
Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and CBG, of even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Financing  and  Management  Agreement" means
the agreement to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower and CBG
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
supplemental to the Subsidiary Financing and Management Agreement;
     (c)  "Participating  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered  into  between  CBG  and  each  eligible  PCB  pursuant to
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
     (d)  "CBG" means the Central Bank  of the Gambia, a statutory
Corporation established and operating pursuant to the Central Bank
of the Gambia Act, 1971 (Act No. 1);
     (e)  "CBG Act" means the Central Bank of the Gambia Act, 1971
(Act No. 1) as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by a PCB  to  a  Small  and Medium-Scale Enterprise (SME), as
hereinafter  defined,  for  a  Small  and  Medium-Scale Enterprise
Project (SME Project) out of the  proceeds of the Credit relent to
the PCB under the Participating Agreement;
     (g)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "PCBs" means the Banque  Internationale pour le Commerce
et l'Industrie (BICI), the  Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
(GCDB) and the Standard  Chartered  Bank Gambia Limited (SCBG) and
such other commercial banks registered and operating in The Gambia
as the Borrower and the Association shall determine;
     (i)  "SME" means a Gambian owned enterprise with total assets
(not including assets acquired under a Sub-loan or including land)
of not more than $400,000  equivalent  to  which a PCB proposes to
make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (j)  "SME Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an SME utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (k)  "Statement of  Policies  and  Procedures" means Sub-loan
policies  and  procedures  satisfactory   to  the  Association  as
approved  by  CBG's  Board  of  Directors  including  policies and
procedures set out in the Circular referred to in Section 6.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as such policies and procedures may be modified
with the agreement of the Association;
     (l)  "PCC"   means    the    committee    referred    to   in
Page  3
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (m)  "CBG's  Apex  Unit"  means   the  unit  referred  to  in
Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement;
     (n)  "GWFC" means the Gambia Women's Finance Company Limited;
     (o)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (p)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  July 31, 1986, August 1, 1986 and
April 27, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (q)  "Special Project Preparation  Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the  Bank, from the Special Project
Preparation Facility created  by  the  Executive  Directors of the
Bank on January 8, 1985,  to  the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated  August  30,  1985  between  the Borrower and the
Bank;
     (r)  "GCDB" means the Gambia Commercial and Development Bank;
     (s)  "NIB" means the National Investment Board;
     (t)  "MDI" means the Management Development Institute; and
     (u)  "IDU"  means  the  Industrial  Development  Unit  of the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Industrial Development (MEPID).
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to  seven  million  three  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,300,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required  for Parts A and C of the
Project and to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit;
(ii) amounts paid (or, if  the Association shall so agree, amounts
to be paid) by a participating commercial bank (PCB) on account of
withdrawals made  by  a  small  and  medium-scale enterprise (SME)
under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in CBG on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     (d)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the  Bank  an  amount  required  to repay the principal
amount of the  Special  Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and
Page  4
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Special
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower and GCDB of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15,  1998,  and  ending  February 15, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
February 15, 2008, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Page  5
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. CBG is, with respect  to Part B of the Project,
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action  required  or  permitted  to  be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                    Description of the Project;
                   Use of Proceeds of the Credit
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts A and C of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and human resources develop-
ment and public enterprises reform practices and policies.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations  under  the  Development  Credit  Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause CBG to  perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement  all the obligations of CBG therein
set forth, shall take and cause  to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds,  facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate  to  enable  CBG  to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or  permit  to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall establish  and thereafter maintain in
a form and with functions  and  staffing satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, a Project Coordinating  Committee (PCC) to be responsible
for the coordination  generally  of  activities under the Project.
PCC shall consist of  the  Project  Coordinator  (who shall be the
Permanent Secretary  of  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance and
Trade (MFT)), the Project Manager  (who  shall be appointed by MFT
and shall have qualifications  and  experience satisfactory to the
Association), the head of  CBG's  Apex  Unit, and a representative
each of MEPID and NIB.
     (d)  The Borrower shall, out  of  the proceeds of the Credit,
make available to CBG for  relending  on behalf of the Borrower to
eligible PCBs an amount  equivalent  to  $5,400,000, or such other
amount or  amounts  as  shall  be  allocated  to  Category  (1) in
Schedule 1 to  this  Agreement,  under  a Subsidiary Financing and
Management Agreement to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
CBG on terms and conditions which  shall have been approved by the
Association. The  Subsidiary  Financing  and  Management Agreement
shall provide for: (i) collection by CBG from the PCBs of interest
due from the PCBs  under  the respective Participating Agreements;
(ii) retention of an  administrative  fee of two percentage points
by CBG's Apex Unit from the amounts of interest collected from the
PCBs; and (iii) payment by CBG  to the Borrower of the amounts of:
(A) interest as  and  when  collected  by  CBG;  and (B) principal
collected by CBG, payment of  principal  by CBG to the Borrower to
be made over  a  period  not  exceeding  20 years (including three
years of grace reckoned from  the date of the Subsidiary Financing
and Management Agreement).
     (e)  The Borrower shall, out  of  the proceeds of the Credit,
make available to CBG, NIB,  GCDB,  GWFC,  MDI and IDU, as grants,
for purposes of Parts A and C of the Project the amounts allocated
to each of the  said  institutions  in  Categories  (2) and (3) in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  6
     (f)  The Borrower shall, not  later  than December 15 of each
year, review  with  CBG  and  the  Association  the procedures for
setting, and the level of, interest rates for Sub-loans.
     (g)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Financing and  Management  Agreement  in  such  manner as to
protect the interests of the  Borrower  and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the  Credit and, except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate  or  waive   the   Subsidiary  Financing  and  Management
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts A and C  of  the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit  shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Part B  of  the  Project  shall  be  carried out by CBG
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year, audited in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  7
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  CBG shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that CBG will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The CBG Act or the  Statement of Policies and Procedures
shall have been amended,  suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so  as  to  affect  materially  and  adversely  the  operations or
financial condition of CBG or its  ability  to carry out Part B of
the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CBG or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower and CBG; and
     (b)  any event specified in  paragraph  (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the signing of  the  Subsidiary Financing and Management
Agreement;
     (b)  the furnishing by CBG  to  the Association of a circular
satisfactory to the  Association  duly  setting  out the terms and
conditions to govern the making of Sub-loans; and
Page  8
     (c)  the signing of at least one Participating Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by CBG, and  is  legally  binding  upon CBG in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary  Financing  and Management Agreement
has been duly authorized  or  ratified  by, and is legally binding
upon, the Borrower and CBG in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister responsible  for  Finance and Trade of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Ministry of Finance and Trade
           The Quadrangle
           Banjul
           The Republic of the Gambia
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                MINFIN                         2264
                The Republic of the Gambia
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
                        By /s/ Ousman A. Sallah
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  9
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods and services
     for SME Projects:
     (a)   SMEs owned              730,000       100% of amounts
           by women                              disbursed for
                                                 each SME Project
                                                 but not exceed-
                                                 ing 75% of the
     (b)   Other SMEs            3,180,000       total cost of the
                                                 SME Project
(2)  Vehicles and
     equipment:
     (a)   GCDB                     80,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures for
     (b)   NIB                      80,000       directly imported
                                                 items and 90% of
     (c)   CBG's Apex Unit          40,000       locally procured
                                                 items
     (d)   GWFC                     40,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  (a)   Consultants'                          100%
           services and
           training:
          (i)   NIB:
          (A)   for Part            160,000
                A (2) (a)
                of the
                Project
          (B)   for Part C          640,000
                of the Pro-
                ject
         (ii)   GCDB                600,000
        (iii)   GWFC                130,000
Page  10
         (iv)   MDI                 150,000
          (v)   IDU                 190,000
     (b)   Classroom               260,000       100%
           expansion and
           equipping
           under Part A (2)
           (b) of the
           Project (MDI)
(4)  Refunding of                  330,000       Amount due pur-
     Project                                     suant to Section
     Preparation                                 2.02 (c) of this
     Advance                                     Agreement
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)  Refunding of                  150,000       Amount due pur-
     Special Project                             suant to Section
     Preparation                                 2.02 (d) of this
     Advance                                     Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                   540,000
                                 _________
          TOTAL                  7,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Borrower for  goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  unless:  (i) the Sub-loan has
been made in accordance with  the  procedures and on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred  to  in Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement; (ii) a Participating Agreement  has been duly signed by
the PCB making the Sub-loan;  and (iii) the Association shall have
been satisfied, where the Sub-loan was made by GCDB, that GCDB has
made satisfactory progress in carrying out the GCDB rehabilitation
program referred to in Part A(2)(e) of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing
such productive facilities  and  resources  in  the Gambia as will
contribute to the economic and  social development of the country;
(ii) to increase private  sector  participation in the development
of the Gambian economy and thereby generate employment, assist the
development of Gambian  entrepreneurs,  improve the performance of
commercial banks,  and  increase  the  participation  of financial
intermediaries in the  financing  of  private enterprise; (iii) to
continue the  Borrower's  public  enterprise  reform  program; and
(iv) to develop the  capacity  of  banks and other institutions to
prepare, appraise and supervise SME Projects and provide extension
services to SMEs.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
Page  11
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Human Resources Development
1.   Strengthening local training  and  extension institutions and
the  capacity  of  banks  to  appraise  and  supervise development
projects.
2.   A program of institutional reforms including:
     (a)  assistance to  the  National  Investment  Board (NIB) to
develop a comprehensive program of investment promotion and exten-
sion services to SMEs;
     (b)  assistance (including  the  expansion  and  equipping of
classroom space) to the  Management Development Institute (MDI) to
develop and offer courses to: (i) the staff of commercial banks in
project  appraisal  and  supervision;   (ii)   the  staff  of  the
Indigenuous  Business  Advisory  Service  (IBAS),  the  Industrial
Development Unit (IDU), the Gambia Women's Finance Company Limited
(GWFC) and  NIB  on  how  best  to  assist  SMEs  with advice; and
(iii) entrepreneurs in basic business skills;
     (c)  assistance to CBG's  Apex  Unit (including the provision
of a vehicle, a personal  computer and related software) to manage
and administer Sub-loans;
     (d)  assistance to GWFC to devise the best means of assisting
and supporting SMEs owned by  Gambian women (including a survey to
determine such  means)  and  strengthening  of  GWFC's banking and
other operations;
     (e)  assistance to GCDB to: (i) carry out a diagnostic review
of its operations  and  financial  conditions; (ii) strengthen its
management and  operational  capabilities;  and  (iii)  design and
carry out  a  program  satisfactory  to  the  Association  for the
rehabilitation of GCDB;
     (f)  assistance to IDU,  including  the provision of training
for staff of agencies of the Borrower responsible for implementing
the Borrower's Development Act, 1988; and
     (g)  liquidation of the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB).
Part B:   Sub-loan Financing
     The making of Sub-loans through PCBs to eligible SMEs.
Part C:   Public Enterprises Reform
     Assisting NIB  to  manage  the  Borrower's public enterprises
reform program including: (i)  valuations of holdings and prepara-
tion of prospectuses and  information  circulars; review of corpo-
rate plans and performance  contracts; seminars on the performance
of public  enterprises  reform  programs;  studies  of  issues and
problems relating to public  enterprises  reform; and provision of
necessary office and other  equipment  and logistical support; and
(ii) assisting priority public  enterprises  (as determined by the
Borrower and the Association) to:  (A) prepare corporate plans and
restructuring programs; and (B) carry out financial and management
audits, improvements in MIS/accounting  and budgeting systems, and
financial and technical studies and reviews.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
Page  12
     For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
               "15. The term  'Project  Agreement' has the meaning
          set forth  in  paragraph  (b)  of  Section  1.02  of the
          Development Credit Agreement."
     (3)  The provisions "the  Association  may,  by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of  the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon  the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be  cancelled"  set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are  deleted  and  the  following  new provisions are
substituted therefor:
               "or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of
          Part C  of  Schedule  1  to  the  Project Agreement, the
          Association shall,  in  respect  of  any  portion of the
          Credit: (i) have  received  no  applications or requests
          permitted under paragraph 4 (a)  or (b) of said Part; or
          (ii) have denied any  such applications or requests, the
          Association may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, terminate
          the right to submit such applications or approvals or to
          make withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account, as the case
          may be, with respect  to  such  amount or portion of the
          Credit.  Upon the giving  of such notice, such amount or
          portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1  to  this Agreement,
provided, however, that  notwithstanding  the  provisions of para-
graph 3 (b) of  Part  C  of  Schedule  1 to the Project Agreement,
payments for expenditures to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before
the Association shall have  authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account in  respect  thereof.  Such  expenditures,  however, shall
qualify as eligible  expenditures  only  if  the Association shall
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and depo-
sited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Page  13
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the Credit
Account  of  the  remaining   unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Page  14
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Shopping and Local Competitive Bidding
     Goods for Parts A and C  of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Classroom expansion works under  Part  A(2)(b) of the Project
may  be  procured  under   contracts   awarded  on  the  basis  of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  goods  or  works
estimated to cost an  amount  equivalent  to  $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association  pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of
said Appendix shall be furnished  to  the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out  of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to para-
graph 3 of said Appendix shall  be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to  be  furnished  pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (a) (ii) of the Develop-
Page  15
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
