Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1975 GM
                 (Enterprise Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                    CENTRAL BANK OF THE GAMBIA
                      Dated January 18, 1989
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  January  18,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and CENTRAL BANK OF THE
GAMBIA (CBG).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic  of  the  Gambia  (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  seven million three
hundred thousand Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDR 7,300,000), on the
terms  and  conditions  set   forth   in  the  Development  Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that CBG agrees to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by a subsidiary financing  and management agreement (the
Subsidiary Financing and Management  Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and CBG,  part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to CBG on terms  and  conditions  to be set forth in the
Subsidiary Financing and Management Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CBG, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used  in  this  Agreement,  the   several  terms  defined  in  the
Development Credit Agreement and in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part B of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of CBG
     Section 2.01. (a) CBG  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out through the
Participating Commercial Banks (PCBs)  Part  B  of the Project and
conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with the CBG Act
and the Statement of Policies and Procedures.
     (b)  CBG shall lend to  each  eligible PCB under an agreement
(the Participating  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between CBG
acting for the Borrower and each such PCB, on terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, proceeds of the
Credit made available to  CBG  under  the Subsidiary Financing and
Management Agreement. Each  Participating  Agreement shall include
provisions requiring: (i) payment by the PCB of annual interest at
a rate three percentage points  below CBG's treasury bill discount
rate;  (ii)  a  composite   amortization  schedule  based  on  the
aggregate repayment Schedules of  all  Sub-loans  made by the PCB;
(iii) assumption of any foreign exchange  risk by CBG on behalf of
the Borrower for a fee  satisfactory  to the Association; (iv) any
reschedulings of Sub-loans to be  subject to CBG's prior approval;
and (v) the submission to CBG by the PCB of semi-annual reports on
the status of the respective SME Projects.
     (c)  CBG shall no later  than  one month commencing after the
day of  receipt  of  the  semi-annual  reports  furnished it under
paragraph (b) (v)  of  this  Section,  prepare  and furnish to the
Project Coordinating  Committee  (PCC)  and  to  the Association a
summary of the said semi-annual reports.
     (d)  CBG shall  establish  and  thereafter  maintain  an apex
unit (CBG's Apex Unit) in a  form and with functions and staffing,
satisfactory to the  Association.  CBG's  Apex  Unit shall: (i) be
responsible for  managing  and  administering  Sub-loans under the
Project; and (ii) be  headed  by  a person with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 2.02. (a) CBG undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans  will  be made in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  CBG shall exercise its  rights  in  relation to each SME
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and  of  CBG;  and  (ii) comply with its
obligations under  this  Agreement,  the  Subsidiary Financing and
Management Agreement and the Participating Agreements.
     Section 2.03. CBG shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the
Project.
Page  3
     Section 2.04.  CBG  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Financing and Management Agreement. Except as
the Association  shall  otherwise  agree,  CBG  shall  not take or
concur in any action  which  would  have  the effect of assigning,
amending,  abrogating  or  waiving  the  Subsidiary  Financing and
Management Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) CBG shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under  this  Agreement  and  under  the  Subsidiary  Financing and
Management Agreement, and other  matters  relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
     (b)  CBG shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of Part B of the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the  performance  by  CBG  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under  the  Subsidiary Financing and Management
Agreement.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) CBG  shall  maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor  and  record  the  progress  of  Part B of the
Project and of each SME Project  (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived  from  it)  and  to  reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of CBG.
     (b)  CBG shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as  soon as available
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:  (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as  well  as  the  audit  thereof as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of CBG  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
Page  4
         (ii)  a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify CBG of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For CBG:
          Central Bank of The Gambia
          1-2 Buckle Street
          Banjul
          The Gambia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               GAMBANK GV                      2218
               Banjul, The Gambia
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CBG  or  by  CBG  on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by its Governor, or by such  other  person or persons as CBG shall
designate in writing,  and  CBG  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                        By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                        CENTRAL BANK OF THE GAMBIA
                        By /s/ Ousman A. Sallah
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                     Procedures and Terms and
                     Conditions for Sub-loans
A.   Procedures for Sub-loan Processing and Administration
     Each PCB shall have final responsibility for deciding whether
or not a request for a  Sub-loan should be approved. CBG shall, in
its review of any such  request,  determine whether or not the SME
Project  for  which  the   Sub-loan  is  requested  qualifies  for
financing under the Credit. Each PCB shall send through CBG to the
Association for its  approval  the  first  three requests for Sub-
loans approved by the  PCB.  A  Sub-loan  shall  not be made in an
amount exceeding  $300,000  equivalent.  Each  SME  shall  make an
equity contribution of at least  25%  to the total project cost of
an SME Project. A PCB may lend from its own resources up to 15% of
such total costs.
B.   Eligibility, Financial  and  Economic  Valuation Criteria for
     SMEs
1.   In deciding the eligibility of  an  SME  for a Sub-loan a PCB
shall apply the following criteria:
     (a)  the SME requesting  a  Sub-loan  must  be in the private
sector (with at least 51%  private  ownership), it must be engaged
in  productive  activities  other  than  trade,  real  estate  and
subsistence agriculture, but  including  horticulture and poultry,
and it must demonstrate a creditworthiness status;
     (b)  the purpose of  a  Sub-loan  request for working capital
must not be to finance recurrent expenditures; and
     (c)  the SME Project  must  be  shown  to  be financially and
economically viable.
2.   All requests for Sub-loans must  be evaluated in terms of the
ability of the SME concerned  to generate sufficient cash flows to
meet Sub-loan repayments and other debt obligations. For an SME to
be considered financially viable, it must  be shown to have a debt
to equity ratio of  not  more  than  3:1,  a debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.5 and  a  current  ratio of at least 1.2, said
ratios being determined in  accordance with methods of calculation
satisfactory to the Association.  The  financial rate of return of
any SME Project for which  a Sub-loan exceeding $50,000 equivalent
for fixed  investments  is  requested  should  exceed  the cost of
borrowing as determined at the time of appraising the SME Project.
3.   (a)  For all requests for  Sub-loans  in an amount equivalent
to $100,000 or less, PCBs shall  be required to assess whether the
SME  Projects  concerned  would  improve  quality,  price competi-
tiveness or production of goods  and services for which demand has
been  established.  PCBs  shall  also  calculate  simple  economic
indicators, such as expected  impact  on employment and fixed cost
per job created, foreign exchange  earnings  or savings and use of
Page  6
raw materials of local origin.
     (b)  Each Sub-loan request  in  an  amount exceeding $100,000
equivalent shall be subjected  to  a detailed economic evaluation,
including a calculation  (in  accordance  with  a method of calcu-
lation satisfactory to the  Association)  of  its economic rate of
return. The economic rate of return should exceed 10%.
C.   Terms and Conditions
1.   Repayment of principal of a  Sub-loan  shall: (i) in the case
of a Sub-loan to  finance  fixed  investment and permanent working
capital, be made in not less  than  3 years nor more than 12 years
(inclusive of an appropriate grace  period);  and (ii) in the case
of a Sub-loan for  free-standing  working  capital, be made in not
less than 1 year  nor  more  than  3  years  (inclusive of a grace
period of less than 1 year).
2.   Interest payable by SMEs on  Sub-loans shall be market deter-
mined.
3.   No expenditures for  goods  or  services  required for an SME
Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless:
     (a)  the  Sub-loan  for  such  SME  Project  shall  have been
approved by the Association and  such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than ninety days  prior  to the date on which the
Association shall have  received  the  application and information
required under paragraph 4  (a)  of  this  Part in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan  for  the  SME  Project  shall  have been a
free-limit  Sub-loan  for  which  the  Association  has authorized
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than  ninety  days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the request and informa-
tion required under paragraph  4  (b)  of  this Part in respect of
such free-limit  Sub-loan.  For  the  purposes  of the Development
Credit Agreement and this  Agreement,  a free-limit Sub-loan shall
be: (i) a Sub-loan made by  a  PCB after the first three Sub-loans
made by the PCB; and (ii)  a  Sub-loan in an amount to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit  which shall not exceed the sum
of: (i) $150,000 equivalent in  the  case  of an SME when added to
any other outstanding amounts financed  or proposed to be financed
out of a Sub-loan made to  the SME; or (ii) $5,000,000 equivalent,
when added to all other  free-limit  Sub-loans made or proposed to
be made to the SME  concerned, the foregoing amounts being subject
to change from time to time as determined by the Association.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association  for  approval,  CBG shall furnish to the
Association an application, in  form  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, together with: (i) a description of the SME and an appraisal
of the SME Project,  including  a  description of the expenditures
proposed to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit;
(ii) the proposed terms and  conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request  by  CBG  for  authorization  to make with-
drawals  from  the  Credit  Account  in  respect  of  a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain:  (i)  a  summary  description  of the SME,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1992.
Page  7
5.   Sub-loans shall be made on  terms whereby a PCB shall obtain,
by written contract with the SME concerned or by other appropriate
legal means,  rights  adequate  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower, CBG, the Association and the PCB, including, in the case
of any Sub-loan, the right to:
     (a)  require  the  SME  to  carry  out  and  operate  the SME
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and  managerial standards, and to main-
tain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan  shall  be  purchased at a
reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also  of  other relevant
factors, such as time  of  delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability  of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties  rendering them, and (ii) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively  in the carrying out of the
SME Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the CBG and the Association  (if  the CBG or the Association shall
so request), such goods,  works,  plants and construction included
in the  SME  Project,  the  operation  thereof,  and  any relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the  SME  concerned shall take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business practice, and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan to the  place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the SME to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  require  that  the  SME  concerned  shall:  (i) maintain
records and accounts adequate to  reflect in accordance with sound
accounting  practices  its  operations  and  financial  condition,
(ii) have its records, accounts  and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association, (iii) in  the  case  of  a  Sub-loan in an amount
equivalent to $100,000 or  more,  furnish  to  the  PCB as soon as
available but not later than six months after the end of each such
year, the audit report on  the overall annual financial statements
and position of the SME in a form satisfactory to the Association,
and (iv) in the case of a Sub-loan in an amount equivalent to less
than $100,000, allow the PCB:  (A) to inspect the annual financial
statements and position of the  SME,  and (B) to retain records of
the annual financial statements  (whether  or  not audited) of the
SME and make such records available to the CBG for its review;
     (f)  obtain all such information  as  the Association, CBG or
the PCB shall reasonably request  relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and  financial condition of the SME
and to the benefits to be derived from the SME Project; and
     (g)  suspend or terminate the right of  the SME to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan  upon  failure  by the SME to perform
its obligations under its contract with the PCB.
