PARTICIPATORY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT AND EMPOWERMENT
PROJECT
(PADEP)
RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
FEBRUARY 2003



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
A. INTRODUCTION
Tanzania is essentially an agricultural country. Over 80% of its population lives in rural areas
and depends mostly on traditional agricultural and related activities. Agriculture contributes
approximately 50% of GDP. The envisaged PADEP project seeks to increase productivity of
smallholder farmers, to increase farm incomes, to reduce food insecurity, and to enhance
management of soil fertility.
The PADEP project will benefit 840 villages in 28 participating districts (out of a total of 121 in
mainland Tanzania, and additional areas in Zanzibar.
Specifically, it is planned that through the Community Investment Subprojects and Farmer
Group Investment Subprojects of PADEP communities and farmer groups will request financing
for sub-projects. Some of these sub projects may involve the construction of irrigation
infrastructure, such as small dams, water retention ponds and other water management schemes,
as well as those related to improved agricultural technology and marketing of inputs and output.
Tanzania's average population density is relatively low at about 32 people /km2, and therefore
population pressure on scarce land resources is not a major problem theoretically, but it is
important in some localities, particularly semi-arid areas. Nonetheless, efforts should be made in
the design and screening stages of the sub projects to avoid negative impacts on people, land, and
property, including people's access to natural and other economic resources, as far as possible.
The necessity for land acquisition, compensation and resettlement of people may arise for certain
categories of sub projects. When that occurs, the World Bank Operational Policy, OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement and the Government of Tanzania's relevant policies and acts especially
Land Acquisition Act of 1967 will be triggered.
The preparation of a Resettlement Plan is not required at this stage since the sub projects, to be
created on a demand driven basis have not yet been defined. Resettlement plans, when required,
will be specific to particular sub-projects.
Notwithstanding, in line with the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy OP 4.12, the
Government of Tanzania is required to prepare a resettlement policy framework to be disclosed
before appraisal. The resettlement framework establishes the resettlement and compensation
principles, organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to the sub-projects that
will be prepared during project implementation in compliance with the laws of Tanzania and the
Bank's safeguards policy on involuntary resettlement.
The subproject resettlement/compensation plans will be subsequently prepared consistent with
this policy framework and will be submitted to the Bank for approval after specific plannilg
information becomes available. All efforts will be deployed to minimize the need for
resettlement in the project design stage.



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
According to World Bank Operation Policy 4.12 on involuntary resettlement this resettlement
policy framework will cover the following:
* Policy j principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and
implementation
*  A description of the process for preparing and approving resettlement plans
*  Land acquisition and likely categories of impact.
*  Eligibility criteria for defining various categories of project affected persons
*  A Legal framework comparing the borrower laws and regulations and Bank
policy requirements and measures proposed to bridge any gaps between them
*  Methods of valuing affected assets
*  Organizational procedures for delivery of entitlements, including, for projects
involving private sector intermlediaries, the responsibilities of the financial
intermediary, the government, and the private developer
*  A description of the implementation process, linking resettlement implementation
to civil works
*  Description of grievance redress mechanisms
*  A description of mechanisms for consultations with, and participation of,
displaced persons in planning, implementation, and monitoring
*  Arrangements for monitoring by the implementing agency and, if required, by
independent monitors.
B. Policy principles and objectives governing resettlement preparation and implementation
The impacts due to involuntary resettlement from development projects, may give rise to
economic, social and enviromnental risks resulting in production systems being dismantled,
people facing impoverishment when their productive assets or income sources are lost, people
being relocated to environments where their productive skills may be less applicable and the
competition for resources increases; community institutions and social networks being
weakened; kin groups being dispersed; and cultural identity, traditional authority, and the
potential for mutual help being diminished or lost. The resettlement policy may be triggered
because the project activity causes land acquisition, namely: a physical piece of land is needed
and people may be affected because they are cultivating that land, they may have buildings on
the land, they will use the land for watering and grazing of animals or they may otherwise access
the land economically, spiritually or in any other way which may not be possible during and after
2



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
the project is implemented. Therefore people will appropriately be compensated for their loss
(of land, property or access) either in kind or in cash, of which the former is preferred. The Land
Act No.4 and Village Land Act No.5 of 1999 have set clear procedures for full, fair and prompt
compensation while acquiring land from citizens,. These procedures should be adhered to,
especially the Land (assessment of the value of compensation) Regulations - made under S. 1 79
of Land Act No. 4 of 1999. GN 78 published on 4/5/2001.
Therefore, the objectives of this policy are the following:
i)    Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition should be avoided where feasible,
or minimized, exploring all viable alternative sub projects design.
ii)   Where involuntary resettlement and land acquisition is unavoidable, resettlement
and compensation activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable
development programs, providing sufficient investment resources to give tlhe
persons displaced by the project the opportunity to share in project benefits.
Displaced and compensated persons should be meaningfully consulted and should
have opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement
programs.
iii)  Displaced and compensated persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve
their livelihoods and standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms,
to pre-displacement levels or to levels prevailing prior to the begimning of project
implementation, whichever is higher.
Here, the affected people, according to the Bank policy, refer to people who are directly affected
socially and economically by the Bank assisted investment projects, caused by:
(a) the involuntary taking of land and other assets resulting in
(i)   relocation or loss of shelter;
(ii)  loss of assets or access to assets;
(iii)  loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the
affected persons must move to another location;
or
(b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected
areas results in adverse impacts on the livelihood of the displaced persons.
The resettlement policy applies to all components under the project, whether or not they are
directly funded in whole or in part by the Bank.
The policy applies to all displaced persons regardless of the total number affected, the severity of
impact and whether or not they have legal title to land. Particular attention should be paid to the
needs of vulnerable groups among those displaced; especially those below the poverty line, the
landless, the elderly, women and children, indigenous groups and ethnic minorities or other
displaced persons who may not be protected through Tanzania land compensation legislation.
3



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
In particular for PADEP, the policy requires that resettlement plans be developed for sub projects
that entail acquisition of land and for which displacement or restriction of access may result.
Determination of which sub-projects require resettlement plans will be made during the PRA
process leading to the decision to formulate a proposal for a sub-project. Sub-projects that entail
acquisition of land and for which displacement or restriction of access may result will require
resettlement plans; others will not. Implementation of the sub-projects requiring resettlement
plans cannot commence before necessary measures for resettlement and compensation are in
place according to steps identified in the resettlement plan. These measures will include
provision for compensation and other assistance required for relocation, prior to displacement,
and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with adequate facilities, where required. In
particular, the taking of land and related assets may take place only after compensation has been
paid and, where applicable, resettlement sites, new homes, related infrastructure, public services
and moving allowances have been provided to displaced persons. For sub projects requiring
relocation or loss of shelter, the policy further requires that measures to assist the displaced
persons be implemented in accordance with the sub project's resettlement plan of action.
The policy aims to have the affected persons perceive the process and any compensation to be
full, fair and prompt.
C. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESS FOR PREPARING AND APPROVING
RESETTLEMENT PLANS.
To address the impacts under this policy, sub projects resettlement plans must include measures
to ensure that the displaced persons are;
a)    informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement
b)    consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and
economically feasible resettlement alternatives
c)    and provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost for
losses of assets and access attributable to the sub project.
Before implementation of the subproject, three interrelated documents will have to be prepared,
namely,
a)    A socio-economic study (this study will include determination of impacts)
b)    Resettlement plan
c)    A valuation report of land and landed properties of the site
4



WORLDBANKJGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
The purpose of the socio-economic study is to collect base line data within the project targeted
areas thereby enabling the social assessment of potentially affected populations/communities.
Under this study a comprehensive census would be carried out to identify potentially affected
people on the individual and household levels, vulnerable groups (women, children, the elderly,
female headed households, etc.). The social assessment would focus on identification of
stakeholders (demographic data), the participation process, identification of affected people and
impact on their property and their production systems, the institutional analysis and the system
for monitoring and evaluation. Detailed calculation of household economies and identification of
all impacts will be necessary in the social assessment and be the determinant in the potential
compensation process.
The components of the sub project resettlement/compensation plan will be:
* Description of the Sub project
* Potential Impacts
* Sub project Objectives
* Relevant findings of the socio-economic study
* Legal framework
* Institutional framework
* Eligibility
* Valuation of and compensation of lbsses
* Resettlement measures
* Site selection, site preparation, and relocation
* Housing, infrastructure and social services
* Environmental protection and management
* Community participation
* Integration with host populations
* Grievance procedures
* Organizational responsibilities
* Implementation schedule
* Costs and budget
* Monitoring and evaluation
The local communities who are to be assisted by PADEP, will be advised during the subproject
identification/preparation stage whether of not the resettlement policy will be triggered. At that
stage the local community may decide to drop the sub project on that basis. If they chose to
continue with the sub project, however, then they will be advised to prepare a resettlement plan,
and will be assisted to do so. The resettlement plan will then be forwarded for screening and
approval through the District Council in compliance with the project institutional administrative
arrangements.
The Ministry responsible for Agriculture and Food Security will have representatives to provide
the necessary technical support required at this level.
5



WORLDBANKJGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Sub projects requiring resettlement plans that are approved at the district level will be subject to
final screening by the PADEP Project Coordination Unit. The EA and resettlement plans would
also be reviewed and approved by the Bank to ensure compliance with Bank Safeguards, thereby
ensuring that before the sub project is approved for funding by the Bank, the resettlement plans
are consistent with this framework policy.
Therefore, each sub project that is proposed to be included would be screened and classified
according to its environmental and social impact. The screening and classification process
should follow certain criteria already established and the mitigation measures that will be
proposed vis a vis environmental and social issues should be in compliance with all Government
of Tanzania environmental policies and World Bank Safeguard policies. Certain activities will
not be funded by the project, including those likely to trigger selected safeguards for e.g.
disputed areas, cultural property, indigenous peoples and natural habitats.
The DMT will screen the proposed sub projects that it receives from the beneficiaries.
The Screening Process
The screening process would take the form of:
General sub project sub sector classification:
a. Dam construction
b. Expand irrigated areas
c. Expanded land areas or consolidation in order to make more rational use of
land
Agro-ecological zonal location of Sub project
* Coastal zone
* Semi-arid zone
* Highland zone
* Mountainous zones
1.)   Classifying the sub projects by activity into the following categories;
Identification of the type of sub-project, and determination of whether the sub-
project will entail repair/ rehabilitation or new construction. In general sub-
projects that repair and/or rehabilitate existing infrastructure will not trigger the
resettlement policy. Those that entail new construction are more likely to trigger
the policy if the activity involves acquisition of land and if displacement or
restriction of access may result. Types of activity might require resettlement plans
include the following, inter alia; e.g.,
i)    Dam construction
ii)   Expanded irrigated areas
iii)  Expansion or consolidation of land areas to improve use
6



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
2.)  Identifying and evaluating potential impacts for each proposed sub project
according to whether land is acquired and whether displacement or loss of access
may result.
3.)   Triggering of the resettlement policy will be one criterion by which sub projects
can be rejected.
4.)   Alternatively, triggering of the resettlement policy would require further a
preliminary determination of whether the sub project should be proposed or not,
based on an assessment of the intensity of the impact and on the mitigation
measures that would need to be developed and proposed. The communities and/or
farmer groups may then determine whether or not to proceed to present the
proposal to the DMT even where extensive/cumbersome mitigation measures are
deemed necessary in the sub project.
Determining the need for land acquisition and, if so, whether it is necessary to
obtain legal title to the land. Under the right-of-occupancy land tenure system,
legal title as expressed in a property deed is not always necessary.
5.)   Use of the Socio Economic Studies to identify affected people on the household
level and vulnerable groups in the sub project impact area(s) and to calculate
household economies.
6.)   Using the environmental assessments
7.)   Ensuring that land required/acquired is not, (i) in disputed areas, (ii) cultural
property, (iii) negatively affecting indigenous peoples and (iv) is not in natural
habitats. This is a pre-condition for approval.
The above screening process should be used by the local communities assisted by technical
personnel in the district in the preparation of their sub projects to enhance likelihood approval.
At the level of the DMT, project proposals will be reviewed according to the same criteria. The
DMT would also review the sub project Environmental Assessment (EA) reports.
Furthermore, the DMT should as a guideline consider the cumulative factor and not approve sub
projects that have individual high impact intensity. For example, where land acquisition is
required to such an extent that it would require more than 20% of a community's or individual
household's total land under cultivation or when the mitigation measures are so cumbersome that
their efficacy cannot be ensured or they cost more than 20% of the investment budget, district
authorities should in general reject such proposals.
Before a decision to approve a sub project requiring a resettlement plan is taken, the DMT will
need to approve the resettlement plan of the sub project together with the overall environmental
and social screening process that has been applied for each sub project and to also approve or
disapprove of the proposed mitigation measures, if any.
7



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
With respect to PADEP in Tanzania the following is a sample of possible sub projects that may
be proposed by the communities and/or farmer groups that would trigger the involuntary
resettlement policy with probable environmental and social impact;
Sub proJect                Impact                   OP 4.12
Construction of Dams for  Land acquisition, lack of          Yes
Irrigation and water supply  access, loss of shelter. Risk
of flooding.
Expansion of areas under -as above                         -as above
irrigation
Expansion   of  area  or -as above                         -as above
consolidation of parcels for
improved      agricultural
production
The sub projects are expected to be small in scale. The cumulative effect of hundreds of sub
prQjects, however, may be significant and a review must be made at a level higher than the
community level on the possible cumulative ~impact of the sub projects. If the impact is
significant, individual mitigation measures per sub project should be assessed to determine their
adequacy relative to the cumulative impact. When the cumulative impact of sub projects is being
considered at the local, regional and/or national levels, additional mitigation measures may be
deemed necessary. These would have to be integrated into the resettlement plans of sub projects
and the monitoring and evaluation plan of the project.
Capacity will be built at the community levels by providing technical assistance to allow
communities to screen their sub-project ideas for environmental and social concerns. This
training will also include the capacity to develop mitigation measures to meet environmental and
social impacts and to prepare implementation of such measures. Capacity will also be built at the
decentralized (departmental) levels of the district authorities as well as at national level of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security to assist them effectively to carry out their role at both
the district levels and at the central levels. District Facilities Teams that are required to work
with local communities should be targeted.for training to enhance their skills and to produce
more of them. This would build capacity at the local level, which is crucial for the success of this
project.
Communities and/or farmer groups may use the templates below during the PRA process to
determine whether or not proposed sub-projects will entail acquisition of land, and if so, who
may be among the affected people.
8



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
PARTICIPATORY AGRICULTURAL DELOPMENT AND EMPOWERMENT
PROJECT
SUBPROJECT LAND REQUIREMENT AND ACQUISITION FORMS
(a); Existing land resources
1. Name of Village:...........................................
Postal Address: P. 0. Box .................. District ...  Region
2. Current land tenure/ownership in the village                            Ha.
*  Individual land...................................................................................
*  Household  land  ................................................................................
*  Community land, e.g. belonging to religious organizations,
*  CBOs, other (specify) .........   ...................... .......................
*  Village land (under Village Government) ........................ ....................
*  Government land (under Central Government) ..........................................
TOTAL LAND RESOURCES ........................................
3. Subproject land requirement....
4. Agreement to meet subproject land requirement, as per Village Government
Meeting of (day/month/year) and confirmed by Village Assembly of (day/month/year)
Sample form for agreement regarding identification of land needed
for a sub-project:
With         Without     Sub- total
compensation compensation
Ha            Ha           Ha
Wholly from village land
Partly as follows:
* From individual land
*  From household land
*  From community land
*  From village land
*  From government land
Grand-total allocation
9



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                   RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Assessment of overall current land use
Tenure system                 Current land use in ha.                Remarks
Fallow      Cropped      Grazing/ Forest Mixed
pasture          (specify)
Individual land
Household
land
Community
land                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Village land
Government
land
TOTAL
Assessing current use of earmarked land
Tenure system                 Current land use in ha.                Remarks
Fallow      Cropped      Grazing/ Forest Mixed
pasture          (specify)
Individual land
Household
land
Community
land
Village land
Govemment
land                                                                __________1
T O T A L_       _  _   _ _ _  _  _  _   _ _ _  _  _  _   _ _ _  _  _  _   _  _
10



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Analyzing Subproject land allocation from individual land with
corresponding compensation
With     Compens    Compensat
Name of individual   compensa   ation rate   ion per
tion       /ha      individual
1. ___________________     Ha        TShs.       TShs.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
41. 
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19 .                                   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
20.                                               _ _ _ _ _ _
Total
The first table above gives an overview of the land resources available in the village. The next
table shows the current land use in overall terms while the next gives the current land use of that
land which is earmarked for allocation to the development project. The last specifies the
contribution of individuals to the land earmarked for the subproject, and the agreed
compensation.
D. SUBPROJECTS IDENTIFIED CATEGORIES OF POTENTIAL IMPACTS
Generally, the subprojects, which are likely to be proposed by community, are individually not
expected to generate major negative environmental impacts to the human and natural
environment. However, their cumulative impacts could be significant. Again, based the types of
possible projects to be funded by PADEP, potential negative social and environmental impacts
are presented in the Table below, together with their mitigation measures.
11



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Table 2.1: Potential negative impacts & mitigation measures by PADEP possiblc
subproject types
Subproject type          Potential impacts   Mitigation measures
Watershed   management * Land use conflicts, *  Awareness raising
for   soil  and   water     loss of land and  *  Participatory land use planning and
conservation                property           management
* Illegal harvesting  *  Application of the Resettlement Policy
* Encroachment         Framework (resettlement and
* Lost opportunities   compensation)
* Infringement on   *   By-laws and their effective
property rights     enforcement
* Joint management programmes
*  Provision of alternatives
Conservation tillage     *  Contamination of  *  Soil conservation measures
ground water     *  Fertilization management
table and river  *  Proper residue management
pollution        *  Awareness raising
*  Disturbance on   * IPM
ecological       * Proper site selection
functioning of
farming systems
*  Loss of
historical/cultural
sites
*  Reluctance to
reduce plowing
Efficient use of fertilizers  *  Health risks  *  Conduct training of safe use
*  Salinization     *   Use of high grade fertilizers
*  Surface &        *   Salinity monitoring
groundwater      *  Integrated soil fertility management
contamination/pol *  Provision of protective gear
lution           *  Bringing the moisture content to 7-8
*  Dust                percent
*  Air pollution    *   Biodiversity assessment and
*  Promoting weed      monitoring
growth
Fuel efficient technology  *  Ground water   *  Control surpluses of slurry
pollution        *   Cover the soil
*  Ammonia losses    *  Locate far from residential settings
*  Effect on         *  Different design concepts
vegetables and
fodder
12



WORLDBANKJGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Increasing  productivity  *  Salinization of  *  Awareness and training
through use of organic      soils            *  Promote high value crops
manure in   combination  *  Contamination of  * Use of high grade fertilizers
with  mineral fertilizers,  surface and      .
bio-ferti lizers            groundwater
* Loss of plant
species
Integrated plant nutrition  *  Salinization of  *  Awareness and training
techniques/strategies       soils            *  Salinity monitoring
(PNS)                    *  Pollution of     *  Integrated soil fertility management
surface and      *  Promoting weed growth
groundwater
* Loss of some
plant
* Health risks
Integrated         pest *   Soil             *  Awareness and training
management (IPM)            contamination    * High value crops
*  Water resources  *   Conduct biodiversity assessment and
pollution           monitoring
*  Loss of animal
and plant species
Increased use of labour *   Loss of soil     * Employ farm management principles
saving techlnologies        fertility        * Use of appropriate technology
*  Loss of water    * Awareness raising
sources          * Participatory land-use planning
*  Loss of plant and  *  Gender awareness in selection of
animal species      technology
* Potential land
conflicts
Use of rainwater         *  Contamination of  *  Awareness & training on safe
harvesting techniques       stored water       handling and storage
*  Siltation due to  * Disinfections
erosion          *  By-laws and their effective
*  Potential floods    enforcement
during heavy     *  Provision of safe watering
rains               points/structures for livestock
*  Water and land    *  Participatory planning
use conflicts
* Land degradation
at livestock
watering points
Improvement of           *  Land and water   *  Awareness & training
traditional irrigation      use conflicts    *  Participatory land and water use
schemes                  *  Loss of land and   planning & management, e.g. WUAs
property         * Application of the Resettlement Policy
13



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                  RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
*  Water-borne         Framework (resettlement and
diseases            compensation).
*  Secondary water   *  By-laws and enforcement
uses (domestic,   *  Provide for domestic and livestock
livestock)          water supply
*  Infringement on   *  Include access crossings at convenient
access and          locations for people and livestock
movement for      *  Provide for drainage of tail waters
humans and
livestock
* Water logging
* Poor water
quality esp. for
downstream users
Improvement in livestock  *  Overgrazing      *  Awareness & training
production               *   Land degradation  *  Observing land carrying capacity
*  Health risks from  *  Combine with biogas technology
use of acaricides
in dips
*  Gas emissions
Production    of   non- *    Soil             *   Quarantine
traditional crops            contamination    *  Adherence to regulations
*  Introduction of   *  Awareness & training
new pests         *  Biodiversity assessment and
*  Loss of habitats     monitoring
and species
Supply of farm inputs    *   Wastes from.     *  Proper disposal of wastes
packaging         *  Institute by-laws
materials plastics,  *  Awareness & training
tins and cans     *  Provision of protective gear
*  Livestock and
wildlife might
consume the
plastic materials
*  Health risks from
agro-chemicals
Initial  processing   of *   Wastes from      *  Provide for proper waste disposal
agricultural and livestock  processing .      *  Ensure hygienic conditions
products                 *  Contamination of  *  Conduct biodiversity assessment and
products             monitoring
*  Vibrations        *  Provision of protective gears, health
*  Soil and liquid      insurance, awareness raising
wastes from       *  Adherence to industrial health
processing might     regulations
affect plant and
animal species
14



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Improvement   of   crop  *  Wastes at markets  *  Waste management strategies
produce marketing        *  Contamination of  *  Design an appropriate sanitary land-
products            fill
*  Soil             * Provide for water supply and
contamination       sanitation facilities
*  Poor sanitation
E. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR DEFINING VARIOUS CATEGORIES OF
AFFECTED PERSONS
At this stage it would not be possible to attempt to quantify the estimated likely number of
people who may be affected since the sub projects have not been created.
However, the likely displaced persons can be categorized into three groups, namely;
i)    Affected Individual - An individual who suffers loss of assets or investments, land
and property and/or access to natural and/or economical resources as a result of the
sub- projects and to whom compensation is due. For example, an affected individual
is a person who farms, or who has built a structure on land that is now required by a
sub project for purposes other than farming or residence by the initial individuals.
ii)   Affected Household  - A household is affected if one or more of its members is
affected by project activities, either by loss of property, land, loss of access or
otherwise affected in any way by project activities. This provides for:
a)    any members in the households, men, women, children, dependent relatives
and friends, tenants.
b)    vulnerable individuals who may be too old or ill to farm along with the others
c)    relatives who depend on one another for their daily existence.
d)    any members in the households, men, women, children, dependent relatives
and friends, tenants, and
e)    Other vulnerable people who cannot participate for physical or cultural
reasons in production, consumption, or co-residence.
Compensation will not be limited to people who live together in a co-resident group,
since this might leave out people whose labor contributions are critical to the functioning
of the "household".
iii)  Affected local community - A community is affected if project activities affect
their socio-economic and/or social-cultural relationships or cohesion. For example project
activities could lead into such improvement of socio-economic welfare that class-
consciousness arises coupled with cultural erosion etc.
15



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
iv)   Vulnerable Households -   vulnerable households may have different land
needs from most households or needs unrelated to the amount of land available to
them.:
a) unmarried women
b) Non-farming
c) Elderly
d) The infirm or ill
e) Orphans
Each category of vulnerable person or household must be compensated according to the nature of
the economic loss suffered by loss of access to or use of the land acquired by the sub-project.
The Bank's OP4. 12 suggests the following three criteria for eligibility;
a) Those who have formal legal rights to land (including customary and traditional
rights recognized under the laws of Tanzania);
b) Those who do not have formal legal rights to land but have a claim to such land or
assets- provided that such claims are recognized under the laws of Tanzania or
become recognized through a process identified in the resettlement plan.
c) Those wh1o have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying.
Those covered under a) and b) above are to be provided compensation for the land they lose, and
other assistance in accordance with the policy. Persons covered under c) above are to be
provided with resettlement assistance in lieu of compensation for the land they occupy, and other
assistance, as necessary, to achieve the objectives set out in this policy, if they occupy the project
area prior to a cut-off date established by the Government of Tanzania and acceptable to the
Bank. Persons who encroach on the area after the cut-off date are not entitled to compensation or
any other form of resettlement assistance. All persons included in a), b) or c) above are to be
provided with compensation for loss of assets other than land.
Therefore, it is clear that all affected persons irrespective of their status or whether they have
formal titles, legal rights or not, are eligible for some kind of assistance if they occupied the land
before the entitlement cut-off date. The entitlement cut-off date refers to the time when the
assessment of persons and their property in the project area is carried out, i.e. the time when the
project area has been identified and when.the socio-economic study is taking place. Thereafter,
no new cases of affected people will be considered. Persons who encroach the area after the
socio-economic survey (census and valuation) are not eligible for compensation or any form of
resettlement assistance.
Eligibility for Community Compensation
Local Communities (villages, cantons wards; divisions etc) permanently losing land and/or
access to assets on under customary rights will be eligible for compensation.
16



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
F. A LEGAL FRAMEWORK COMPARING THE BORROWER LAWS AND
REGULATIONS WITH THE BANK POLICY REQUIREMENTS AND MEASURES
PROPOSED TO BRIDGE ANY GAPS BETWEEN THEM.
LAND TENURE AND OWNERSHIP
Land in Tanzania is owned by the state, and ownership is vested with the President. It is
categorized as follows: general/public land on which socio-economic activities are permitted;
reserved/restricted lands for national parks; protected areas; and forest/wildlife reserves. About
25% of Tanzania falls into the category of reserved/ restrictive. By international standards this is
a high proportion of land under restriction.. Only about 20% of potentially arable land is actually
cultivated.
Communities and individuals are not permitted to use reserved or restricted land for economic
activities. Land is so designated by order of the President or the Minister charged with
conservation of natural resources.
Tenure rights to land in the first category can be held by individuals and by communities. Village
communities are allowed to hold land and to manage it, although they do not formally own the
land. Holdings of individuals can be as follows:-
* By leasehold right of occupancy for varying periods; e.g. for 33,66,99 years
* By customary lands i.e. in usufruct in perpetuity.
Tenure rights are defined by the Land Act and the Village Act. The Land Act No. 5 of 1999
provides for village land to be administered and managed by the local communities. Land that is
not village land can be allocated by the state to users under specified tenure regimes. In addition,
Participatory Land Use Planning and Management (PLUM) is explicitly recognized in the Land
Policy of 1 995. The adjudication function on village lands is assigned to the village government.
Taxation is the prerogative of local authorities. Villagers hold rights of occupancy and use for an
indefinite (i.e., unlimited) period. Village lands do not have to be titled for rights of users and
occupants to be recognized, and are not subject to rental payments. Security of tenure is not a
major issue at the village level.
In accordance with provisions of the Tanzanian legal framework, a process for preparing and
approving resettlement plans should be based on PLUM (with technical assistance of relevant
district functional officers). The Village government should therefore be able to:
*  Review the proposal to prepare a resettlement plan
*  Discuss the proposal in its village organs
*  Prepare and agree on proposals of the resettlement plan
*  Approve the resettlement plan subject national legislations esp. Land Act no. 4 of 1999
and Land Acquisition Act of 1967.
17



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Land Tenure for Sub Projects
Village government has administrative control over the village land and acts as a liaison between
the government and the inhabitants of the village. Within villages, use of land is controlled by
various committees of village government.
At present, local communities are operating on their own land. However, if their sub projects
require more land, extension of their existing land or new land, they would have to acquire the
land through the village government.
G. METHODS OF VALUING AFFECTED ASSETS
The valuation of affected assets will be carried out by estimation of the market value, when it is
known, and/or by estimation of the replacement cost. Graves are valued separately - under the
Graveyard Removal Act of 1968..
Valuations methods for affected land and assets would depend on the type of asset. The land
asset types identified under Tanzania law in this policy framework are;
i)    State Land not within the jurisdiction of a village
ii)   Village Land, including customary rights of villagers
State owned land would be allocated free (perhaps except for surveying and registration fees),
and the sub project would be expected to pay to acquire land in this category in cases where the
state-owned land is being used by individual farmers. This is because, although state owned, the
land may be used by individuals and/or household farmers. The guiding principle is that whoever
was using the land to be acquired by the sub project, would be provided other land of equal size
and quality.
Assets held under customary rights on state owned land would have to be valued according to the
following method and compensation paid for.
The sub projects would value and duly compensate for assets and investments, including land,
crops, buildings, and other improvements, according to the provisions of the resettlement plan
Compensation rates would be market rates as of the date and time that the replacement is to be
provided. The current prices for cash crops would have to be determined. Compensation would
be based on valuation at or before the entitlement cut off date in compliance with this policy.
Homestead sites such as bush are community property. Only structures on the site belong to
individuals. The permanent loss of any homestead site will be covered by community
compensation which will be in-kind only.



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Compensation for Land
Compensation is intended to provide a farmer whose land is acquired and used for sub project
purposes with compensation for land, labor, and crop loss. For this reason, and for transparency,
land is defined as an area:
* In cultivation
* Being prepared for cultivation, or
* Cultivated during the last agricultural season
This definition recognizes that the biggest investment a farmer makes in producing a crop is his
or her labor. A farmer works in his/her land ,most of the months of the year. The major input for
producing a crop is not seed or fertilizer, but the significant labor put into the land each year by
the farmer. As a result, when land acquired has a standing crop, the farmer will be compensated
in full for the expected market value of the crop. This compensation will cover loss of
investment of labor and purchased inputs for the production year in question.
FORMS OF COMPENSATION
Cash Payments       Compensation will be calculated and paid in the national
currency. Rates will be based on the market value of land
when known, or estimated when not known, plus
compensation for the value of standing crops.
In-Kind             Compensation may include items such as land, houses,
Compensation        other buildings, building materials, seedlings, agricultural
inputs and financial credits for equipment.
Assistance          Assistance may include moving allowance, transportation
and labor
Because land market transactions are not recorded in Tanzania, market values may not be
observable, and will have to be imputed through simple estimation of discounted loss of the
stream of future income derived from land. As an approximate rule in a country with ample land
and labor-intensive agriculture, the contribution of land can be imputed as about 25% of the
gross market value of output. The present value of this future income stream in perpetuity, when
discounted back to the present at a discount rate of 12% amounts to approximately twice the
average annual value of output. Therefore a person who gives up a parcel of agricultural land for
use by a sub-project could be adequately compensated in cash in the amount of twice the average
value of gross annual output (plus the additional value of the standing crop, if any).
Compensation in kind would take the form of provision of an alternative parcel of equal size and
quality. If cash compensation is used, financial institutions should encourage the use of their
facilities to reduce likelihood of loss or theft when beneficiaries are compensated in cash. Each
recipient in consultation with the project implementation unit will decide upon the time and place
for in-kind compensation payments.
19



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                  RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
A subproject that interferes with pastoralists or grazing land will not be approved for financing
by the Project unless the affected people have been offered alternative land as compensation in
kind and acceptable to the affected people.
Compensation for buildings and Structures.
Compensation will be paid by replacing structures such as huts, houses, farm outbuildings,
latrines, and fences on alternative land provided as in-kind compensation. Cash compensation
would be available as a preferred option for structures (i.e. extra buildings) lost, that are not the
main house or house in which someone is living. The going market prices for construction
materials will be determined. Alternatively, compensation will be paid in-kind for the
replacement cost without depreciation of the structure.
Compensation will be made for structures that are:
* Abandoned because of relocation or resettlement of an individual or household, or
*  Directly damaged by construction activities.
Replacement values will be based on:
*  Related structures and support services
*  Average replacement costs of different types of homestead buildings and structures based
on collection of information on the numbers and types of materials used to construct
different types of structures (e.g. bricks, rafters, bundles of straw, doors etc.),
*  Prices of these items collected in different local markets,
*  Costs for transportation and delivery of these items to acquired/ replacement land or
building site,
*  Estimates of construction of new buildings including labor required.
Compensation for Sacred Sites
The use of sacred sites, ritual sites, tombs and cemeteries is not permitted under this project.
Compensation for vegetable gardens and beehives.
These are planted primarily for use within the household. Until a replacement garden starts to
bear, the family losing gardens or beehives will have to purchase vegetables and honey in the
market. The replacement costs therefore, will be calculated based on the local market rates for
these products at the time.
20



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Beehives are placed in various locations in the bush by some individuals that specialize in honey
gathering. If such hives would be disturbed by the sub project activities, or access to the hives
denied, beekeepers can move them, and the bees will adapt to the new locations. Activities of
beekeepers would be valued and duly compensated based on value of one season's production
costs of honey for each hive that is moved and any reasonable costs associated with moving the
hive.
Large fruit and crop trees
Large fruit/trees e.g. mangoes and coconut important as a source of:
* Subsistence food for families
* Petty market income in some areas, and
* Shade
Given their significance to the local subsistence economy, which this project intends to enhance,
mango and coconut trees will be compensated on a combined replacement/market value. Mango
and coconut trees used for commercial purposes will be compensated at market value based on
historical production records. If households chose to resettle, they will be compensated for the
labor invested in the trees they leave behind. The compensation rate will be based on information
obtained from the socio-economic study. From this study, a compensation schedule for trees can
be developed incorporating the following goals:
*  Replace subsistence mango and coconut production yields as quickly as possible.
*  Provide subsistence farmers with trees to extend the number of months of the year during
which fruit is produced and can be harvested as a supplemental source of food for their
families during their "hungry season".
*  Provide farmers with the opportunity to derive additional production income from trees
bearing more valuable fruits at off-season periods.
*  Provide cash payments to farmers to replace pre-subproject income derived from the sale
of excess production until replacement trees produce the equivalent (or niore) in
projected cash income.
It should be pointed out the Valuation Division in the Ministry of Lands and Human Settlements
Development has developed crop compensation rates. These rates are to be reviewed every year.
Compensation assessment must be approved by Chief Government Valuer. Displaced people
have to be issued with land form 59 and 70 which allows them to indicate what they expect to be
compensated.
The compensation schedule is based on providing a combination of new grafted and local trees
to farmers, as well as cash payments to offset lost yearly income.
21



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Proposed Schedule for Mango and Coconut Trees Cut Down
Type/Age of Tree   Est.        In-kind replacement for
Years            Local Mangoes
Sapling            0-1    Deliver to Farmer:
Trees planted after          *  Choice of two mango trees
sub project cut-off             (local and/or improved grafted)
date in area will not        *  Supplies: fencing to protect
be eligible for                 Tree, a bucket for watering, and
compensation                    a spade.
Sapling/Young Tree  1-6   Deliver to farmer:
First minor                  *  Choice of two mango trees
production 12-50                (local and/or improved grafted)
fruits occurs about          *   Supplies: fencing to protect
age 4-5                         Tree, a bucket for watering, and a
spade
Mango Trees        6-30+  Deliver to farmer:
Fruit Producing              *  Choice of two mango trees
(local and/or improved grafted)
*  Supplies: fencing to protect
Tree, a bucket for watering, and a
spade
Mature Trees - Low  30+   Same as for mature trees above
or
Non- Fruit
Producing         I_I
No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of limbs
will be prorated on the basis of the number of square metres of surface area removed. The total
surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula: (1/2 diameter of canopy) 2X
3.14.
Other domestic fruit and shade trees.
These trees have recognized local market values. Depending upon the species and age.
Individual compensation for wild trees "owned" by individuals, who are located in lands as
defined in this policy, will be paid. Note that wild, productive trees belong to the community
when they occur in the true bush as opposed to a fallow land. These trees will be compensated
under the umbrella of the village or community compensation.
Examples include: avocado, bananas, lemon, guava, lime, oranges, grapefruits, papaya, tamarind
etc.
22



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania               RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION
Sub-Category                   Unit                Compensation Value
(TSHS)
Foodstuffs & others
Domestic Fruit Trees
Avocado                          Non-productive                13,000
productive
Non-productive                 11,000
Banana                             productive
Lemon                            Non-productive                 5,000
productive
Guava                            Non-productive                 6000
Productive
Lime                             Non-productive                 5,000
Productive
Orange                           Non-productive                14,000
Productive
Grapefruit                       Non-productive                 2,000
Productive
Papaya                           Non-productive                 4,000
productive
Shade Trees
Young            |         2,000
l   adult        1         5,000
Individual Owned Wild Productive Trees
Tamarind                        Non-productive                 13,000
productive
Crops
Maize                            Yield/ha 1,200                110,000
Rice                             Yield/ha 1,000                180,000
Beans                             Yield/ha 500                 87,000
Vegetables
Tomatoes                         Yield/ha 8,300                220,000
Water melon                      Yield/ha 8,300                860,000
Lettuce                          Yield/ha 3,500                305,000
Cauliflower                      Yield/ha 5,000               275,000
Carrot                          Yield/ha 10,000                880,000
23



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
H. ORGANIZATIONAL PROCEDURES FOR DELIVERY OF ENTITLEMENTS,
INCLUDING, FOR PROJECTS INVOLVING PRIVATE SECTOR INTERMEDIARIES,
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY, THE
GOVERNMENT, AND THE PRIVATE DEVELOPER.
Compensation (and resettlement) will be funded like any other activity eligible under the
projects' administrative and financial management rules and manuals.  Payments will be
included in the costing of the project, and finances for the payments will be made available to the
communities and/or farmer groups through the usual flow of funds. For sub-projects involving
payment of compensation, monitoring activities will include confirmation that payments were
received by those entitled to them.
The compensation process will involve several steps and would be in accordance with the sub-
project resettlement plans, significantly;
*  Public  Participation:  Local communities would initiate assessment of the
appropriateness of compensation at the concept stage of the sub project. Affected
individual/households will be invited to become involved in design activities.
*  Notification Affected individuals and households will be identified during the PRA
process and notified. The user will be informed through both a formal notification in
writing and, as many as people are illiterate, by verbal notification delivered in the
presence of the village chief or his or her representative. In addition, the chairman,
village chiefs committees individuals who control fishing areas, wild trees, or beehives
will accompany the survey teams to identify sensitive areas.
*  Documentation of Holdings and Assets - village officials and District Project Officer to
arrange meetings with affected individuals and/or households to discuss the
compensation process. For each individual or household affected, the District Project
Officer completes a compensation dossier containing necessary personal information on,
the affected party and those that s/he claims as household members, total land holdings,
inventory of assets affected, and information for monitoring their future situation. This
information is confirmed and witnessed by village officials; Dossiers will be kept current
and will include documentation of lands surrendered. This is necessary because it is
possible that an individual will surrender several parcels of land over time and will
eventually become eligible for resettlement. All claims and assets will be documented in
writing.
*  Agreement on Compensation and Preparation of Contracts - All types of
compensation are clearly explained to the individual or household. The District Project
Officer (DPO) draws up a contract listing all property and land being surrendered, and
the types of compensation (cash and/or in-kind) selected. A person selecting in-kind
compensation has an order form, which is signed and witnessed. The compensation
contract is read aloud in the presence of the affected party and the village Chairman and
other village leaders prior to signing~
* Compensation Payments - All payments and transfers in kind will be made in the
presence of the affected party and the village authorities.
24



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
Community Compensation Payments
Community compensation will be in-kind only for a community as a whole in the form of
reconstruction of the facility to at least the same standard or better standard to that being built by
local NGO's. Examples of community compensation include,
*  School Building (public)
*  Public Toilets
*  Well or Pump
*  Market Place
*  Road
*  Storage warehouse
1. A DESCRIPTION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS, LINKING
RESETTLEMENT IMPLEMENTATION TO CIVIL WORKS.
Before any project activity is implemented, people who are affected and have been determined to
be entitled to compensation will need to be compensated in accordance to the policy and the
resettlement policy framework. For sub projects involving land acquisition, it is further required
that these measures include provision of compensation and of other assistance required for
relocation, prior to displacement, and preparation and provision of resettlement sites with
adequate facilities, where required. In particular, the taking of land and related assets may take
place only after compensation has been paid and, where applicable, resettlement sites and
moving allowances have been provided to displaced persons. For sub projects requiring
relocation or loss of shelter, the policy further requires that measures to assist the displaced
persons be implemented in accordance with the sub project's resettlement plan of action.
The measures to ensure compliance with *this policy directive would be included in the
resettlement plans that would be prepared for each sub project involving resettlement or
compensation. The timing mechanism of these measures would ensure that no individual or
affected household would be displaced due to civil works activity before compensation is paid
and resettlement sites with adequate facilities are prepared and provided for to the individual or
household affected. Once the resettlement plan is approved by the local and national authorities,
the resettlement plan should be sent to the World Bank for review and approval.
J. A DESCRIPTION OF GRIEVANCE REDRESS MECHANISMS.
At the time the resettlement plan is approved and individual compensation contracts are signed,
affected individuals would have been informed of the process for expressing dissatisfaction and
to seek redress. The grievance procedure will be simple, administered as far as possible at the
local level to facilitate access, flexible and open to various proofs taking into cognizance the fact
most people are illiterate requiring a speedy, just and fair resolution of their grievances.
Communities and/or farmer groups will in general be a party to the contract would not be the
best organizations to receive, handle and rule on disputes. Therefore, taking these concerns into
account, all grievances concerning non-fulfillment of contracts, levels of compensation, or
25



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
seizure of assets without compensation should be addressed to the district authorities either in
writing or in person.
In the local cultures it takes people time to decide that they are aggrieved and want to complain.
Therefore, the grievance procedures will give people up to the end of the next full agricultural
season after surrendering their assets to set forth their case.
All attempts would be made to settle grievances.
It is anticipated that the PRA process in land acquisition would avoid, or at least minimize
complaints arising from the loss of land and resources as a result of implementing any
subproject. However, should any complaint still arise, it addressed as follows:
*  The Community or Farmer Group Subproject Committee would discuss the matter as the
case may be.
*  The outcome would be reported to the Village Government for records, if it is resolved or
for further action if it were not resolved at the Subproject Committee level.
If the Village Council cannot settle the complaint, a special Village Assembly should be
convened to make a final decision on the fate of the subproject. Individual and household
compensation will be made in cash, in kind, and/or through assistance. The type of compensation
will be an individual choice although efforts will be made to encourage in kind compensation if
the loss amounts to more than 20% of the total loss of subsistence assets.
Depending on the nature and significance of grievances; PADEP's redressing mechanisms will
incorporate interrelated approaches, which are based on the following two different legal
institutional structures: -
(a) central/local government legal- institutional structures: i.e. fully utilizing existing laid
down legal institutional mechanisms e.g. the following: -
* Local government acts and organizational structure
*  District council organizational structures i.e. including their laid down committees
*  Ward/ Village council organizational structures i.e. again including their laid
down committees
(b) PADEP institutional structure as stipulated Chapter 3 of the project Operational Manual:
namely the following: -
Community- level: village as a whole or farmer group levels which will implement PADEP
subprojects through Subproject Committees (SC) duly elected by village Community Assemblies
and Farmer Group Assembles.
Aggrieved parties can air grievances either through central/ local government organs i.e. through
village on to wards, divisions, districts and up to central government organic or strictly througl
PADEP's institutional structure i.e. starting through farmers groups on to village/ community
level, and their forward to District Project Officer, District Facilitation Team, District Executive
Director, National Technical Steering Committee, ever as far as National Project Steering
Committee.
26



WORLDBANKIGOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
K. A DESCRIPTION OF MECHANISMS FOR CONSULTATIONS WITH, AND
PARTICIPATION OF, DISPLACED PERSONS IN PLANNING, IMPLEMENTATION
AND MONITORING.
Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potential displaced
persons the opportunity to contribute to both the design and implementation of the sub projects.
This fits perfectly with the demand driven nature of the PADEP project. The sub projects would
be initiated, planned, designed, implemented and operated (i.e. demand driven) by communities
and/or farmer groups who by their very nature are members of the rural community and
therefore, are an integral part of and play a crucial role in the community that may be effected.
Furthermore, it is the local communities who are to claim ownership of this project for it to be
successful and their wealth of knowledge of local conditions are invaluable assets to the project.
In recognition of this, particular attention would be paid to public consultation with potentially
affected individuals/households when resettlement concerns are involved.
Public consultation has taken place at the identification of the sub projects during the PRA
process and EA. The participation strategy would evolve around the provision of a full
opportunity for involvement. This process would not be an isolated one because of the very
nature of the project, which through its implementation and design ensures continuous public
participation and involvement at the local level. Therefore, as a matter of strategy, public
consultation would be an on-going activity taking place through out the entire project cycle. For
example, public consultation would also occur during the preparation of the; (i) the socio-
economic study, (ii) the resettlement plan and (ii) the environmental assessment and (iv) during
the drafting and reading of the compensation contract.
Public participation and consultation would take place through meetings, radio programmes,
request for written proposals/comments, filling in of questionnaires/forms, public readings and
explanations of sub project ideas and requirements, making public documents available at the
regional, district, canton and village levels at suitable locations like the official residences/offices
of local leaders/elders. These measures would take into account the low literacy levels prevalent
in these communities by allowing enough time for responses and feedback.
Notwithstanding, the best guarantor for public interest is the communities and farmer groups
who are responsible members of their local communities and are very likely to be knowledgeable
about the likely impact of the project.
Monitoring of this process would be through the overall monitoring and evaluation mechanism
of the entire PADEP project.
27



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                 RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
L. ARRANGEMENTS FOR MONITORING BY THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY AND,
IF REQUIRED, BY INDEPENDENT MONITORS.
The arrangements for monitoring would fit the overall monitoring plan of the entire PADEP
project which would be through the PCU and decentralized to the DMT and DFT which is
expected to have monitoring and evaluation guides established and functional by end of year one
in the project cycle.
The objective will be to make a final evaluation in order to determine if the people who were
affected by the project have been affected in such a way that they are now living at a higher
standard than before, living at the same standard as before, or they are they are actually
poorer than before. For sub-projects triggering the resettlement safeguard, indicators tracking
the households affected by the acquisition of land will be assessed in comparison to those of
households not affected. The resettlement plans will indicate parameters to be monitored,
institute monitoring milestones and provide resources necessary to carry out the monitoring
activities.
In order to access whether these goals are met, the resettlement plans will indicate parameters to
be monitored, institute monitoring milestones and provide resources necessary to carry out the
monitoring activities.
For example the following parameters and verifiable indicators will be used to measure the
resettlement plans performance;
*  Questionnaire data will be entered into a database for comparative analysis at the DMT
and PCU levels,
*  Each individual will have a compensation dossier recording his or her initial situation, all
subsequent sub project use of assets/improvements, and compensation agreed upon and
received.
*  The project will maintain a complete database on every individual impacted by the
project land use requirements including relocation/resettlement, land impacts or damages
*  Percentage of individuals selecting cash or a combination of cash and in-kind
compensation,
*  Proposed use of payments
*  The number of contention cases out of the total cases
*  The number of grievances and time and quality of resolution
*  Ability of individuals and families to re-establish land and crops or other alternative
incomes
*  Agricultural productivity of new lands
*  Number of impacted locals in the workforce
*  Seasonal or inter annual fluctuation on key foodstuffs
*  General relations in the local communities
28



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
The following indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the implementation of
resettlements plans;
VERIFIABLE INDICATORS
Monitoring                            Evaluation
Outstanding compensation or resettlement  Outstanding individual compensation or
contracts not completed before next   resettlement contracts.
agricultural season.
Communities unable to set village-level  Outstanding village compensation
compensation after two years.         contracts.
Grievances recognized as legitimate out of  All legitimate grievances rectified
all complaints lodged.
Pre-sub project production and income  Affected individuals and/or households
(year before land used) versus present
pyerodton land incom  f  preset ,     compensated or resettled in first year that
production and income of resettlers, off-  have maintained their previous standard of
farm-income trainees, and users of    living at final evaluation.
improved agricultural techniques.
Pre- subproject production versus present  Equal or improved production per
production (crop for crop, land/land for  household.
land/land).
Financial records will be maintained by the DMT/PCU to enable calculation of the final cost of
resettlement per individual or household. Each individual receiving compensation will have a
dossier containing;
* Individual bio-data information,
* Number of people s/he claims as household dependents
* Amount of land available to the individual or household when the dossier is opened.
Additional information will be acquired for individuals eligible for resettlement/compensation:
* Level of income and of production
* Inventory of material assets and improvements in land, and
. Debts.
Each time land is used by the project; the dossier will be updated to determine if the individual or
household is being affected to the point of economic non-viability and eligibility for
compensation/resettlement or its alternatives. These dossiers will provide the foundation for
monitoring and evaluation, as well as documentation of compensation agreed to, received, and
signed for.
29



WORLDBANK/GOVERNMENT OF Tanzania                RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
PADEP
It is normal that some compensation procedures and rates may require revision at some time
during the project cycle. PCU and DMT will implement changes through the Change
Management Process in the Monitoring and Evaluation manuals of the project, which will
require feed back from:
* Indicators monitored by the DMT to determine whether goals are being met, and
a grievance procedure for the local community to express dissatisfaction about implementation
of compensation and resettlement.
30



