1
ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorld Frec ol Poverty
"r'fmShop
lte Wil Hank
Report No: AC45
lintegratedl Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/28/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Pro ject Data
Country: TANZANIA                               Project ID: P067103
Project: Participatory Agricultural Development and  Task Team Leader: Ladisy Komba Chengula
Empowerment Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 11, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 27, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 56.58
Managing Unit: AFTRI                             Sector: General agriculture; fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  sector (70%); Sub-national government
Status: Lending                                 administration (30%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other
rural development (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project seeks to raise the production of food, incomes, and assets of participating
households and groups in about 840 villages in a sustainable manner through the implementation of small
agricultural development sub-projects planned and managed by community members and farmers groups.
This objective will be achieved by: (i) empowering self-selected rural communities and farmers' groups
to make decisions regarding choice of sustainable and remunerative productive technology; (ii) sharing
of costs by the public sector and participants, and hence sharing the risk of adoption of improved
technologies, again for self-selected participants; (iii) enhancing demand for products and services
provided by the private sector in rural areas by increasing the purchasing power of participating groups
and encouraging the growth of savings; (iv) promoting improved land and crop husbandry practices by
participants; (v) supporting the ongoing decentralization process at the district level; and (vi) partially
financing maintenance and/or construction of roads, bridges, and other small sub-projects to improve
access to markets.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project has two components: (i) Community Agricultural Development Sub-projects; and
(ii) Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening. The total project cost is estimated to be US$
69.99 million equivalent, of which IDA will finance US$ 56.58 million, beneficiaries will contribute US$
11.82 million, and Government (national and district councils) will provide US$ 1.59 million.
The project comprises of the Agricultural Development Subprojects, benefiting either the
community at large, of a village (Community Subprojects) or a group of farmers in a village (Farmer



2
ISDS
Group Subprojects) and complimentary Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Program at the
district and community and national level. The subprojects will cover all aspects of community
development initiatives such as identification, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation using
participatory approaches. The Capacity Building Program at the local level will cover identification,
preparation and implementation of a capacity building program to support the community initiatives. The
Capacity Building Program at the national level will cover aspects of Policy Planning and Regulatory
Mechanism, Technology Linkages and Capacity for Project Implementation.
Component 1: Community A2ricultural Development Sub-projects
This project component will consist of (a) Community Investment Sub-projects (CIS); and (b)
Farmer Group Investment Sub-projects (FGIS). The aim of this component is to empower rural
communities and farmer groups to make decisions to improve their economic well-being and to act on
them. Communities and organizecl farmers' groups will have the primary responsibility for using
participatory approaches in implementing small-scale investment activities supported by the project,
including identification and planning of subprojects, implementation of technical recommendations, local
procurement of inputs, contracting of service providers and monitoring and evaluation. The project will
build capacity of local authorities, communities and farmers' groups by conducting tailor-made basic
training in participatory methodologies (PRA), sub-project cycle, basic financial and procurement skills,
participatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E), environmental and social assessments, and HIV/AIDS
awareness and prevention.
A community is defined as a single village, or a significant portion thereof, with a common
investment interest. Thus a community sub-project will be any investment, that draws public interest and
brings common benefits. A "Farmer Group" is defined as a small group (10 - 40 households) of the same
village in which members have voluntarily agreed, with endorsement of their Village Council, to engage
in an investment sub-project that introduces technological innovation. Possible sub-projects include:
soil fertility and better land management (watershed management for soil and water conservation,
restoration of soil fertility using rock phosphate, conservation and no tillage techniques, and fuel
efficiency technologies - biogas); agricultural investments and technologies (integrated plant nutrition
strategy (IPNS), integrated pest management (IPM), rainwater harvesting, improvement of traditional
schemes, production of non-traditional crops and improved livestock); and input-output marketing
(production of organic fertilizers, primary processing of crop and livestock products, contract farming
etc.). Criteria for approval of sub-projects will include gender balance, sustainability and empowerment
of rural communities.
In order to share risks involved in adopting new improved technologies, efforts of communities
and farmers' groups will be complemented with direct transfers of financial resources to them (through
local governments) on a matching-grant basis. This will allow them to shop and compare prices among
several suppliers of goods and services needed to implement their sub-projects. Mechanisms for
community-driven development will be introduced in a phased manner, to allow for improvements in the
course of project implementation.
Before implementing the sub-projects, each Village Council or farmer group will undergo a
participatory planning process to identify opportunities key challenges and practical ways to overcome
them. The sub-projects thus derived will then be costed and the implied share of the cost to the
beneficiaries made clear., If the beneficiaries wish to undertake the project, it will be submitted for
approval to the District Management Team (DMT) of the District Authority. With each participating
community or farmers group, the cycle of sub-projects will unfold over three years. The initial year will
be devoted mainly to capacity building PRA, identification and preparation of the subprojects. The



3
ISDS
initial year will be devoted a village mainly to capacity building, PRA, and identification and preparation
of the sub-projects. The second and third years will be devoted to implementation.
For CIS, beneficiaries will contribute (labor, materials or in cash) at least 17% of total
sub-project costs, excluding technical assistance and training and the project will contribute the
difference up to a maximum of US$ 30,000 equivalent per village. Additionally the project will
contribute 100% of the cost of technical assistance and training up to a maximum of US$ 5,000
equivalent. For FGIS, the project will contribute in cash 50% of the cost of consumable inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, and plant protection chemicals) up to US$ 25 equivalent per household per.year for a
maximum of 2 years or 80% of costs of technological innovations other than agricultural input and up to
US$ 8,000 per village. In addition, the project will contribute 100% of the cost of technical assistance
and training up to a maximum of US$ 3,000 equivalent. The total project contribution for CIS and FGIS
subprojects per village will be US$ 46,000 equivalent. Farmers participating in the group investment
sub-projects will be required to have a savings account and deposit at least 50% of the cost of
consumable inputs to be purchased prior to receiving the matching contribution grant. At the end of the
season they will be required again to deposit at least 50% of the value of inputs needed for the following
season in order to qualify for another matching grant from the project. In this way farmers are expected
to build savings habits required to purchase inputs for the following seasons and will be encouraged to
build up relationship with financial institutions and input dealers.
Component 2: Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening
This component enhances the institutional and human capacity to ensure that the subprojects
chosen are adequately considered in key dimensions, including environmental, economic, financial and
social, and implemented with acceptable quality.
In all participating districts the project will support training to upgrade capacities in participatory
planning methodologies, project irnplementation, monitoring and evaluation, financial and procurement
management skills, environmental and social assessments, and public-private partnership in service
delivery. Staff of the district councils will also undergo training to enable them guide communities and
farmers' groups as needed. Technical assistance will be provided in the preparation of District
Agricultural Development Plans (DADPs), which are integral part of the overall District Development
Plans (DDPs). Under this component conditional block grants to the districts will be in cash in the
amount of US$ 175,000 equivalent for three years. The District Councils will contribute 10% of the
grant (US$ 17,500 equivalent). Planning for the use of these funds will be the responsibility of the
District Councils through the DMTs.
Support of the project at national level will include funding for capacity building in key entities
and for project preparation, management and implementation and additional analytical work to underpin
ongoing reforms. The capacities of national institutions responsible for policy analysis, regulatory
functions, and project preparation, management and implementation such as planning, monitoring and
evaluation, and financial management will be strengthened through training, technical assistance and
provision of required equipment. The project will also finance various policy studies aiming at
reviewing, harmonizing and rationalizing agricultural taxes, levies and fees on crop and livestock
sub-sectors. Other studies to be supported will cover surveys of sectoral performance and beneficiary
assessments. The project will support further development and updating of the agricultural sector
monitoring and evaluation system, and improvement of its management information system (MIS). In
addition, the project will support the implementation of the Seed Act (1973) and the Plant Breeders Right
Act (2002), which provide the regulatory framework for seed industry, including the establishment of



4
ISDS
Seed Executive Agency. The project will carry out the rehabilitation of four strategically located soil
testing laboratories, provide the required laboratory chemicals and equipment, including soil-testing kits
for on-site soil diagnosis. Finally, the project will finance the national coordination and facilitation unit
operating costs.
Zanzibar Component
The Zanzibar islands (Unguja and Pemba) will during the first year of the project undertake the
Capacity Building Program, and begin the detailed preparation of its Agricultural Development Plans for
implementation in the second year of the project. It will be a condition of disbursement that the
Agricultural Development Plans and the Capacity Building Programs are prepared and cleared by the
Bank. The overall institutional and implementation arrangements have been prepared and appraised.
Grant allocation for the districts in Zanzibar for the Agricultural Development Subprojects have been
estimated at an equivalent of US$ 2.8 million and for the Capacity Building Program at US$ 0.7 million.
The grant ceiling for each subproject will not exceed the ceiling for the mainland districts. The funds
allocated for capacity building will cover requirements at the level of the districts and at MANREC. A
detailed Project Operational Manual (POM), including Guidelines for the Preparation and
Implementation of the Subprojects, a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Annual Work Program
and Budget (AWP&B) for the first year of the project (FY 2004) have been prepared by the Government
of Zanzibar. These documents,have been reviewed and steps to finalize them have been agreed at
appraisal. The adoption of the POM and the PIP and the AWP&B for FY 2004 by the Zanzibar Project
Steering Committee will be a condition of disbursement against the Zanzibar component.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will target an estimated 500,000 smallholder farmers in about 840 villages, including
Zanzibar over a five year project period. It will cover 26 districts in the main land and the islands of
Unguja and Pemba in Zanzibar (equivalent to 2 mainland districts). The target number of villages in
each district will be 30 in the mainland. In Zanzibar, a total of 60 villages, spread over 27 Shehias (Group
of villages for community administrative purposes, with each Shehia consisting of 2 - 3 villages), will be
covered. The project implementation in each participating district in the main land will be spread over
three years with the first year earmarked for capacity building, subprojects preparation and for project
implementation in at least 2 villages. The districts will be brought into the program in a phased manner.
Of the mainland districts, 8 will enter the program in the first year, followed by another 8 in year 2, and
10 in year 3. In Zanzibar, the investment in subprojects will begin during the second year and will be
completed by the end of the fifth year.
The project will contribute to the Government of Tanzania's povety reduction efforts by assisting
the rural poor to increase their incomes. About 70% of the grants will finance community subprojects,
which are implemented by a large portion of the village, and matching contribution is primarily in kind.
The project is also gender-sensitive, with women comprising at least 40% of membership in subprojects,
and women only farmer groups subprojects are allowed. Further, at least two signatories of subproject
accounts shall be women. In terms of subproject leadership, either the chair or the secretary of any
subproject shall be a woman.
B. Check Environmental Classifiuation: B (Partial Assessment)



5
ISDS
Comments.
The project has been classified B because community investment subprojects may involve the use of
fertilizers and other agrochemicals, minor civil works, small-sccale irrigation subprojects and may lead to
change of land ownership or access of land resources. Accordingly, the project has been classified as S2.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/B1'/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                              0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                         0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4. 12)                        * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)           * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                   0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the partlies' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
This project is classified as category B for environmental purposes, which calls for partial
assessment. The project does not present major environmental or social issues, and is likely to have a
positive environmental and social impact. Environmental and social management will be an important
contributor to success of the community subprojects under Component 1. Therefore, PADEP will ensure
that the World Bank environmental and social safeguard polices are adhered to. The safeguard policies
that are triggered by the proposed PADEP project are: OP/BP 4.0] Environmental Assessment, OP 4 09
Pest Management, OP 4 12 Involuntary Resettlement, OP 4.36 Forests and OP 7.50 Projects on
International Waterways. Since the subprojects to be supported by PADEP are small and because rural
people will be the drivers of the subprojects, the process of environmental and social screening has been
made simple and informative.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No major impacts expected.
TT.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No major impacts expected.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)



6
ISDS
Not applicable
I.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) have been prepared and disclosed in Tanzania mainland, to address the safeguard
issues noted above. Subproject-specific Pest Management Plans (PMP) based on Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) will be prepared as part of Environmental and Social Management Framework to be
implemented under the respective subproject. In addition, relevant riparians have been notified of the
potential small scale irrigation subprojects on international waters. The project will not finance
subprojects which will involve significant conversion or degradation of natural forests or related critical
habitats.
Due to the Borrowers late request to include a Zanzibar component and ESMF and RPF have not
been prepared and disclosed for this component. Actions needed to prepare and disclose Safeguard
documents in Zanzibar will be discussed during credit negotiations. Disclosure of Safeguard documents
will be a condition of disbursement for the Zanzibar component.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders have been involved throughout the process of project design, and consultation
has been extensive. Consultation is built into the subproject cycle through the emphasis on PRA and
participatory monitoring and evaluation. The NGOs and Civil Society led by the Economic and Social
Research Foundation (ESRF) and Tanzania Development Research Group (TADREG) conducted a
comprehensive review of the project and held a workshop to discuss the findings and forwarded their
recommendations to PADEP/MAFS. The workshop was attended by people from academia, NGOs,
CBOs, the private sector, farmers' organizations, government and donor agencies. The safeguard
documents were disclosed at a press conference, in national newspapers of wide circulation and are
available on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS) website.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                1/31/2003     2/28/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          3/31/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                            2/25/2003      3/31/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)



7
ISDS
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                1/31/2003     3/26/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            2/15/2003     3/31/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             2/25/2003     3/31/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               7/31/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            12/15/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             12/19/2003
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of ihe above documents is not expected, please explain why
Signed and submitted by       Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Ladisy Komba Chengula                       04/21/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Dan Aronson                           04/21/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator' Charlotte S. Bingham                    04/21/03
Sector Manager/Director:      Karen Mcconnell Brooks                     04/21/03
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH          FEECOACK     Si|EMA      1  SHOWCASE



