Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3770 TA 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Participatory Agricultural Development and Empowerment Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3770 TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2003, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
April 25, 2003, describing a program designed to raise food production in a sustainable 
manner and improve rural incomes and assets of targeted households and groups through 
the implementation of small community-based agricultural activities (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
 (B) 
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” (the General Conditions) of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(a) 
“Agricultural Sector Lead Ministries (ASLM)” means the Borrower’s  
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS), Ministry of Cooperatives and 
Marketing, President’s Office – Regional Administration and Local Government (PO-
RALG) and Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD); 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a Farmer Group (as hereinafter defined) or 
Community (as hereinafter defined) which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the  
Project Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) / Zanzibar Project Operational 
Manual (as hereinafter defined) and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive, a Farmer Group Investment Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) or a Community Investment Grant (as hereinafter defined), and 
“Beneficiaries” shall mean all such Beneficiaries collectively; 
(c) 
“Community” means a single village, or a significant portion thereof, 
with a common investment interest; 
(d) 
“Community Investment (CI) Grant” means a grant made or proposed to 
be made by a District Council (as hereinafter defined) to a Beneficiary for the purpose of 
financing a CI Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(e) 
“CI Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between a 
District Council / MANREC and a Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions 
under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to the Beneficiary for the 
purpose of financing CI Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.2 of the 
Project; 
(f) 
“CI Subproject” means an activity  proposed by a Beneficiary under 
Part A.2  of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
(g) 
“District” means an administrative area of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to Section 6 of the Borrower’s Regions and Districts (Establishment Procedure) 
Act 1994, Act No. 12 of 1994, representing a designated area and population within the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(h) 
“District Agricultural Development Plan (DADP)” means a plan based 
on broad agricultural sector strategies and comprising a framework for implementation 
thereof, to achieve sectoral objectives and targets at District level; 
(i) 
“District Council” means a legal entity of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to Section 5 of the Borrower’s Local Government (District Authorities) Act 
1982, Act No. 7 of 1982, to exercise jurisdiction over a District; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(j) 
“DED” means District Executive Director; 
(k) 
“District Facilitation Team (DFT)” means the unit established by the 
DED, comprising District technical staff and representatives from the private sector and 
NGOs, which will act as a technical working group under the DED; 
(l) 
“District Management Team (DMT)” means the unit existing within the 
District Council, chaired by the DED and comprising Heads of District Departments, 
which will be responsible for the approval of Subprojects and the aggregation of 
approved Subprojects into the DADP and for the implementation of Part B of the Project; 
(m) 
“Environmental and Social Framework (ESF)” means the framework 
dated March 31, 2003, satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the 
mitigation of the potential environmental and social impact of the Project, as the same 
may be updated from time to time with the approval of the Association, to be adopted by 
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and to be used as the basis for preparation of Environmental and Social 
Management Plans (as hereinafter defined); 
(n) 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)” means the 
Subproject-specific plan, satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the 
mitigation of the potential environmental and social impact of the Subproject, as the same 
may be updated from time to time with the approval of the Association, to be prepared on 
the basis of the ESF / ZESF (as hereinafter defined); 
(o) 
“Farmer Group” means a small group (10-40 households) of the same 
village in which members have voluntarily agreed, with the endorsement of their Village 
Council (as hereinafter defined), to engage in an FGI Subproject; 
(p) 
“Farmer Group Investment (FGI) Grant” means a grant made or 
proposed to be made by a District Council to a  Beneficiary for the purpose of financing 
an FGI Subproject (as hereinafter defined); 
(q) 
“FGI Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
a
District Council / MANREC and a Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions 
under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to the Beneficiary for the 
purpose of financing FGI Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1 of the 
Project; 
(r) 
“FGI Subproject” means an activity proposed by a Beneficiary under 
Part A.1  of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(s) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” (FMR) means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Fiscal Year (FY)” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which runs from 
July 1 through June 30;  
(u) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations; 
(v) 
“Integrated Pest Management Plan (IPMP)” means the Subproject-
specific plan, satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the management of 
potential risks of pests associated with crop intensification or other activities to be 
implemented under the Subproject, as the same may be updated from time to time with 
the approval of the Association; 
(w) 
“MAFS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food 
Security; 
(x) 
“MANREC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Natural 
Resources, Environment and Cooperatives of Zanzibar; 
(y) 
“National Project Steering Committee (NPSC)” means the policy-
making body established in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2
 
of
Schedule 4 
to this Agreement for the purposes of overall oversight of the Project; 
(z) 
“Participating District” means a District of the Borrower, selected in 
accordance with criteria  satisfactory to the Association as set forth in the POM (as 
hereinafter defined) / ZPOM (as hereinafter defined), to which proceeds of the Credit are 
made or proposed to be made available under a Project Implementation Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(aa) 
“Project Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;  
(bb) 
“Project Coordination Unit (PCU)” means the unit established within the 
MAFS in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
for the purposes of coordination of the Agricultural Sector Lead Ministries and 
monitoring of the Project; 
(cc) 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means an agreement between the 
MAFS / MANREC and a Participating District, setting forth the terms and conditions 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
under which proceeds of the Credit shall be made available to the District for the purpose 
of financing activities under Part B of the Project; 
(dd) 
“Project Implementation Plan (PIP)” means the plan referred to in 
Paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and comprising the policies, procedures and 
guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project 
on the Mainland; 
(ee) 
“Project Operational Manual (POM)” means the manual setting out the 
policies, procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the 
operation of the Project on the Mainland and comprising: (i) the PIP; (ii) a financial 
management manual; (iii) a Project procurement plan; (iv) standard formats for FGI and 
CI Grant Agreements and Project Implementation Agreements; (v) ESF and RPF (as 
hereinafter defined) documents; (vi) Guidelines to the Preparation and Implementation of 
Agricultural Development Subprojects; and (vii) such other administrative, financial, 
technical and organizational arrangements as shall be required for the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Association, and such 
term includes any schedules thereto; 
(ff) 
“Project Preparation Advances” means the two project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to: (i) the letter agreement 
signed on behalf of the Association on September 10, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower 
on September 26, 2001; and (ii) the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association 
on March 5, 2003 and on behalf of the Borrower on March 8, 2003;  
(gg) 
“Project Technical Committee (PTC)” means the body established in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2
 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the 
purposes of provision of technical and advisory services to the Project; 
(hh) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)” means the framework dated 
March 31, 2003, agreed with the Association for the resettlement and compensation of 
persons affected by potential changes in land use associated with activities to be 
implemented under the Project; 
(ii) “
Sheha
”
means the person appointed pursuant to Section 15 of the 
Borrower’s Zanzibar Regional Administration Authority Act No. 1 of 1998 to administer 
a
Shehia
 (as hereinafter defined); 
(jj) “
Shehia
”
means a legal entity of the Borrower, established pursuant to 
Section 14 of the Borrower’s Zanzibar Regional Administration Authority Act No. 1 of 
 1998, representing a designated area and population in Zanzibar; 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(kk) 
“
Shehia
 Advisory Council” means a legal entity of the Borrower, 
established pursuant to Section 18 of the Borrower’s Zanzibar Regional Administration 
Authority Act No. 1 of 1998, to advise the 
Sheha
 in matters related to the maintenance of 
law and order in the 
Shehia
 and other matters which are beneficial to the well-being of 
the 
Shehia
;
(ll) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(mm)  “SUA” means the Sokoine University of Agriculture, established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s University of Agriculture Act No. 6 of 1984; 
(nn) 
“Subproject” means an activity proposed by a Beneficiary under Part A  
of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
(oo) 
“Village” means an administrative area of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Local Government (District Authorities) Act 1982, Act No. 7 
of 1982, representing a designated area and population within the territory of the 
Borrower; 
(pp) 
“Village Council” means a legal entity of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to Section 25 of the Borrower’s Local Government (District Authorities) Act 
1982, Act No. 7 of 1982, comprising members of a village and charged with the 
endorsement of Subprojects proposed by Beneficiaries;  
(qq) 
“Zanzibar Environmental and Social Framework (ZESF)” means the 
framework, satisfactory to the Association, describing measures for the mitigation of the 
potential environmental and social impact of the Project in Zanzibar, as the same may be 
updated from time to time with the approval of the Association, to be adopted by the 
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3 (e) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and to be used as the basis for preparation of ESMPs; 
(rr) 
“Zanzibar Project Coordination Unit (ZPCU)” means the unit established 
within the MANREC in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2
 
of
Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement for the purposes of coordination and monitoring of Project activities in 
Zanzibar;  
(ss) 
“Zanzibar Project Implementation Plan (ZPIP)” means the plan referred 
to in Paragraph 3 (c) (i) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and comprising the policies, 
procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Project in Zanzibar; 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
(tt) 
“Zanzibar Project Operational Manual (ZPOM)” means the manual 
setting out the policies, procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the 
Borrower in the operation of the Project in Zanzibar and comprising: (i) the ZPIP; (ii) a 
financial management manual; (iii) a Project procurement plan; (iv) standard formats for 
FGI and CI Grant Agreements and Project Implementation Agreements; (v) ZESF and 
ZRPF (as hereinafter defined) documents; (vi) Guidelines to the Preparation and 
Implementation of Agricultural Development Subprojects; and (vii) such other 
administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements as shall be required 
for the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules thereto; 
(uu) 
“Zanzibar Project Steering Committee (ZPSC)” means the body 
established in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2
 
of
Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement for the purposes of overall oversight of Project activities in Zanzibar; 
(vv) 
“Zanzibar Project Technical Committee (ZPTC)” means the body 
established in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2
 
of
Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement for the purposes of provision of technical and advisory services to the Project 
in Zanzibar; and 
(ww) “Zanzibar Resettlement Policy Framework (ZRPF)” means the 
framework agreed with the Association for the resettlement and compensation of persons 
affected by potential changes in land use associated with activities to be implemented 
under the Project in Zanzibar, to be adopted by the Borrower in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraph 3 (c) (v) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 41,500,000).
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals for an FGI or CI 
Grant for the benefit of a Beneficiary or grants to District Councils, to meet the 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Subprojects to be financed 
under Parts A and B.1 of the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two separate special deposit accounts (Special Account A for activities on the 
Mainland and Special Account B for activities in Zanzibar) in commercial banks on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to Paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to Paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2013, and ending May 15, 2043.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2023, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
Paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in Paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this Paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in Paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to Paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
Paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, social and agricultural practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement  of 
the Project’s objectives and afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on the said plan. 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall for purposes of making the counterpart contribution to the financing of 
the Project: 
 
(a) 
 
open and thereafter maintain in Tanzanian Shillings 
(TSh), until 
completion of the Project,  two separate project accounts (Project Account A for activities 
on the Mainland and Project Account B for activities in Zanzibar) in commercial banks 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
at quarterly intervals, replenish the Project Accounts by amounts 
required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project as 
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and  
 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Accounts in accordance 
with Paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
Paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
Paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Associat
ion’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in Paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 of  this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has established 
management information and financial management systems, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, to ensure proper execution and monitoring of Project 
activities. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
14
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 9111 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
TANZANIA 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
TREASURY 
 41329 
  (255-22) 
211-7790 
 
Dar es Salaam 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By /s/ Gray S. Mgonja 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Judy M. O’Connor 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Credit 
% of 
 
(Allocated Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Grants: 
 
100% of amounts  
 
disbursed 
 
(a) Mainland 
 
Part A 
26,305,000 
Part B.1 
3,340,000 
 
(b) Zanzibar 
 
Part A 
2,050,000 
Part B.1 
513,000 
 
(2) 
Goods: 
1,500,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures  
 
(3) 
Works: 
207,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ 772,000 
93% 
 services, 
 
 
 
 including 
audits: 
 
(5) Training: 
3,020,000 
100% 
 
(6) Incremental 
operating 
costs: 
2,511,000 
90% 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
Amount of the Credit 
% of 
 
(Allocated Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(7) 
Refund of 
766,000 
Amount due pursuant to  
 
Project Preparation 
 
Section 2.02(c) of this 
 Advances: 
 
Agreement 
 
(8) Unallocated: 
516,000
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
41,500,000 
 
========  
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
“Incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred 
on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
space rental and utilities, office supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle 
operation, maintenance and insurance, building and equipment maintenance costs, travel 
and supervision costs, and salaries of supporting staff, but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Borrower’s civil service.
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) payments under Category (1) until and unless the FGI / CI Grant or the 
grant to the District Council has been made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Paragraph 21 of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement and in more detail in the PIP / ZPIP and the POM / ZPOM; and (c) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (b) until and unless the Association 
has received evidence satisfactory to the Association that: 
(ii) 
the ZPIP and the ZPOM, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, have been prepared, adopted and disclosed in 
Zanzibar; 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
(ii) 
the ZPCU, in form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association, has been established and a Project Coordinator, 
Finance Manager, Procurement Specialist and Community 
Agricultural Development Officer with experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association have been 
appointed thereto; 
(iii) 
the ZPSC and the ZPTC, in form and with functions satisfactory 
to the Association, have been established in accordance with the 
ZPIP and the ZPOM; 
(iv) 
management information and financial management systems, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, to ensure 
proper execution and monitoring of Project activities have been 
established in Zanzibar; 
(v) 
the ZESF and the ZRPF, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, have been prepared, adopted and disclosed in 
Zanzibar; and 
(vi) 
the ZPSC has adopted a capacity building program for Fiscal 
Year 2003 / 04 and agricultural development Subprojects for 
Fiscal Year 2004 / 05. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) grants, (b) goods not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (c) works not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, 
(d) consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (e) individual consultants not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, (f) training, and (g) incremental operating costs, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to raise food production in a sustainable manner 
and improve rural incomes and assets of targeted households and groups through the 
implementation of small community-based agricultural activities, both on the Mainland 
and in Zanzibar. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Agricultural Development Subprojects
1. 
Farmer Group Investment Subprojects (FGIS)
Provision of grants to Beneficiaries for: (i) the acquisition of agricultural inputs, 
including seeds, fertilizers, agrochemicals and inputs for livestock production; (ii) 
technological innovations such as small farming implements; and (iii) technical 
assistance and training associated with (i) and (ii). 
2. Community 
Investment 
Subprojects 
(CIS)
Provision of grants to Beneficiaries for: (i) agricultural development activities, 
including watershed management for soil and water conservation, restoration of soil 
fertility using rock phosphate, integrated nutrition strategies, integrated pest management 
techniques, improvement of traditional irrigation schemes, strengthening of rural input-
output marketing and livestock management; and (ii) associated technical assistance and 
training.  
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. 
District Level Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
Provision of grants to District Councils for District capacity building activities to 
support planning and implementation of FGIS and CIS, including: 
(a) 
training of District Facilitation Teams (DFTs) formed by Participating 
Districts for the Project  to impart skills in participatory preparation and appraisal of 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
Subprojects, establishment of public-private sector partnerships, basic financial 
management and project write-up skills, procurement skills, environmental and social 
impact assessment skills, farmer-research-extension-market linkages and  basic computer 
skills; 
(b) 
development and institutionalization of DADPs based on broad 
agricultural sector strategies and the framework for implementation to achieve sectoral 
objectives and targets at District level; and 
(c) 
strengthening capacity of private sector engaged in marketing 
agricultural inputs, services and produce at village and District levels.  
2. 
National Level Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
(a) 
Provision of support for national capacity building activities, including: 
(i) 
strengthening the capacity of ASLM staff in participatory 
approaches, financial management, procurement, information 
technology, and environmental and social impact assessment, as 
well as imparting negotiation, dialogue and networking skills, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training; 
and 
(ii) 
carrying out of various studies, including beneficiary 
assessments and socio-economic surveys, through the provision 
of technical advisory services. 
(b) 
Improvement of the policy and regulatory framework for enhanced 
private sector participation in the marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and equipment, including; 
(i) 
preparation of a seed sub-sector vision and strategy; 
 
(ii) 
carrying out of an analytical review and stakeholder 
consultations for the development of a competitive fertilizer 
market; 
(iii) 
carrying out of reviews supporting the implementation of the 
Borrower’s Plant Protection Act and regulations on veterinary 
drugs; 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
(iv) 
carrying out of studies aimed at reviewing, harmonizing and 
rationalizing agricultural taxes, levies and fees in crop sub-sector 
and for implementation of recommendations arising from these 
studies; and 
(v) 
development of competitive product markets by commissioning 
pilots in private-public partnerships in supply-chain 
management, private agribusiness enterprises, farmer-research-
extension and related public technical services. 
(c) 
Strengthening Technological Linkages, including: 
(i) 
establishment of effective linkages with ongoing projects and  
programs in the agricultural sector; 
(ii) 
strengthening networking and linkages with international 
agricultural organizations in order to continually access new 
technological options for dissemination to participating 
Beneficiaries; 
(iii) 
strengthening linkages between Zonal Agricultural Research 
Centers (ZARCs) and extension services provided by District 
Councils to ensure participation of Beneficiaries in identification 
of ecology-specific research priorities and in testing options 
available; 
(iv) 
rehabilitation and equipping of four strategic soil testing 
laboratories to enable them to respond efficiently to growing 
demands for chemical and physical analyses of soils from 
Beneficiaries; and 
(v) 
acquisition of chemicals and laboratory equipment, including 
soil-testing and veterinary kits, for training purposes and for on-
site diagnosis. 
(d) 
Project Coordination and Management 
(i) 
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to coordinate and 
manage activities under the Project through financing of 
operating costs of PCU, including cost of repair and maintenance 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
of vehicles, office equipment, staff salaries, NPSC and PTC 
meetings, monitoring and evaluation and office expenses; 
(ii) 
coordination of Project activities at Community, District and 
national levels, including field supervision by PCU and DFTs, 
carrying out of Beneficiary-led assessments, collection of 
baseline data, establishment of management information 
systems, carrying out of annual project reviews and a midterm 
review and establishment of an implementation completion 
report; and 
(iii) 
acquisition of vehicles and office equipment for Project 
coordination activities. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and Paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping and Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, or through the IAPSO in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Community Participation in Procurement
Goods and works included in Subprojects and required for the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with Paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and pursuant to procedures 
satisfactory to the Association, as set forth in the POM / ZPOM. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said Paragraph 1. 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to the first two contracts
 
for goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent, each contract for goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent, the first two
 
contracts for works estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent, and each contract for works estimated to cost more than $150,000 equivalent, 
the procedures set forth in Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by Paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), Paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of Paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for consulting firm contracts for financial audits estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for consulting firm contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines; and may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions 
of Paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
Paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates (the qualifications and experience in the case of employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis), terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of Paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by Paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in Paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Oversight and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain during at least the first three years of the 
implementation of the Project the PCU, pending arrangements, determined at midterm 
review, for mainstreaming the functions of the PCU within the ASLM. 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project 
the NPSC, the PTC, the ZPCU, the ZPSC, the ZPTC and DMTs in form and with 
functions satisfactory to the Association, and appoint thereto staff having experience and 
qualifications satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The PCU shall include a Project Coordinator, Operations Officer, Finance 
Manager, Community Agricultural Development Officer, Monitoring and Evaluation 
Officer, Project Analyst, Private Sector Specialist and Procurement Specialist. 
4. 
The NPSC shall be chaired by the Permanent Secretaries of the MAFS and the 
President’s Office – Regional Administration and Local Government and shall comprise 
the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing and the 
Ministry of Water and Livestock Development; the Principal Secretary of MANREC; the 
Program Coordinator of the Agricultural Sector Development Program (ASDP); 
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Prime Minister’s Office, farmer 
associations and the NGO community; and the Project Coordinator as Secretary. 
5. 
The PTC shall be chaired by the Director of Crop Development and shall 
comprise the Director of Research and Development from the MAFS; a representative of 
SUA; four recognized independent authorities in the fields of agricultural research, 
extension, farmer-to-market linkages and agricultural policy; and the Project Coordinator 
as Secretary. 
6. 
The ZPCU shall comprise a Project Coordinator, Finance Manager, Procurement 
Specialist, Community Agricultural Development Officer, Monitoring and Evaluation 
Officer and Planning Officer. 
7. 
The ZPSC shall be chaired by the Principal Secretary of MANREC and shall 
comprise the Principal Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, the 
Ministry of State (President’s Office), Local Government and Special Forces, the 
Ministry of Youth, Employment, Women’s Development and Children, the Ministry of 
Page  30
-
29
-
29
Transport and Communication; the Ministry of Water, Construction, Energy and Land 
and the Ministry of Trade, Industry, Marketing and Tourism; representatives from the 
private sector and NGOs; and the Project Coordinator as Secretary. 
8. 
The ZPTC shall be chaired by the Director of Planning of MANREC and shall 
comprise a Community Development Officer, Agronomist / Soil Fertility Expert, 
Agricultural Economist, Financial Management Specialist, Rural Sociologist, Extension 
Officer, Gender Specialist and Natural Resource Management Specialist. 
9. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the PIP / ZPIP and the POM / 
ZPOM; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the PIP / ZPIP 
and the POM / ZPOM or any provision thereto, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
10. 
The PCU shall supervise and coordinate the overall implementation of the 
Project, including the management of financial resources and monitoring and evaluation, 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the POM. 
11. 
The DMT shall review and approve Subprojects, aggregate approved Subprojects 
into the DADP and implement Part B of the Project on the Mainland. 
12. 
The NPSC shall ensure that Project activities are implemented in a manner 
consistent with the development objective of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the POM. 
13. 
The PTC shall provide advisory services and technical backstopping to the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the POM. 
14. 
The District Councils shall manage Project resources on the Mainland. 
15. 
The MANREC shall review and approve Subprojects in Zanzibar, upon the 
recommendation of the DMTs, and supervise and coordinate the overall implementation 
of Project activities in Zanzibar in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and 
the ZPOM.   
16. 
The ZPSC shall ensure that Project activities in Zanzibar are implemented in a 
manner consistent with the development objective of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the ZPOM. 
Page  31
-
30
-
30
17. 
The ZPTC shall provide advisory services and technical backstopping to Project 
activities in Zanzibar in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the 
ZPOM. 
18. 
The MANREC shall manage Project resources in Zanzibar. 
B. Safeguard 
Policies
19. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the provisions 
of the ESF / ZESF, the Subproject-specific IPMPs and RPFs, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of the aforementioned, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project; and 
(b) 
ensure that resettlement actions plans are prepared, as needed, in 
accordance with the RPFs, and submitted to the Association for its approval, prior to 
implementation of such plans. 
20. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with 
practices applicable to international waterways that are satisfactory to the Association. 
C. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
21. 
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit 
unless the DMT / MANREC shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the POM / ZPOM, that the 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the  POM / ZPOM, 
which shall include the following: 
(a) 
the Subproject shall be for agricultural investment and development, 
including watershed management for soil and water conservation, conservation tillage, 
efficient use of fertilizers, fuel-efficient technology, integrated plant nutrition strategies, 
use of rain harvesting techniques, improvement of traditional irrigation schemes,  
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure and livestock management; 
(b) 
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary duly represented, which 
Subproject shall have been endorsed by the Village Council / 
Shehia
 Advisory Council; 
Page  32
-
31
-
31
(c) 
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable 
in accordance with the standards specified in the PIP / ZPIP and the POM / ZPOM; 
(d) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the proceeds of the 
Credit shall provide no more than 50% of the cost of consumable agricultural inputs for 
an FGI Subproject, up to approximately $25 equivalent per household for two farming 
seasons for a maximum of two years, and / or 80% of costs for technological innovations.  
Beneficiaries shall provide at least 50% of the cost of consumable inputs through deposits 
into their Farmer Group’s bank account; 
(e) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the grant amount for 
FGIS shall not exceed $8,000 equivalent per village, and for capacity building and 
training shall not exceed $3,000 equivalent per village; 
(f) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the proceeds of the 
Credit shall provide a CI Grant in the form of materials, technical assistance and training.  
Beneficiaries shall provide no less than 20% of the total Subproject costs, and the 
proceeds of the Credit shall provide the difference; 
(g) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the grant amount for CIS 
shall not exceed $30,000 equivalent per Subproject, and for capacity building and 
training shall not exceed $5,000 equivalent per Subproject;  
(h) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the grant amount to 
District Councils for capacity building shall not exceed $17,500 equivalent per District 
Council; and 
(i) 
Subprojects shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental and social 
protection. 
22. 
FGI and CI Grant Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:  
(a) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary or District Council to carry out the FGI 
or CI Subproject or capacity building activity in accordance with the POM / ZPOM, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, social and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of said Subproject or activity; 
Page  33
-
32
-
32
(b) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the relevant Grant shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in carrying out the Subproject or activity concerned; 
(c) 
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants included in 
the Subproject or activity, the operations thereof and any relevant records and documents; 
(d) 
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information, as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably request, regarding the administration, operation and 
financial management of the Subproject or activity; and 
(e) 
the right of the Borrower, to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform 
any of its obligations under the FGI or CI Grant Agreement. 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
23. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than April 15 of each year, the annual work plan and budget for each 
subsequent Fiscal Year following FY 2003 / 04, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, with confirmation of availability of the 
Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project for that Fiscal Year. 
Annual Reviews
24. The 
Borrower 
shall:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
 
(b) 
submit to the Association, no later than three (3) months after the close 
of each fiscal year, commencing FY 2003 / 04, an annual report reviewing the progress in 
Project implementation during the previous year, having regard to the  indicators referred 
to in Paragraph (a) of this Section, and taking into consideration Project monitoring 
Page  34
-
33
-
33
reports prepared at Subproject, District and national levels pursuant to the guidelines and 
procedures in the PIP / ZPIP and the POM / ZPOM; and 
(c) 
following the submission of each annual report, act promptly and 
diligently to take any corrective action agreed with the Association to remedy any 
shortcomings identified in Project implementation, in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project. 
Midterm Reviews
25. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, no later than September 30, 2005, 
a
mid-term review to assess the status of Project implementation, as measured against the 
project development indicators referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  Such review 
shall include an assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in the implementation of 
the Project; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) the Subprojects and 
the work plans; and (iv) progress on procurement and disbursements; and make 
adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance, if needed.  Such 
review shall also consider the possibility of the following: (i) expansion of the number of 
Participating Districts; (ii) increase of grant ceiling amounts; and (iii) mainstreaming of 
the functions of the PCU within the ASLM; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, three months before such review, 
a
report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, needed to undertake the 
review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to Paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in 
Paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
 and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  35
-
34
-
34
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 (a) and 2 through 6 
with respect to Special Account A and Category 1 (b) with respect to Special Account B, 
set forth in the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 in respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $500,000 in 
respect of Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts, pursuant to Paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 and $250,000, respectively, until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 7,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
Page  36
-
35
-
35
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
(ii)  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to Paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
Page  37
-
36
-
36
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to Paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(c) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(d) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(e) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to Paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  38
-
37
-
37
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
 
Sector-Related Indicators
1. 
The proportion of the rural population below the poverty line is reduced from 
57% at the baseline of 2001 / 02 Household Budget Survey (HBS) data to 29% by year 
2010; 
2. 
The proportion of food poor is reduced from 27% at the baseline of 2001 / 02 
HBS data to 14% by year 2010; and 
3. 
Project-financed infrastructure and productivity levels are sustained for at least 
five years after the Project’s Closing Date. 
Project Development Outcome / Impact Indicators
1. 
The agricultural productivity of participating households is increased by at least 
10% by year 2008; 
2. 
The rural incomes, assets and liquidity of participating households is increased 
by at least 10% by the end of Project implementation, as compared to control groups and 
pre-Project levels; and 
3. 
At least 75% of Subprojects have implemented their ESMPs. 
 
