Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 181lb-ME
FILE COpy
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 3, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Peso (Mex$)
US$1                    Mex$22.70 1/
Mex$1.0           =     US$0.044
Mex$l million    =      US$44,052
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF                -  Index of Average Cost of Funds to Financieras
CANACINTRA         -  Camara Nacional de la Industria de Transformacion
CENAPRO            -  Centro Nacional de Productividad
CEPSE              -  Centro Empresarial de Perfeccionamiento Socio-Economico, A.C.
CONACYT            -  Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
CONCAMIN           -  Confederacion de Camaras Industriales
FIDEIN             -  Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales
y Centros Comerciales
FIRA               -  Fideicomisos Instituidos con Relacion Agricultura
FOGAIN             -  Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena
FOMIN              -  Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONATUR            -  Fondo Nacional de Turismo
FONEI              -  Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEP              -  Fondo Nacional de Estudios de Preinversion
IMCE               -  Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior
IMIT               -  Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
INFONAVIT          -  Instituto de Fomento Nacional de Vivienda para los Trabajadores
INFOTEC            -  Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica
NAFINSA            -  Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Program            -  Integrated Small and Medium Scale Industry Program
SAHOP              -  Secretaria de Asentamiento Humano y Obras Publicas
SMI                -  Stiall and Medium Scale Industry
1/ The exchange rate was US$1 = Mex$12.5 until August 31, 1976. The peso is now
floating. The exchange rate for US$1 in recent months has been fluctuating
between Mex$22.65 and 22.75.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY IN MEXICO
The Economic and Industrial Setting .. ........... ..            I
Small and Medium Scale Industry                                  2
Industrial Policies              .                               4
Financing SMI ooo...  o..o..                  -o...7
Interest Rates and Inflation       .                             8
Technical Assistance                ........ . ........          9
The New Integrated Program to Support SMI Develop-
ment .10
II.   THE CREDIT AND GUARANTEES SUBPROGRAM
Objectives                ...12
Institutional Background                   .                    12
Organization, Management and Staffing of FOGAIN                 13
FOGAIN's Past Operations             ...                        14
FOGAIN's Past Financial Performance      .                      15
Interest Rates and Onlending Terms              .16
Operational and Financial Projections and Resource
Requirements.. .-.o. ...                                      17
Project Evaluation and Follow-Up                                17
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures                         19
Accounting Procedures and Auditing Arrangements                 20
The Credit Guarantee Scheme                                     20
III.   THE RISK CAPITAL SUBPROGRAM          ....21
Objectives  -      ..   .         .        ...                  21
Role, Management and Organization of FOMIN                      21
FOMIN's Past Operations .. .... ....22
Investment Policies and Procedures of FOMIN                     24
Operational and Financial Projections and
Resource Needs             ..28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mexico between July 24 and August 24, 1977. The mission comprised
Messrs. Cook, Challa and Hutcheson (LCPID) and Mr. Goderez (IDFD).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SUBPROGRAM ..................              29
Objectives   .............     ............................       29
Institutional Background .....       ......................      29
Process of Creating and Operating Industrial
Estates ............      .........................*..         30
Organization and Staffing of FIDEIN and the
Fideicomisos ...................................................  31
Operating and Financial Performance to Date ........              32
Evaluation of the Industrial Estates Development ...             32
Description of the Subprogram ...................     ...         33
Execution Schedule and Cost Estimates ..............             34
Financing Arrangements    .............................          34
Financial Projections .................... ..........            36
Organizational and Other Requirements ..............             36
V. OVERALL PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND THE TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE SUBPROGRAM ..............................             37
The Coordinating Committee and Secretariat .... .....            37
Industrial Extension Agents .....      ...................       39
Cooperation with Specialized Technical Assistance
Institutions .        ....................................     40
Financing of Preinvestment Studies and Technical
Assistance ...       ................  ....................    42
Resource Allocation ...... .................. ...  .......       42
VI.   THE OVERALL PROGRAM AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
The Size of the Program and of the Bank Loan .......             42
Disbursement Mechanism         .............................     44
Description of the Loan Components ..............    ...         45
Channelling of the Bank Loan        .......................      46
Repayment Terms of the Bank Loan ..         .................    47
Free Limits .......     ...................................      47
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing .............             48
Project Benefits and Risks          .........................    49
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......  ......................                  50
ANNEXES
Annex I Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
Annex 2 The ACF Index
Annex 3 Supporting Tables and Charts



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
T-1:   Indicators of Resource Mobilization and Credit Availability from
the Mexican Banking System
T-2:   Analysis of Total Credit Authorizations by FOGAIN during 1967/77
T-3:   Analysis of Fixed Asset Credits (Refacionarios) authorized by FOGAIN
T-4:   Total Approvals, Disbursements and Repayments of FOGAIN's Credits
T-5:   Past and Projected Balance Sheets of FOGAIN
T-6:   Past and Projected Income Statements of FOGAIN
T-7:   Analysis of FOGAIN's Guarantee Operations, 1971-76
T-8:   Summary of FOMIN's Investments, Cumulative up to December 31, 1976
T-9:   Sectoral Distribution of Firms Supervised by FOMIN's Portfolio
Control Department as of December 31, 1976
T-10:   Status of Firms in FOMIN's Portfolio
T-11:   FOMIN's Audited Income Statement for 1976
T-12:   FOMIN's Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1976
T-13:   Equity Contributions needed to Support FOMIN's Expected Level of
Investments, 1978-82
T-14:   FOMIN's Sources and Applications of Funds
T-15:   FOMIN's Projected Income Statements and Balance Sheets
T-16:   Operating Results on the Industrial Estates (As of June 1977)
T-17:   Summary Balance Sheets for FIDEIN and the Fideicomisos Especiales
as of December 31, 1976
T-18:   Execution Schedule of the Industrial Estates Subprogram
T-19:   Capital Cost Estimate of the Industrial Estates Subprogram
T-20:   Cash Flow Projections for Lease and Sale of Factory Buildings
T-21:   Computation of the Foreign Exchange Cost Content of Program Financing
T-22:   Locations of NAFINSA's Regional Offices and FOGAIN's Field
Representatives
CHARTS
C-1:   Organization Chart of FOGAIN
C-2:   Organization Chart of FOMIN
C-3:   Organization Chart of FIDEIN
C-4:   Map of Mexico
Annex 4 Supporting Documents and Data Available in Project File






I - SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY IN MEXICO
The Economic and Industrial Setting
1.01      For two decades up till 1974 Mexico enjoyed sustained high economic
growth with GDP growing by almost 7% annually. For most of this period the
balance of payments was in equilibrium and inflation averaged less than 5%
per year, allowing a stable exchange rate of 12.5 pesos to the US dollar.
Industry was one of the most dynamic sectors of the economy, with manufactur-
ing output growing by 9% p.a. in the 1960s and about 7% p.a. in the early
1970s. By 1974 manufacturing industry accounted for 23% of GDP, gave employ-
ment directly to about 17% of the total labor force, 1/ and supplied 43% of
merchandise exports. This performance has been facilitated by an active
entrepreneurial class, the relatively large and rapidly growing domestic
market, proximity to the high income US market and favorable government
policies.
1.02      In 1974 and 1975 the economy was increasingly affected by rising
domestic inflation, the effects of the oil price rise and the deepening
recession in world trade. The GDP growth rate fell to 4.2% in 1975. Measures
adopted to control inflation, and reduce balance of payments and fiscal defi-
cits led to a further slowdown of GDP growth to 2.0% in 1976. Although the
trade balance improved somewhat in 1976, continuing high inflation (averaging
16.5% in 1975 and 22% in 1976) forced the abandonment of the fixed parity in
September 1976, since when the floating peso has decreased in value by approxi-
mately 45% in US dollar terms. Growth in manufacturing output declined to
4.7% in 1975 and 2.6% in 1976 as industry was increasingly affected by the
slow growth of the domestic market, the growing overvaluation of the peso and
the uncertainties caused by the eventual devaluation.
1.03      The rapid rate of population growth (averaging 3.3% p.a.) and con-
tinuing migration to the major cities have given rise to higher levels of
urban unemployment and underemployment in the last few years as the rates
of economic growth and industrial expansion have declined. Open unemploy-
ment, which was estimated at 4% in the 1970 census, has risen and, based on
surveys in the 3 largest cities, stood at around 6% in mid-1976. Contribu-
ting to the unemployment problem was the decline in the rate of growth of
industrial employment from 3.4% in 1965-70 to under 2% in 1970-75. An even
more serious problem is underemployment, reflected in more than 40% of
workers being engaged in part time or low productivity jobs in which they
earn Less than the minimum daily wage. Rising underemployment and unemploy-
ment have resulted in a progressive decline in the real incomes of the
poorest sections of the population since 1974.
1.04      Faced with a very difficult economic situation, the new Government
that took office in December 1976 moved rapidly to introduce measures designed
to stabilize the economy, stimulate more rapid economic growth, restore
investor confidence and increase employment. The strategies it has adopted
1/   These figures are taken from the Industrial Census of 1960 and 1975.
They exclude petroleum refining, basic petrochemicals and extraction
of minerals. The Population Census uses a broader definition of
manufacturing and therefore indicates a higher contribution of the
sector to total employment.



- 2 -
of controlling the fiscal deficit, raising interest rates to stimulate private
savings, encouraging new investments and maintaining a realistic exchange
rate have begun to bear fruit in a number of areas. Both the balance of
payments deficit and inflation are declining. Resource mobilization by the
banking system is improving and the substantial capital flight that took
place at the time of devaluation has now stopped allowing credit to the private
sector to be increased. In agreements signed with groups of industrial enter-
prises early in 1977, the authorities undertook to assist the private sector
in carrying out long-term investment plans aimed at increasing production in
various fields, and reassured it of the Government's commitment to create
an environment favorable to the development of private initiative, comple-
mented by public enterprise. As part of the Alliance for Production, agree-
ments between the public and private sectors have been reached to promote
investments totalling over US$4.4 billion equivalent in priority projects
in industry, agriculture and tourism. Tax remissions equivalent to 10 percent
of the value of investments are also being considered in an effort to quicken
the pace of investment. The decline in industrial output has apparently
bottomed out with production increases recorded in the second and third
quarters. Particularly encouraging was the increase of 21% in manufactured
exports in the first quarter of 1977 over the first quarter of 1976.
1.05      Given a continuation of appropriate policies, prospects are good
for a progressive acceleration of economic growth. The Government's targets
to get the economy back to a high growth path by 1979 and to reduce inflation
to international levels in the next 2-3 years appear feasible based on the
progress achieved during 1977. Rapidly rising petroleum output and exports
are already having an important influence in strengthening the balance of
payments and stimulating the economy. Industry can play a leading role in
achieving these targets provided that sufficient funds are available to
finance the necessary investments in productive capacity.
Small and Medium Scale Industry
1.06      According to the 1975 Industrial Census Mexican manufacturing
industry comprised some 120,000 enterprises, approximately the same number
shown in the 1970 census. The detailed results of the 1975 census have
not yet been published and thus the following analysis of the structure of
industry by size of firm has been based primarily on the 1970 figures.
Analysis of Manufacturing Enterprises According to Employment
(1970)
(Mex$ millions)
Number of        No. of    Total Capital      Gross         Value       Total No.
Paid Employees      Firms        Invested       Production     Added      of Employees
None          57,568           742           1,631         674         91,963
1   -   5        39,222        2,181           4,995        2,069        107,016
6   -  10           708         2,208           3,578       1,514         58,450
11   -  25         6,485        6,759           10,434       3,961        106,739
26   -  50         3,532         9,604          13,811       5,123        126,643
50   - 100         2,492        16,725          22,683       8,345        176,829
100   - 250         1,796        30,935          41,838      15,995        283,163
More than 250       1,065        87,263         113,435       44,700       630,444
Total          119,963      156,416         212,404       82,383      1,581,247



1.07      The above table shows that there are some 58,000 firms with no paid
employees, which rely on family labor. These firms, which contribute less
than 1% of mantfacturing value added, and have invested capital equivalent
to less than US$1,000 per firm, have traditionally been regarded as artisan
enterprises and not part of the organized industrial sector. If small
and medium sized industrial firms (SMI) are defined as those with I to 250
paid employees, then SMI accounted for some 61,000 firms which provided 45%
of 1970 gross manufacturing output and 54% of employment in manufacturing.
The 1065 large industrial firms contribute 54% of manufacturing output but
only 40% of employment.
1.08      Further analysis of the census data classifying firms with 1-25
employees as small and those with 26-250 workers as medium sized indicates
a number of differences between small and medium sized firms. The small
firms on average have only 4 or 5 employees compared with 75 in the medium
sized firms. The latter, although they represent only 10% of SMI firms,
contribute nearly 80% of value added and output by SMI firms and 60% of
employment, and are, therefore, a very important part of SMI. Both small
and medium sized enterprises are quite labor intensive. Converted to 1977
prices and then to US dollars, the revalued assets per employee of the
average small firm would be US$8,000, and that of medium sized firms,
US$14,000. These figures indicate a relatively high labor intensity of the
production processes of SMI. In nearly all industrial subsectors small
enterprises predominate by number of firms, and in subsectors producing
items of mass consumption (i.e. food products, garments, furniture and
wood products, leather goods, etc.), small firms play a very prominent
role. Over 75% of small firms and 60% of medium sized ones are located
outside Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara, the three largest metro-
politan areas.
1.09      Taking into account differences in capital intensity, the majority
of small and medium sized enterprises operate quite efficiently and compete
effectively with large firms. 1/ On average they appear reasonably profit-
able, reporting earnings of 10% on sales and 18% on equity capital in 1974.
Nevertheless, in common with enterprises of a similar size in other countries,
many SMI enterprises have deficiencies in accounting, administration, produc-
tion or marketing which stem from this small size and lack of specialization
of their management.  They also encounter greater difficulties in securing
adequate financing from commercial sources and suffer from a tendency of
industrial policies to favor the larger enterprises. These problems tend to
restrict the growth of SMI firms and are particularly serious for the smaller
firms, more than 90% of which are organized as sole proprietorship family
businesses or partnerships.
1.10      In view of their important role in manufacturing, their relative
labor intensiveness and their predominance outside the three big cities, SMI
can clearly make a major contribution to achieving national goals for employ-
ment creation and regional development. Furthermore, SMI enterprises provide
the seed bed for the development of entrepreneurial talent and for upgrading
1/   If a 10% cost of capital is assumed, then value added per unit of labor
cost plus capital cost is approximately the same for SMI firms as for
large firms.



- 4 -
the skills of the labor force and, by their linkages with large industry and
agriculture, they can help stimulate growth in other sectors of the economy.
Since they also produce a large precentage of mass consumption goods,
increasing their output and improving their productivity would also contribute
to future price stabilization.
Industrial Policies
1.11      A detailed review of Mexico's industrial policies is contained in
the report of an industrial sector mission that visited Mexico in late 1976
(Report No. 1671-ME) 1/ The new administration is currently in the process
of reassessing industrial policy and has already taken actions in several
policy areas that are in line with the recommendations of the report. The
areas of particular relevance to SMI are summarized below.
1.12      Protection.  Until 1970, Mexico's industrialization strategy gave
primary emphasis to import substitution, and protection for local manufac-
turing remains a major feature of industrial policy. A system of import
licensing has been used to restrict progressively the importation of manu-
factured goods once domestic production becomes feasible. The proportion
of imported items subject to licensing rose from about one third in 1950
to about four fifths in 1976. Tariffs have generally played a secondary
role in protection, and, while a few import classifications have been
subject to tariffs as high as 100%, most tariffs have been in the range
of 10-30%. In addition, numerous tariff exemptions have been allowed,
particularly in the case of public sector imports. Overall, protection
for domestic production has not been excessive and its effects have
been mitigated by internal competition and the difficulty of avoiding
smuggling if differentials between domestic and international prices become
too great. The protection policy was quite successful in inducing indus-
trialization in Mexico and by 1970 imports contributed only 10% of the
total supply of manufactured goods. Nevertheless, it has resulted in
higher domestic prices for locally manufactured products and intermediate
goods, which were about 15-20% above international levels in 1975. Price
and exchange rate movements since the 1976 devaluation indicate that average
industrial prices are now close to international levels.
1.13      The system of protection has generally had more influence on the
output prices of larger firms, since the smaller ones are subject to much
greater competition in the domestic market. On the other hand, the appli-
cation of the quantitative restrictions on imports has tended to create
difficulties for the smaller enterprises in securing an adequate and timely
supply of reasonable quality production inputs. These problems also affect
larger enterprises, but are more acute for the smaller firms which have weak
purchasing power, limited resources to finance high inventories and more
difficult access and less leverage when applying for import licenses. The
Government's time-phased plan to substantially reduce the proportion of
products subject to import licensing and to rely mainly on moderate tariff
protection in future should benefit most SMI firms. As a first step in the
implementation of this plan several product classes were freed from import
license requirements during the course of 1977.
1/   Report entitled MEXICO - Manufacturing Sector:  Situation, Prospects
and Policies, dated May 1, 1977.



- 5 -
1.14      Export promotion.  Since 1970 increased emphasis has been given to
promoting manufactured exports. Responding to the introduction of export
incentives in 1971, comprising rebates of indirect taxes, duty exemptions on
imports and increased credit at concessionary terms for financing export
production and sales, manufactured exports grew at 38.7% annually between
1970 and 1974 compared to 11.9% p.a. in the previous five years. Excluding
exports by border assembly industries (maquiladoras), manufactured exports
reached US$1,240 million in 1974. More favorable treatment granted after
1971 to export-oriented assembly plants in the free zone and border areas
also stimulated a rapid growth in their exports from US$215 million in 1970
to US$1,030 million in 1974. In 1975 and 1976 the world recession and
increasingly overvalued peso led to a significant decline in manufactured
exports measured in constant prices, but since the devaluation in late 1976
and the economic recovery that is now starting, manufacturing export
performance should improve noticeably.
MEXICO: Manufactured Exports 1971-1977 /1
(in millions of 1970 US$)
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976        1977
(6 months)
GeneraLl Manufactures   454.2   574.9   837.9  1242.9  1069.3  1191.1    675.2
Assembly Plants /2      270.0   426.2   651.2  1032.9  1020.6  1168.1    553.5
Total                724.2  1001.1  1489.1  2275.8  2089.9  2359.2   1228.7
/1  Eixcludes primary non-ferrous metals, petroleum and sugar.
/2   EBstimated value of total production.
1.15      While many SMI firms produce goods that are potentially competitive
interrnationally, comparatively few are exporting. The bulk of exports come
from the large firms, although in some sectors such as food, apparel and foot-
wear, a significant proportion of exports do come from medium sized firms.
SMI enterprises find it difficult to get adequate information regarding demand,
prices, quality and style requirements in external markets and to make appro-
priate contacts with foreign buyers. In addition the smaller enterprises often
do not: produce in sufficient quantities to interest prospective buyers and lack
confidence in their own ability to operate successfully in the more exacting
world of export markets. To help overcome these problems, increased attention
is beiing given to strengthening the role of industry associations and trading
companies in intermediating between SMI enterprises and their potential export
markets, and to the development of large scale commercial centers in the
northern border areas. In addition, Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior
(IMCE) is giving increased attention to the information and technical assist-
ance needs of small exporters.
1.16      Employment and wage policies also put SMI firms at a relative dis-
advantage. Because SMI is generally much more labor intensive than large
industry, labor costs and employment regulations have a much more important



influence on their production costs. However, there is a tendency for
employment and wage policies to reflect the situation and payment capacity
of large firms because of the latter's greater visibility and the greater
strength of the unions representing their workers. Average real wages in
manufacturing grew by about 4.2% per year between 1960 and 1976. The real
minimum wage grew slightly faster at 4.9% yearly. Since SMI have a higher
proportion of unskilled workers receiving the minimum wage, the effects
of these trends were more serious for SMI than for large firms. In addition,
the larger firms were better able to absorb these increases in wage costs
by improving labor productivity through increased automation. For many SMI
enterprises increases in social and other non-wage benefits for workers,
which now add about 50% to direct labor costs, have also had a significant
impact on production costs. Other aspects of labor legislation such as job
security, severence pay and minimum hours of work further reduce the flexi-
bility of SMI firms. The combination of these factors has tended to make
SMI firms cautious about expanding their labor force to take advantage
of market opportunities, and encourages them to switch to more capital-
intensive methods as they expand. Furthermore, a number of small firms
do not appear to be complying fully with minimum wage and other labor
legislation and are, therefore, inhibited from applying for financial or
technical assistance from public institutions. Some measures to reduce the
impact of the above factors on SMI growth are currently under review,
including the possible transfer of responsibility for paying some non-wage
benefits from individual companies to general fiscal revenues. In addition,
the authorities are considering measures to restore a more appropriate
balance in the relative prices of labor and capital, which in the past have
been biased in favor of capital as a result of duty exemptions on imported
machinery and equipment and other investment incentives, and an overvalued
exchange rate.
1.17      Industrial decentralization and regional development.  In recent
years the Mexican Government has become increasingly concerned about the
rapid growth and heavy concentration of population, industry and income
in the three largest urban centers of Mexico City, Monterrey and Guadalajara.
At its current rate of growth the population of Mexico City would reach
35 million by the year 2000 but the cost of providing municipal services,
particularly water, are already posing severe problems. In 1970-72 incentives
were introduced for decentralizing industry. For this purpose the country
was divided into three zones:  Zone 1 comprising the three big cities;
Zone 2 the areas adjacent to the big cities plus Puebla, Cuernavaca, Toluca
and Queretaro; and Zone 3 the rest of the country.
1.18      In addition to the differentiation of minimum wages by region and
reinforcement of the successful border assembly industry program already in
force, fiscal incentives were introduced for firms locating in Zones 2 and
3 comprising reductions of 50-100% in income taxes, sales taxes, import
duties on equipment and raw materials and other miscellaneous exemptions.
Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales y Centros Comerciales
(FIDEIN) was established in 1970 to plan and implement a program of new indus-
trial parks and industrial cities (large estate developments with residential
and commercial zones) at selected locations in Zones 2 and 3 to assist in the
decentralization process.
1.19      Despite the high level of these decentralizaton incentives, their
impact has been rather disappointing to dates, particularly in terms of employ-
ment generation. SMI does not seem to have been strongly influenced by the



incentives or to have derived much advantage from them. The fiscal incentives
are mostly subsidies to capital and these favor the larger, more capital-
intensive firms. About 16% of SMI firms have received some benefits from
these incentives, but it is doubtful whether many SMI enterprises based
their locational decisions on the availability of the incentives or whether
the incentives significantly influenced their creation or viability. FIDEIN
has sold lots on its estates to a significant number of SMI enterprises, but
comparatively few medium sized firms and fewer small firms have so far been
able to obtain the needed financing for factory construction. The decentrali-
zation program may also have suffered from a dilution of efforts and resources
caused by trying to do too much too quickly in too many different locations.
The program is currently under review and is expected to focus more clearly
in future on slowing down the growth of the Mexico City area and encouraging
development in a restricted number of regional locations that have the
potential to become alternative growth poles. In addition, increased atten-
tion is being given to improving access to financial and technical assistance
to firms located in the provinces via the proposed project.
Financing SMI
1.20      Mexico's well developed banking system, comprising more than 200
public, private and mixed ownership institutions, has been the primary source
of outside financing for industry as a whole, including SMI. Commercial banks
and investment banks (financieras) make industrial loans and investments
primarily from resources they mobilize via current and savings accounts,
deposits and the issue of certificates and bonds, but they also have access to
discounting facilities 1/ with public sector trust funds administered mainly
by the Banco de Mexico (the Central Bank) and Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA),
the main public sector development bank serving industry.  Fondo de Garantia y
Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequena (FOGAIN) is the most important trust
fund discounting bank loans to SMI. During the late 1960s and early 1970s
the banking system developed rapidly with the volume of outstanding credit
growing faster than GDP and average term of credit lengthening. Mexico's open
financial system allowed free flow of capital into and out of the country,
and the long period of exchange rate stability encouraged US deposits in
Mexican banks and foreign borrowings by Mexican firms. Generally credit was
readily obtainable by industrial firms that were judged to be a reasonable
credit risk by virtue of their size, reputation or the collateral they could
offer. Nevertheless the smaller firms had some difficulty in securing credit
because of banks' conservative attitude to risk and high collateral require-
ments, frequently exceeding 200% of the loan amount.
1.21      Since 1973 accelerating inflation and tighter monetary control
have slowed down the growth of the financial system and reduced credit
availability. By 1974 access to credit had become a serious problem for
SMI, with about 30% of firms having to supplement bank credit or substi-
tute for it by borrowing from money lenders and other unofficial sources.
1/   Strictly speaking, intermediaries do not discount loans with these
trust funds since they continue to bear the full credit risk. However,
they can obtain resources from these trust funds to enable them to
finance up to 100% of a loan provided that the lending terms and
conditions and the nature of the project to be financed meet the
requirements of the trust fund.



-8-
The recent major peso devaluation has accentuated this trend. Not only
are companies' needs for working capital much greater, but there has been
a substantial decline in the volume of resources mobilized by the banking
system in relation to the GDP (see Annex 3, T-1). In addition, large
companies which previously relied on foreign loans have now switched to
domestic borrowing, further accentuating the problems of SMI. While the
policy of the new administration to allow interest rates to rise (see
para. 1.24) has resulted in better resources mobilization by the banks,
industrial credit seems likely to remain in very short supply for the next
2 to 3 years. In these circumstances SMI enterprises are finding it very
difficult to gain access to term financing from banks unless the latter can
discount the loan with FOGAIN, which is now experiencing resource constraints.
1.22      The stock market is not well developed in Mexico and has not been
a very important mechanism for industrial companies to raise equity finance
or sell long term bonds to the public. Comparatively few, mostly large,
companies are listed and most trading is in relatively short term instruments
(6-month to 2-year certificates) issued by financial institutions. The avail-
ability of high yielding and highly liquid debt instruments offering, until
recently, real returns to savers reduced their interest in long term risk
investments. While large companies have circumvented this problem in part
by developing interlocking relationships with investment banks, SMI firms
find it very difficult to raise risk capital from new investors and have
to rely mainly on reinvested profits and new subscriptions by existing
shareholders. Recognizing these problems, the Government created Fondo
Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN) in 1972 to help in the creation
and expansion of SMI firms by investing, on a temporary basis, up to one
third of the equity capital required. In its four years of operation to date
FOMIN has had rather limited resources and had to develop its own expertise
in this rather difficult investment field. It has so far had a useful, but
relatively minor, impact on SMI's equity financing problems.
1.23      Other trust funds.  Three other trust funds, which are designed to
serve industry as a whole, also provide some financing to SMI for specialized
purposes. Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI), a Banco de Mexico fund,
provides financing for export projects and new import substitution projects. I/
Its clients are comparatively large, but about 40% of its financing has gone
to medium sized firms.  Fondo para el Fomento de Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados (FOMEX), also a Banco de Mexico fund, provides short term
financing for export production and sales. Fondo Nacional de Estudios de
Preinversion (FONEP), which is administered by NAFINSA, finances feasibility
studies for new industrial projects. To date these funds have not had a
very significant impact on meeting the broad financial needs of SMI.
Interest Rates and Inflation
1.24      Following the stabilization measures introduced by the new admin-
istration, inflation has been declining steadily from the 33% annual rate
experienced in the first three months of 1977, averaging 21% for 1977 as
a whole. It is projected to progressively decline to international levels
over the next 3 years. To boost peso denominated savings and reverse
1/   FONEI received two World Bank loans in 1972 and 1975 totalling
US$85 million.



- 9 -
capital flight, in May 1977 investment bank and mortgage banks were
authorized to offer higher maximum interest rates on time deposits ranging
from 7% on short term deposits to 18.5% on 2-year certificates of deposit. 1/
Should inflation not decline as rapidly as expected, further adjustments
may be made to the maximum permitted rates. On the lending side, banks
and financieras have been switching progressively to a system of floating
interest rates on medium and long term loans to reflect their increased
uncertainties about their future cost of funds, which have relatively short
average maturities, and to avoid a situation in which companies are inhibited
from investing through fear of being locked in to high interest rates when
inflation declines. Most banks are now relating their interest rates to
the index of the average cost of borrowed funds to financieras (ACF) which is
published monthly by the Banco de Mexico (see Annex 2).
1.25      Between May 1977 and February 1978, this index has increased from
11.9% to 14.7%. Banks are currently charging their clients margins of
3-7 points higher than this index (i.e. interest rates of 18-22% at present).
The margins are expected to be reduced somewhat in the coming year once the
banks overcome the problem of funding low fixed interest loans made in previous
years. Onlending rates of government trust funds, which have usually been set
a few points below commercial rates, are also under review. For example,
FONEI now applies fully floating interest rates, and FONATUR 2/ is planning to
do so shortly. For loans they finance through these trust funds, intermediary
banks pay a rate approximately equal to the ACF index and relend to their
clients at a rate I to 3 points higher. In connection with the proposed Bank
projec:t, FOGAIN is proposing to adopt a system whereby its interest rates
would be adjusted periodically to keep in line with general trends in interest
rates (see para. 2.12).
Technical Assistance
1.26      SMI enterprises in Mexico tend to suffer from a wide range of
managerial and technical problems apart from limited access to finance.
Indeed, it is often these other problems that give rise to the need for
external financing, while reducing the firm's creditworthiness in the eyes
of a prospective financing source. These problems tend to be associated
with enterprise size and the background of the entrepreneur and are not
fundamentally different from those facing SMI in other industrialized and
semi-industrialized countries. They may include (1) inadequate financial
management and accounting; (2) lack of control of product quality; (3) dif-
ficulty in keeping up with technological developments; (4) limited knowledge
of how to tackle new markets and exports; and (5) management weaknesses in
purchasing, inventory control, production, labor management, etc.
1.27      There are large numbers of agencies, institutions, trade associations
and public as well as priviate consultancies in Mexico offering a wide range
of technical assistance services to industry, usually of a rather limited and
1/   After withholding taxes, time deposits yield effective rates of 5-16%.
2/   Fondo Nacional de Turismo (FONATUR) finances tourism infrastructure and
hotel construction.



- 10 -
specialized type. There is no institution offering a comprehensive service to
SMI, but five important institutions offer services that are relevant to
SMI's needs. These are Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT),
Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas (IMIT), Centro Nacional
de Productividad (CENAPRO), Instituto Mexicano de Comercio Exterior (IMCE),
and Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica (INFOTEC).
1.28      CONACYT has the primary task of formulating and coordinating national
policies for science and technology. Since 1974 it has started to establish
some regional advisory centers for industry on production and technology
matters at locations where there are concentrations of particular types
of industrial activity. It also created a technical information and advisory
service for industry, which has now been made a separate agency under the
name of INFOTEC. IMIT carries out research and development work to help
improve products and production processes, and also helps its clients to
formulate and evaluate industrial investment projects. CENAPRO was estab-
lished in the early 1960s, mainly to provide management training courses.
Since then it has spread its activities to include training programs for
management personnel of all levels, and vocational training courses for
technicians and skilled workers in diverse areas. IMCE is a large, well-
staffed institution that was created to stimulate exports by providing inform-
ation and advice to exporters and by organizing trade fairs and promotions.
Recently IMCE has been focussing more attention on the problems of small
exporters, and is providing courses on exporting and helping SMI firms design
their products for export requirements and exhibit them at trade fairs.
1.29      Despite the existence of these and other institutions, at present
comparatively few SMI enterprises appear to be receiving the assistance they
need, and this is particularly true of the small enterprises. Many small
enterprises are unaware of their managerial and technical shortcomings, and
receive little outside assistance in diagnosing them. Moreover, the small
entrepreneur is often unaware of what sources of assistance are available
and, in any case, has no readily available funds or sources of credit to
finance such assistance. Existing technical assistance institutions direct
their attention more to the larger companies and the content and cost of
their services is often inappropriate to the small enterprises. Furthermore,
most of these institutions concentrate their activities in the three largest
cities, and are not known to, or easily accessible by SMI enterprises in the
provinces. A survey by Nacional Financiera indicated that 48% of SMI firms
questioned had received no technical assistance from any source. Of those
that had received assistance, 60% had received aid on production matters
mainly from equipment suppliers, 35% had received some assistance in training
their work force and only 10% had received assistance in marketing matters.
The proportion receiving assistance in general management and financial
matters was negligible.
The New Integrated Program to Support SMI Development
1.30      Recognizing the economic importance of promoting growth of SMI
firms, the scarcity of financing they are currently experiencing, and the
deficiencies in the present system of institutional support for SMI, NAFINSA,
which has a close administrative or other relationship with the more important



- 11 -
SMI: institutions, has designed and is now preparing to implement, with
support from the proposed Bank loan, a comprehensive 'Integrated Program' 1/
of financial and technical assistance for SMI. The Program would make fulT
use of the extensive institutional framework that already exists in Mexico,
and would have the following main objectives:
(a) to foster more rapid growth in output and employment by
encouraging and helping to finance additional private sector
investments in new SMI enterprises or expansions of existing
SMI enterprises;
(b) to promote and facilitate the achievement of national plans
for industrial decentralization and regional development by
making financial and technical assistance more readily avail-
able to firms located or wishing to locate outside the main
metropolitan areas;
(c) to create a more comprehensive and effective system of support
for SMI by coordinating more closely the activities of existing
financing and technical assistance institutions, improving
access of small firms to these institutions, and expanding the
volume and range of services they provide; and
(d) to help in developing a mechanism to (i) ensure that the
special problems and needs of SMI enterprises are adequately
taken into account in formulating national industrial policies
and programs and (ii) better orient the institutional support
to SMI towards the achievement of national industrial develop-
ment goals.
1.31      This Program, which would be administered by NAFINSA, would comprise
four major components or 'Subprograms': credit and guarantees to be provided
by FOGAIN via commercial banks; risk capital to be provided by FOMIN; financing
for facilities on industrial parks and equipment leasing provided by FIDEIN;
and technical assistance to be provided mainly by extension agents recruited
and trained by NAFINSA and by specialized institutions such as CENAPRO,
INFOTEC and IMIT. The Program would aim to assist SMI enterprises as presently
defined by FOGAIN, i.e. those enterprises having equity capital between
Mex$25,000 and Mex$35 million. 2/  Special features would be incorporated to
increase support for 'small' enterprises defined as SMI firms with equity
capital below Mex$3.5 million.
1.32      The Program would be implemented in several stages.  During the
first stage, of about 3 years, it would have an experimentai character because
of the need to (i) test out and perfect several new approaches to assisting
SMI; (ii) implement operational improvements in several of the participating
1/   Henceforth referred to as the 'Program'.
2/   This definition of SMI corresponds approximately to enterprises having
between 1 and 250 paid workers. Artisan enterprises having equity
capital below Mex$25,000 would not be financed under the Program since
their needs are quite different and alternative institutional arrange-
ments outside NAFINSA are used to support them.



- 12 -
institutions; and (iii) develop and staff a suitable organizational framework
for carrying out the rather complex project. Resources channeled to partici-
pating institutions in this stage would enable them to expand and diversify
their activities. In later stages the scope of the Program would be broadened,
building on the experience of the first, and may include additional institu-
tions and the provision of additional services. The remainder of this report
describes the first stage of the Program, which is intended to be financed
by the proposed Bank loan.
II. THE CREDIT AND GUARANTEE SUBPROGRAM
Objectives
2.01      This subprogram would aim at increasing the amount of credit made
available by the banking system to SMI subprojects in accordance with the
objectives of the Program (para. 1.30). It would be implemented by FOGAIN,
which would use Program resources of about Mex$1,240 million (in constant
1977 pesos) for discounting loans made by intermediaries to finance fixed
asset expansions by SMI firms that (a) involve new productive capacity or
expansions of existing capacity; or (b) represent a relocation in accordance
with national decentralization policies. In general, firms selected for
assistance in this subprogram will be those requiring, or likely to require,
integrated support from more than one of the various mechanisms to be made
available under the overall Program (i.e., credit plus risk capital, facilities
on industrial parks, credit guarantees or technical assistance). To increase
the interest of commercial banks and other intermediaries in lending to small
enterprises this subprogram would also include the improvement and extension
of FOGAIN's credit guarantee scheme involving an initial capital outlay of
about Mex$10 million (constant 1977 pesos).
Institutional Background
2.02      FOGAIN, the oldest and best known of Mexico's institutions support-
ing SMI, was established in 1954 as a government trust fund administered by
Nacional Financiera. It can rediscount up to 100% of credits granted to SMI
enterprises by financial intermediaries, mainly commercial banks and finan-
cieras but also including credit unions established by groups of smaller
enterprises. Enterprises with equity capital between Mex$25,000 and Mex$35
maillion 1/ are eligible for FOGAIN discounts.  To support its operations
FOGAIN receives government equity contributions and loans from Banco de Mexico,
and is also authorized to contract loans (via NAFINSA) from other domestic or
foreign sources.
2.03      FOGAIN's operating regulations authorize it to finance SMI enter-
prises in three ways. First, it can discount loans (normally of up to 10
years' maturity) made by intermediaries to SMI for working capital (up to
Mex$3.5 million per enterprise), fixed assets (up to Mex$4.5 million) and debt
restructuring (up to Mex$7.0 million) provided that total financing of all
1/   In practice FOGAIN uses a maximum limit of Mex$30 million for its
credits, except in special cases such as export-oriented projects.



- 13 -
three types to a single enterprise does not exceed Mex$10.0 million. Second,
it can provide partial credit guarantees to banks on SMI loans, but due to
various restrictive conditions and lack of active promotion of this facility,
FOGAIN has made few guarantees in the past. The revised guarantee scheme to
be established under the Program is designed to remedy this situation (see
para. 2.25). Finally, FOGAIN can subscribe to bonds issued by SMI enterprises
through intermediaries; this facility too has practically never been used by
FOGAIN, due to the lack of interest among the intermediaries in bonds of SMI
enterprises involving only a general security on the total assets of the
enterprises (rather than specific collaterals), absence of a potential market
for such bonds and the higher interest rates to the final borrower they are
likely to involve. FOGAIN's operating regulations also specify that its total
liabilities including guarantees and other contingent liabilities cannot
exceed 10 times its equity.
Organization, Management and Staffing of FOGAIN
2.04      The governing body of FOGAIN is its Technical Committee, composed of
representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of National Patrimony
and Industrial Development, Confederacion de Camaras Industriales (CONCAMIN) 1/,
NAFINSA, Banco de Mexico, FOMIN, Camara Nacional de la Industria de
Transformacion (CANACINTRA), 2/ and Centro Nacional de Productividad (CENAPRO).
The representative of the Ministry of Finance usually acts as the Chairman of
the Technical Committee. The Committee, which takes a very active interest in
directing FOGAIN's activities, meets about twice a month to make decisions on
FOGAIN's policies, procedures, financial plans and budgets, and to approve
discounting and other operations larger than Mex$2 million, based on recom-
mendations from FOGAIN's staff. FOGAIN's Director is authorized by the Technical
Committee to approve discounting operations of up to Mex$2 million (accounting
for about 70% of FOGAIN's total credits).
2.05      An indicative organization chart of FOGAIN is shown in Annex 3, C-1.
FOGAIN's staff of about 100 (including about 40 professionals) is mostly based
at its head office in Mexico City, but includes regional representatives
stationed are each at 11 of NAFINSA's 15 regional offices (see Annex 3, T-22).
FOGAIN's Director, Mr. Sabas Francia Garcia, has had more than 20 years'
experience with FOGAIN, and is well known to most SMI institutions and banks
in Mexico. FOGAIN's staff is generally well qualified and has the required
experience; however, there are gaps in the middle management level which
appear to be preventing the utilization of the staff's full potential. For
instance, the positions of the managers of the Department of Credit and the
Department of Administration are vacant, and at present the heads of each
individual section under these departments report directly to the Director.
The hierarchical organizational relationships are not very clearly defined
leading to an overly centralized management structure.
1/   Confederation of chambers of commerce representing industry as a whole.
2/   Chamber of commerce representing SMI.



- 14 -
2.06      FOGAIN has already developed outline plans to strengthen its
internal organization, but has been hindered from finalizing and implemen-
ting these plans by budget and other factors. To enable FOGAIN to cope
with the increased volume and scope of operations implied in the implementa-
tion of the Credit and Guarantees Subprogram, some strengthening of FOGAIN's
management structure and increases in its staffing, will be needed. During
loan negotiations FOGAIN confirmed that it would engage suitable consultants
to review its future organizational and staffing needs and to take appropriate
action based on their recommendations.
FOGAIN's Past Operations
2.07      Since 1954, FOGAIN assisted more than 12,000 SMI enterprises
through nearly 24,000 loans totalling Mex$9 billion in nominal terms. During
1961-71 FOGAIN's level of operations became relatively static at about 750
loans per year. From 1972 on, operations began to increase rapidly as
FOGAIN became more promotional and liquidity became an increasingly important
constraint to direct lending by banks. FOGAIN's loan portfolio has grown at
an annual rate of 33% over the last 4 years (in nominal terms), to reach a
substantial level of Mex$2.2 billion (about US$100 million equivalent) by June
30, 1977, distributed among about 6,100 credits and operated through nearly
140 intermediaries. 1/
2.08      Annex 3, T-2 analyzes the credit authorized by FOGAIN during the
last year, according to the size of credit, size of enterprise supported,
location, type of financing and type of activity. More than three quarters
of the number of credits and about 40% of the total amount of credit authorized
by FOGAIN last year went to "small" enterprises (enterprises with equity capital
of up to Mex$3.5 million). Loans of less than Mex$2.0 million accounted for
the great majority (about 85%) of the total number of credits. More than half
of the credit was for projects in Zones 2 and 3 (that is, outside the three
major metropolitan areas of Mexico City, Guadalajara, and Monterrey); about 40% of
the credit was to support acquisition of fixed assets. The activities most
often supported by FOGAIN's financing were metal working and fabrication, and
manufacture of food, clothes, footwear and furniture. A similar analysis of
all the fixed asset loans provided through FOGAIN over the last four years
indicates a generally parallel pattern (see Annex 3, T-3). Maturities on
FOGAIN's financing have generally varied from I to 3 years in the case of
working capital loans, and 3 to 8 years in the case of fixed asset loans and
debt restructuring loans.
2.09      FOGAIN's position as a second-tier institution enables its financing
to reach a large number of SMI enterprises in all geographical regions without
making FOGAIN's administrative burden excessive since, under the discounting
scheme, the primary responsibility for promoting FOGAIN's services, evaluating
credits and administering approved loans to the final borrowers lies with the
participating intermediary. However, since FOGAIN's margins for the inter-
mediaries are fixed at 3% regardless of the size of the final beneficiary, the
1/   The five intermediaries with the largest participation accounted for
about one third of FOGAIN's total loan portfolio as of June 30, 1977;
beyond this the portfolio is widely and relatively uniformly distri-
buted among a large number of intermediaries, including commercial
banks, investment banks, credit unions and other financial institutions.



- 15 -
commercial banks and other intermediaries have tended in the past to prefer
lending to medium rather than small sized enterprises because of the higher
administrative costs, less adequate collaterals and higher perceived risks
associated with making small loans to the smaller enterprises. To correct
this bias, in connection with the proposed loan FOGAIN has undertaken to
carry out, before the end of 1978, a study of the adequacy of its margins
to the intermediaries, focussing on the possibility of offering slightly
higher margins to the banks when discounting their loans to the smaller
enterprises. The second-tier status of FOGAIN has also severely limited its
ability to identify and provide the technical assistance needs of its clients.
Its recently established Technical Assistance and Promotions Department is
small, with only 3 professionals other than the 11 field representatives who
devote their attention mainly to promotional activities. So far its main
achievements in the technical assistance area have been to produce short
courses given through audiovisual presentations to explain the types of
financing available from FOGAIN to banks and potential clients and to intro-
duce basic accounting principles to their smaller client enterprises that need
help in preparing lcan requests. Under the Program the task of providing
technical assistancet to FOGAIN's SMI clients will be undertaken primarily
through the team of extension agents to be recruited by NAFINSA. Thus FOGAIN's
representatives will be able to devote their attention mainly to promoting
its services with regional industry groups and bankers.
FOGAIN's Past Financial Performance
2.10      Tables T-5 and T-6 of Annex 3 include comparative balance sheets and
income statements (audited except for 1976/77) of FOGAIN for the last four
years. They show an acceptable overall financial position reflecting rapid
growth in its operations. FOGAIN's portfolio of outstanding loans has been
financed mainly through equity (21% as of June 30, 1977), certificates of
participation issued through Banco de Mexico (48%) 1/ and a series of loans
from the Inter-American Development Bank (28%). 2/ Total debt to equity ratio,
which increased to about 3.4:1 by June 1977, is still at a very acceptable
level given that FOGAIN is a second-tier discounting fund, and is below the
maximum 10:1 ratio specified in FOGAIN's operating regulations. The current
ratios have been high, reflecting the large current portions of its loan port-
folio; such high liquidities are, however, not unusual for discounting funds
and are necessary to cover FOGAIN's undisbursed commitments of similar mag-
nitudes. FOGAIN incurred small losses equivalent to about 0.2% and 0.3% of
average total assets during the fiscal years 1974/75 and 1975/76 because
increases in its financial costs were not offset by increased lending rates.
1/   The certificates of participation issued until June 1977 carried an
interest rate of 8% but, in order to take account of the increase in
inflation, Banco de Mexico recently raised the rate on new certificates
issued for FOGAIN to 10%.
2/   FOGAIN was the recipient of 7 IDB loans totalling US$53 million over
the past 15 years, at interest rates of 4-8%. The borrowings from IDB,
which are denominated in foreign exchange, show a sudden increase in
1976/77 as a proportion of FOGAIN's total liabilities, due to the major
devaluation of the Mexican peso in September, 1976 and subsequent
changes in the floating exchange rate.



- 16 -
Although FOGAIN raised its lending rates in early 1977 (para. 2.12), it suffered
a higher loss of about 2.1% of average total assets during 1976/77, since the
increased interest rate on new loans was insufficient to cover fully the
higher principal and interest payments due on the IDB loans following the
substantial devaluation of the peso. Administrative and general expenses as
a percentage of average loan portfolio ranged from 1.0% to 1.5% in the past,
which is reasonable in view of FOGAIN's small median loan size.
2.11      Reflecting its position as a second-tier financial institution
operating through banks and other intermediaries who bear the credit risk,
FOGAIN suffered virtually no losses on its loan portfolio during the many
years of its operation. Arrears on loans correspond to only about 0.4% of
its current loan portfolio, and few of these have been in arrears for more
than three months.
Interest Rates and Onlending Terms
2.12      FOGAIN raised its fixed interest rates by 2 points in early 1977 to
12-14% per annum, depending on whether the project is located in Zone 1 (14%),
Zone 2 (13%) or Zone 3 (12%), in all cases including a margin of 3 points for
the intermediary bank. However, FOGAIN now needs to make further adjustments
to its interest rates to reflect movements in the general level of interest
rates since early 1977 and to take into account increases in its own cost of
funds. During the loan negotiations FOGAIN confirmed its intention to review
its interest rates at least annually and make appropriate adjustments, to
reflect the changes in the index of the average cost of funds to financieras
(the ACF index referred to in para. 1.24 and calculated monthly by Banco de
Mexico as outlined in Annex 2) and changes in its own borrowing costs.
Specifically, the average interest rate of the final beneficiaries on FOGAIN's
new subloans would be set at 1 to 3 percentage points above the level of the
ACF index applicable at the time of the latest annual adjustment. Thus
FOGAIN's interest rates to the final borrowers would be comparable to those
of FONEI (para. 1.25), but would be fixed during the life of a subloan. The
above system would give FOGAIN the flexibility to differentiate interest rates
to the final borrowers depending on their location in Zone 1, 2 or 3, and to
vary in the future its margins to the intermediaries depending on the size of
the borrower (para. 2.09), as long as the weighted average of the final
interest rates on its loans falls within 1%-3% above the ACF index. As the
first step in changing to this new system, FOGAIN agreed that the average
interest rate on its new subloans would be increased to 16% before it would
submit any applications for withdrawal from the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan. Following this, FOGAIN would complete the first review and appropriate
adjustment of its interest rates along the above lines before the end of 1978;
further reviews and adjustments would be made once per year thereafter or more
frequently if the ACF index changes by more than two points between two annual
adjustments.
2.13      The above proposals would represent a significant improvement in
FOGAIN's interest structure. The ACF index is considered a reasonable measure
of the present cost of raising domestic resources and the Government has
announced its intention to permit adjustments in financieras' borrowing
interest rates in the future to ensure adequate domestic resource mobilization.
Current expectations are that the ACF index will move only gradually over the
next 3-4 year period and settle down at a level a few points higher than the



- 17 -
inflation rate (Annex 2). FOGAIN's average lending rate to its borrowers over
that period is expected to exceed by a slight but increasing margin the
projected annual inflation rates of 16% for 1978 and 1979, 14% for 1980, and
11% for 1981.
Operational and Financial Projections and Resource Requirements
2.14      Annex 3, T-4 presents the projections of FOGAIN's credit operations
for the next 5 years. Total credit authorizations are projected conservatively
to grow at an average annual rate of about 25% in current terms, 1/ reflecting
a continued high demand for FOGAIN's financing, which is expected to result
partly from the activities of the industrial extension agents promoting SMI
investments in the field and a closer coordination among the various agencies
supporting SMI expected to be achieved through the Program. The corresponding
projected balance sheets (including the projected net additional resource
requirements) and income statements are shown in Annex 3, T-5 and T-6.
2.15      The projections show that over the next five years, FOGAIN's loan
portfolio as well as total assets would grow at an average annual rate of
approximately 30% over the projection period to reach about Mex$8.9 billion
(estimated to be more than US$220 million equivalent) by mid-1982. In addi-
cion to Program resources of about Mex$1.8 billion in current terms 2/
(including about Mex$1.0 billion from the proceeds of the Bank loan, Mex$0.55
billion from Banco de Mexico and Mex$0.25 billion in the form of budgetary
contributions to FOGAIN's equity) expected to be made available to FOGAIN, the
above expansions in FOGAIN's credit operations would require additional
resources in the form of net new borrowings of about Mex$5.8 billion over the
5-year period. These are expected to be procured mainly in the form of
additional certificates of deposit issued through Banco de Mexico and potential
borrowings from IDB and other external institutions. Although long term
borrowings would increase substantially to support the above growth, FOGAIN
would be able to maintain an acceptable financial structure, with the long
term debt to equity ratio rising gradually from 3.4:1 in 1977 to about 6.8:1
in 1982, which would not be excessive for a rediscounting fund such as FOGAIN.
With the expected revision of FOGAIN's average lending rates along the lines
discussed (para. 2.12) and some economies of scale with respect to adminis-
trative expenses, profitability is expected to improve, enabling FOGAIN
to achieve a small net profit averaging about 1% on the average total assets
(7% on average equity) during 1979-82. Overall, FOGAIN's financial position
can be expected to be acceptable throughout the forecast period.
Project Evaluation and Follow-Up
2.16      Intermediaries evaluate the creditworthiness and future potential of
the client enterprises for purposes of their own decision making before sub-
mitting them for discounting with FOGAIN. FOGAIN then analyzes the loan
1/   Although this projected growth rate is lower than that in the past,
it is a reasonable estimate in view of the much larger overall size
of FOGAIN's operations compared to a few years earlier and the
expected decline in the inflation rate.
2/   That is, about Mex$1.25 billion in constant 1977 pesos.



- 18 -
applications to verify their eligibility for discounting under its operating
regulations and policies, and to assess the projects supported from admin-
istrative, financial, technical, marketing and environmental viewpoints.
The intermediary is obliged to furnish to FOGAIN any further information
it may require on the projects submitted.
2.17      FOGAIN classifies all its credit applications 1/ received into
"creditos menores" (up to Mex$2 million) and "creditos mayores" (more than
Mex$2 million) and uses slightly different procedures to process the two
categories of applications. Its procedures for "creditos menores" concentrate
on an analysis of the organizational and market aspects and a simple financial
ratio analysis of the client enterprise, and do not include an internal
financial or economic rate of return calculation for the investment project.
For credits of up to Mex$l million among the "creditos menores", FOGAIN
further helps expedite loan processing by allowing intermediaries to disburse
on the credits using funds from "lines of credit" opened by FOGAIN in favor
of the individual intermediaries; the intermediary can thus obtain speedy
reimbursement although such reimbursement subsequently has to be authorized
by FOGAIN. 2/ In the case of "creditos mayores", an internal financial rate
of return calculaticn is included, but this is generally carried out on the
basis of projected cash flow of the enterprise as a whole, rather than on
incremental cash flow generated by the investment project. FOGAIN has also
been carrying out an economic rate of return (ERR) calculation in the case
of its "creditos mayores" involving fixed asset investments of more than
US$50,000, but the procedure for this calculation suffers from some defi-
ciencies; in particular, domestic prices rather than international border
prices (or shadow prices) are used for all inputs and outputs. Perhaps as
a result of the absence of an appropriate incremental cash flow analysis of
the project, the maturities and grace periods of the loans granted by FOGAIN
appear to be somewhat stringent and may be restricting the expansion poten-
tial of some profitable firms obtaining financing through FOGAIN. 3/
2.18      Responsibility for following up an FOGAIN's credits rests primarily
with the participating intermediaries. The intermediaries engage in follow-
up activities with varying intensities, concentrating mainly on cases of loan
arrears. FOGAIN periodically carries out a relatively comprehensive statistical
analysis of the characteristics of credits authorized by it. However, it has
not thus far indulged in a systematic follow-up of its individual projects to
compare the performance with anticipated results. FOGAIN recently assigned
1/   FOGAIN processed nearly 400 applications per month on average during
1977, of which more than 300 per month were ultimately authorized.
2/   FOGAIN authorizes a "line of credit" upon the specific request of the
intermediary; the size of the line of credit is determined by FOGAIN
depending on the financial position and volume of discounting opera-
tions of the concerned intermediary. As of June 30, 1977, about 100
intermediaries were making use of the line of credit facilities and
credits approved under the lines of credit accounted for about 19%
of FOGAIN's total loan portfolio.
3/   FOGAIN's total processing times average about two weeks for "creditos
menores" and 6-7 weeks for "creditos mayores," indicating relatively
quick processing overall.



- 19 -
this responsibility to its Programming, Budgeting and Control Department, but
is yet to define clearly the particular approach to be adopted for the follow-
up activity.
2.19      As a first step in strengthening FOGAIN's project evaluation pro-
cedures, the Bank would require an incremental cash flow analysis indicating
the adequacy of maturities and grace periods, and internal financial rate of
return calculation following standard Bank guidelines on all FOGAIN "creditos
mayores" submitted for financing from the Program resources. In the case of
the "creditos mayores" in 3 selected subsectors 1/ with high levels of protec-
tion, FOGAIN would be required to carry out, on an experimental basis, an ERR
calculation following standard Bank guidelines for DFCs. Further improve-
ments in project evaluation procedures would be discussed with FOGAIN once
it has gained sufficient experience in implementing the above changes.
FOGAIN would also be required to carry out a follow-up of its projects on a
sampling basis in order to assess whether or not the goals of its financing
are being achieved and to consider any corrective actions required. The
Coordinating Committee (para. 5.02) of the Program would have the overall
responsibility for ensuring, on a continuing basis, that any reforms required
in FOGAIN's evaluation and follow-up procedures in connection with the Program
are adequately implemented.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
2.20      Due to the unsophisticated nature of FOGAIN's smaller client
enterprises and the relatively small average loan size, it is often not
practical for FOGAIN to insist on price quotations from several suppliers.
However, FOGAIN takes adequate steps to ensure as part of its project
appraisals that the prices paid by client enterprises for goods and services
acquired using FOGAIN's financing are reasonable. Where necessary, espe-
cially in the case of fixed asset loans exceeding Mex$2.0 million, FOGAIN
requests additional information from the borrower on the justification for
the selection of the particular equipment and the corresponding purchase
price. These procedures for procurement are satisfactory, especially in
view of the relatively low level of protection in Mexico for industrial
inputs (para. 1.12).
2.21      Disbursement procedures are adequate.  The participating inter-
mediaries are held responsible for ensuring that FOGAIN's financing is used
for the purposes intended. Disbursements are made by FOGAIN to a partici-
pating intermediary under the condition that it submits satisfactory docu-
mentation within a specified time (usually a few weeks) as evidence of the
purchase of goods or services authorized. If this condition is not met,
the intermediary would have to return to FOGAIN any disbursements already
made. Satisfactory documentation in the case of fixed asset loans comprises
purchase invoices and import documentation, if any; for construction loans,
the intermediary or its agent (for example, a civil engineering consultant)
has to certify that construction is proceeding according to the specifica-
tions agreed; in the case of the working capital loans, the intermediary
is responsible for ensuring (through plant visits, if necessary) that the
items purchased are as per the agreement with FOGAIN.
1/   Namely textiles, chemicals, and metal products and machine fabrication.



- 20 -
Accounting Procedures and Auditing Arrangements
2.22      FOGAIN maintains an adequate accounting system.  Its accounts are
generally up to date and are audited annually as of June 30. For the last
four years the auditors have been Mancera Hermanos y Compania, S.C., an
established Mexican auditing firm of acceptable quality. In each of those
years FOGAIN received an unqualified audit report.
The Credit Guarantee Scheme
2.23      An important aim of the Integrated Program is to provide access
to credit to small industrial enterprises that do not currently have such
access because of lack of sufficient collateral to offer the banks. In
order to achieve this aim, it will be necessary to revise and extend
FOGAIN's guarantee facility, which has been little used so far. Over the
past six years it guaranteed only 46 loans totalling Mex$9.2 million, of
which only about Mex$3.7 million was covered by the guarantees (see Annex
3, T-7).
2.24      There appear to be two main reasons for the minimal use of FOGAIN's
existing guarantee authority. First, the authority has been severely restricted
both in terms of risk coverage and loan size. In Zone 1 FOGAIN's guarantee
could not exceed Mex$200,000 or 50% of the loan, whichever is lower. In Zones 2
and 3 the guarantee could go up to 75% of the loan, but not exceed Mex$112,500.
Perhaps more importantly, FOGAIN itself was not enthusiastic about using its
guarantee authority because it had not received sufficient allocation of
funds to provide a reserve against possible losses. Consequently, FOGAIN
did not promote the guarantee idea and never spelled out clearly important
aspects of the scheme in its publications, and as a result, banks did not
submit many guarantee applications.
2.25      Upon the request of the Mexican authorities in connection with the
proposed project, the Bank provided the services of a consultant to examine
the existing guarantee scheme and suggest methods of correcting its deficiencies.
Based on the consultant's recommendations and the mission's discussions with
the Mexican officials, FOGAIN is proposing to expand and improve the features
of its guarantee facility. FOGAIN has already modified its operating regu-
lations to increase the maximum guarantee that it can grant on a SMI loan to
Mex$750,000 or 75% of the loan amount, whichever is lower provided the total
loan size does not exceed Mex$1 million.  In addition, during the loan nego-
tiations, the Mexican delegation informed the Bank that FOGAIN's capital
reserve will be increased by about Mex$10 million as required to cover
possible losses incurred in operating the guarantee facility.  This is ex-
pected to be sufficient to support credit guarantees of about 10 times,
i.e. about Mex$100 million (about US$4 million equivalent). It may later be
supplemented by further government equity allocations to FOGAIN to enable
expansion of the scheme, depending on the demand for guarantees and the
success of the scheme. A guarantee premium would be charged with the aim
of making the scheme self-financing in the long run; a premium of 1.5%-2.0%
per annum on the outstanding guarantee amount is contemplated initially, but
this would be adjusted as necessary in the future to take account of the
administrative and financial costs of the scheme.
2.26      During the initial 2-3 year period of the Program FOGAIN would
rely mainly on the industrial extension agents to be recruited by Nacional
Financiera under the Technical Assistance Subprogram (para. 5.05) to identify
and recommend enterprises that would need assistance from the guarantee



- 21 -
scheme. However, it would also consider requests for loan guarantees
received from banks without the intervention of an industrial extension
agent. Prior to the end of 1978, FOGAIN, with assistance as necessary from
the Secretariat of the Integrated Program (para. 5.02), would prepare a
detailed procedures manual for the operation of the guarantee scheme,
including claims and recovery procedures and the obligations of the
participating bank in following up on loan recoveries. The Coordinating
Committee of the Integrated Program would be responsible for periodically
reviewing the parameters of the scheme and for helping FOGAIN in imple-
menting any appropriate revisions.
III. THE RISK CAPITAL SUBPROGRAM
Objectives
3.01      The Risk Capital Subprogram, to be executed through FOMIN, aims
to encourage and facilitate the creation or expansion of economically sound
and financially viable SMI enterprises by helping to fill the gap in the
availability of risk capital. FOMIN would be allocated approximately
Mex$400 million of Program resources of over a 3-year commitment period to
enable it to substantially increase the number and volume of its investments
in SMI enterprises. Initially, these investments would be made primarily in
the form of subscriptions to common or preferred shares, but FOMIN would also
experiment increasingly with the use of debt instruments with equity features
(e.g., subordinated and/or convertible loans) to enable it to broaden the
range of its potential clientele, design investment packages tailored to the
particular characteristics and needs of individual enterprises, and to improve
FOMIN's own income position.  As in the case of the Credit Subprogram, firms
with equity ranging between Mex$25,000 and Mex$35 million would be supported
by this subprogram for implementing investment projects that (a) involve new
productive capacity or expansion of existing capacity, or (b) represent a
relocation of productive capacity in accordance with national decentralization
policies. Most of the firms selected would be those requiring, or likely to
require, integrated support involving assistance from one or more of the other
elements of the overall Program (i.e. credit, facilities on industrial parks,
technical assistance, etc.) also.
Role, Management and Organization of FOMIN
3.02      FOMIN is a comparatively new institution that is undertaking an
important but rather difficult task in the industrial promotion field. It
was established in November 1972 as a trust fund of the Federal Government
under the administrative supervision of NAFINSA to assist in the implementation
of national plans for industrial diversification and regional development.
Its role, as specified in its operating regulations, is to help in the creation
of new SMI enterprises or the expansion or strengthening of existing ones by
subscribing up to one third of the equity capital required, and to promote
development of the capital market. Its investments are intended to be temporary
and tco be sold once the associated company achieves a satisfactory financial
position. FOMIN thus serves to bring together groups of investors, enabling
enterprises to have access to greater capital, and permitting them to operate
on a larger and more economic scale. Its participation frequently helps firms
start the transition from a closed family enterprise, in which management is



- 22 -
not specialized, to a corporation in which professional managers bring their
expertise to bear on all aspects of the firm's operations. FOMIN gives
priority in the selection of investments to projects in the less developed
regions of the country and those designed to increase employment and output,
utilize local natural resources, develop indigenous technology, address
environmental problems, or create new export opportunities. Only in
exceptional cases may FOMIN invest to help reorganize financially a firm in
difficulty. FOMIN takes active interest in the management of the firms it
invests in, and provides advice as appropriate for strengthening the financial
structure of the firms.
3.03      Responsibility for the overall direction of FOMIN is vested in its
seven-man board (called the Technical Committee). The board is chaired by the
Director General of NAFINSA and comprises high-level representatives from
NAFINSA, the Ministries of Finance, National Patrimony and Industrial Develop-
ment, and Programming and Budgeting, a representative of the Banco de Mexico,
plus two representatives from the private sector selected by the main indus-
trial associations, CONCAMIN and CANACINTRA. As appropriate, outside experts
and the Directors of FOGAIN and FIDEIN may be invited to participate in board
meetings to assist in reviewing particular investments or problems. The board
usually meets once a month to approve operating programs and budgets, set
investment policies and guidelines, consider individual investment proposals
and set conditions for FOMIN's participation, and generally oversee FOMIN's
operations.
3.04      FOMIN's day-to-day operations are managed by its Director, who is
appointed by the board. Mr. Cano, Director since 1974, has substantial
experience in industry and in the management of trust funds. He has been
delegated authority by the board to approve small investments up to Mex$500,000
after consultation with the board chairman. Reporting to the Director are a
manager responsible for the Legal and Project Appraisal departments and an
assistant manager responsible for the Portfolio Control and Investment Sales
departments and also for administrative services (see organization chart in
Annex 3, C-2). Both are qualified and experienced professionals. In August
1977 FOMIN had 49 employees, of whom 24 were professionals. Morale is high
among the relatively young but capable staff. Turnover has been low and most
staff members know their jobs well.
FOMIN's Past Operations
3.05      Resources.  To date all of FOMIN's financial resources have been
provided by the Government in the form of contributions of FOMIN's own equity
capital. FOMIN was provided with starting capital of Mex$50 million to be
used for making investments and deflaying administrative and operating costs.
Annually, FOMIN is required to submit to the Ministry of Finance for approval
an investment and operating cost budget, on the basis of which additional
capital contributions are decided. Actual contributions made to FOMIN's
capital have been rather sporadic and have not matched the budgetary requests.
FOMIN received Mex$50 million in 1973, Mex$75 million in 1974, Mex$50 million
in 1975, and Mex$25 million in 1976, giving a grand total of Mex$250 million
at year-end 1976. For 1977 an additional capital contribution of Mex$100 mil-
lion was authorized. While it is expected in the longer run that portfolio
sales and dividend receipts will provide a substantial proportion of the funds
required for new investments, thus far their contribution has not been very
significant since FOMIN is still growing and the majority of the investments
have not yet matured (see para. 3.08). Uncertainties regarding the size



- 23 -
and timing of government contributions created by the annual budgeting process
made it difficult for FOMIN to plan its future operations and inhibited its
promotional efforts. This problem would be alleviated under the Program,
since FOMIN would have the assurance that a substantial volume of resources
will be available to finance its investments over the next three years.
3.06      Investment activity.  FOMIN made a rapid and rather impetuous start
to its investment activities, approving investments totalling Mex$232.5 million
in 113 companies by June 1974, several of which never became effective.
Following the appointment of the present Director in 1974, the pace of invest-
ment slowed down while efforts were made to strengthen appraisal and follow-up
procedures and improve internal accounting. During the next 2-1/2 years,
FOMIN approved a further Mex$149 million in 33 other companies, and by year-
end 1976 had made investments totalling Mex$210 million in 81 companies (see
Annex 3, T-8). As of that date, investments in 14 companies had been sold
compLetely, two investments had been sold in part, and 3 companies in which
FOMIN invested had been liquidated. Thus, its portfolio of investments at
December 31, 1976 amounted to Mex$181.9 million invested in the shares of 64
companies. Annex 3, T-9 analyzes the sectoral distribution of 69 companies
being supervised by the Portfolio Control Department as of December 31, 1976,
which were engaged in wide range of industrial activities in many different
states. 1/ Twenty of the 69 firms were newly organized. Only one firm would
be cLassified as large, having equity capital of more than Mex$35 million
before FOMIN's investment. Of the remaining portfolio 84.6% of the investment
is in 37 medium sized companies and 8.7% in 31 small ones. By its partici-
pation in these companies FOMIN helped to mobilize additional equity invest-
ments totalling Mexll9.9 million from other shareholders and Mex$162.3 million
in credit from banks and other sources.
3.07      Investment performance.  To date FOMIN has not been able to generate
an operating surplus from its investment activities. Of the 16 investments
sold to date, including 2 partial sales, 12 have been sold at premiums averaging
17% above FOMIN's investment cost, 2 have been sold at par, and 2 at a capital
loss averaging 30%. Overall the Mex$20.6 million of investments sold have
yielded a net profit of Mex$1.05 million, equivalent to a 5% return on invest-
ments over a holding period averaging about two years. Dividends received
annually, averaging about 1% of portfolio, have not significantly increased
the return on investment. Moreover, losses of Mex$8.4 million on the three
companies that were liquidated exceeded substantially all gains from port-
folio sales and dividend receipts.
3.08      Since sales and liquidations to date represent only about 12% of
FOMIN's investments, the quality of the portfolio still held is a more
important indicator of investment performance. During 1975 and most of
1976 there had been an improvement in the results of the companies in
which FOMIN had invested (see Annex 3, T-10). At the beginning of 1975,
20 companies representing 29% of total investments were operating profit-
ably, but by September 1976 this had increased to 26 companies representing
50% of total investment. FOMIN's clients were adversely affected by the
aftermaths of devaluation and the fall in the industrial activity in
early 1977 and, despite a slight recovery, by September only 20 firms
representing 41.6% of FOMIN's investment were again operating profitably.
1/   The Portfolio Control department begins supervising firms before the
investment in it has been finalized.



- 24 -
Based on a review in September 1977 by the Portfolio Control Department,
10 firms (24% of investment) of the 19 operating at a loss (40% of invest-
ment) appear to have overcome their most serious problems and can be expected
to show profits within 1-2 years. The other 9 firms have reasonable prospects
in the medium term. The remaining 26 firms are classified as being in a
"special" situation. Of these, 17 firms, accounting for 12% of the investment
have quite serious problems and some may have to be liquidated or reorganized
under new management.  Of the remaining firms, 1 was in installation and
8 were in process of being sold for an estimated 35% premium.
3.09      Bearing in mind the generally poor performance of industry in
1975-77, the priority FOMIN gives to investments in new enterprises and
those located in less developed areas, and the fact that it is a relatively
young institution that has had to develop its experience and expertise in
the venture capital field, its investment performance to date has been
reasonably satisfactory. In its early years FOMIN adopted a highly
promotional view of its role and placed too much emphasis on the social
desirability of a project and too little on its financial viability and
prospects. Most of the investments in firms now in serious difficulty and
in the three firms liquidated at a loss were made during these early years.
Investments made more recently appear to have better prospects for having
been analyzed more thoroughly and decided on the basis of more conservative
judgements. Nevertheless, if FOMIN is to achieve its objective of maintain-
ing the value of its investment capital and earning sufficient return from
its investments to cover its administrative costs, it will need to take
some further steps to strengthen its investment practices as explained
below (paras. 3.11 and 3.12).
3.10      Overall results.  To date FOMIN's total income (which includes
dividends and capital gains on the sale of investments as well as return
on short term investment of available liquid funds and interest from sales
of investments on credit terms) has fallen substantially short of its
operating and administrative expenses (including fees charged by NAFINSA for
its personnel and other services), which have averaged about 7.5% of FOMIN's
investment portfolio (see Annex 3, T-11 and T-12). Part of the reason for
this has been that due to resource constraints in the last few years, FOMIN
has not been able grow as fast as planned, being left with a considerably
higher staff capacity than is needed to handle its current volume of opera-
tions. Administrative expenses as a proportion of FOMIN's portfolio should
decrease in the future as its operations grow. FOMIN has, however, been able
establish itself over the last few years as an effective mechanism to support
SMI enterprises in priority lines of activity through its equity participa-
tions, to help them raise significant amounts of complementary financing, and
to effect improvements in their financial structure and management.
Investment Policies and Procedures of FOMIN
3.11      Policies.  FOMIN has over the years developed a set of investment
policies that takes account of both its unique role in supplying risk capital
and the characteristics of the firms in which it invests. However, FOMIN's
past inability to promote itself actively (para. 3.05) resulted in its
dependence on the state development committees and enterprises with NAFINSA
investments for a large portion of its investment proposals, and has not
allowed FOMIN to define its investment policies in sufficiently concrete



- 25 -
terms or to achieve good diversity and selectivity in its investments. In
connection with the expected expansion in FOMIN's operations under the
proposed loan, upon the request of the Mexicans, the Bank provided the
services of a consultant to examine FOMIN's investment policies and
practices. Based on the consultant's recommendations, discussions with
the appraisal mission and its own analysis, FOMIN has recently formulated
a more concrete definition of its investment policies.
3.12      Most importantly, FOMIN has set for itself as financial goals:
(a) earning sufficient revenues in the short term to cover its admin-
istrative costs, and in the medium term to maintain the value of its equity
in constant prices; and (b) holding a diversified portfolio of investments
whose benefits accrue in both the short and long term and whose risks of
loss are compensated by possibilities of commensurate gains. In connection
with the latter, FOMIN would limit its maximum exposure (including invest-
ments through equity as well as other instruments) in a single firm to 10%
of FOMIN's equity, and its total exposure in 2 or more firms belonging to
the same industrial group to 15% of FOMIN's equity. During the loan nego-
tiations FOMIN also specified its policies concerning the kinds of firms
that FOMIN will invest in, the types and terms of its investment instruments,
and evaluation, supervision, and sales of investments. The following para-
graphs include a more detailed discussion of these policies. The most
important elements of FOMIN's policies, namely those concerning its financial
goals mentioned above and the use of new investment instruments (para. 3.13),
have recently been incorporated into FOMIN's operating regulations through
appropriate modifications. Under the proposed loan, any further changes in
the operating regulations would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
3.13      Investment instruments.  Until this year FOMIN's investments were
virtually all in the form of purchasing new issues of common stock of its
investee enterprises. Partly as a result of technical assistance provided
during project preparation, FOMIN has recently begun using preferred stock
as well. 1/ Institutions making risk capital investment in other countries
even with well-developed equity markets, have found it advantageous to use
a wide variety of subordinated and convertible debt instruments in addition
to common and preferred shares. Common stock has the disadvantage that it
exposes FOMIN to the full risks of loss but, in part because of the limited
market for shares of SMI enterprises, FOMIN is not usually able to gain
commensurately when the firm is successful. Preferred stock can help FOMIN
to a minimum return and to negotiate a better selling price but has the
disadvantage to the firm that preferred dividends paid are not tax deductible.
3.14      Given the current state of the Mexican capital market, it probably
would not be possible to carry out FOMIN's new investment policy without extend-
ing the range of investment instruments beyond common and preferred shares.
Therefore, FOMIN plans to start using subordinated and convertible loans experi-
mentally and, if successful, extend their use to a substantial portion of its
operations. These new instruments would permit FOMIN to earn a higher and
more certain current income from its portfolio as well as negotiate better
terms of sale. As FOMIN's staff has no experience in using these instruments,
its Director has requested Bank and IFC assistance in arranging training for
several of its staff members. The needed training would be made available
under the proposed Program.
1/   In cases of exceptional urgency, FOMIN can make a temporary loan in
anticipation of its investment.



- 26 -
3.15      Appraisal.  All investments above Mex$50,000 undergo FOMIN's thorough
appraisal procedure which analyzes satisfactorily the technical and financial
characteristics of the project FOMIN's investment will help finance. Smaller
investments have a simplified treatment which is adequate in the circumstances.
The appraisal, however, needs to be strengthened in assessing: (a) the pros-
pects of the investment enterprise and the business and administrative abilities
of its management; and (b) the desirability of the investment from FOMIN's
(rather than all shareholders') point of view. The latter point will become
increasingly important as more investments will be undertaken using instru-
ments other than common stock. FOMIN would also have to evaluate more real-
istically future dividend and interest paying ability and the conditions
of disinvestment, in order to decide which investment instrument is the most
appropriate. The management is aware of these shortcomings and is taking
steps to correct them. FOMIN has in the past done little economic analysis
of its projects beyond ensuring that the project falls within one of the
priorities established by the Technical Committee. In the future, FOMIN would
calculate an economic rate of return on all investments using more than
US$150,000 in Bank funds, that is, on about half of its future operations
(para. 6.10).
3.16      FOMIN also intends to concentrate the evaluation process on projects
with a good chance of being implemented if approved. In the past some projects
have been evaluated too early, before definite sponsors were found. In addition,
FOMIN would review carefully the conditions that are attached to approval of
projects, since this is another cause of approved investments not becoming
effective quickly. Strengthening appraisals in these ways will require a closer
coordination between the Evaluation Department and the Portfolio Control and
Sales Departments. At present the Evaluation Department tends to work in
isolation and thereby lacks sufficient feed-back from closely observing firms
it has evaluated.
3.17      Supervision.  FOMIN supervises its investments by appointing at
least one voting member of the board and a shareholders' representative 1/
in each firm in which it invests. The board member is often the local
representative of NAFINSA but the shareholder representative is invariably
from the Portfolio Control Department. This practice enables FOMIN to keep
abreast of developments within the investment enterprise. Although,
as a minority shareholder, FOMIN cannot always effect changes to correct
problems it has detected, it has at times, in concert with other stock-
holders, helped bring about basic changes in the management of a firm in
difficulty.
3.18      Disbursement and procurement.  FOMIN's disbursement procedures
ensure that its resources are applied to the purposes intended. After the
first 20% of FOMIN's investment is disbursed when the firm has met all the
formal conditions set by FOMIN, the remainder is disbursed against a timetable
agreed with the firm. This timetable normally implies that FOMIN's subscrip-
tions are made pari passu with or slightly later than those of the other
shareholders. Regardless of timing, it is not feasible, in general, to assign
specific items to the contribution of different shareholders in an equity
investment. The Program, therefore, would reimburse FOMIN's disbursements
1/   It is common practice in Mexican corporations for minority shareholders
to name a shareholder representative (comisario) to monitor the firm's
operation and protect the minority's interests.



- 27 -
for qualifying investments towards purchases of fixed assets and related
permanent working capital against proof of acquisition of the shares or other
investment instrument, and a description of the project including a list of
goods and expenditure schedules (para. 6.12). Investments made for debt
substitution would not be financed under the Program.
3.19      FOMIN has not paid sufficient attention in the past to procurement
questions related to its projects, but now recognizes that this practice is
inadequate for a minority shareholder. FOMIN is therefore planning to
estabLish procedures for ensuring the technical adequacy and price reason-
ableness of items procured in all projects financed by it in the future.
3.20      Sales and disinvestment.  As a temporary investor FOMIN attempts
to turn over its portfolio as conditions permit. Although FOMIN seeks to
broaden stock ownership by selling its shares to outside investors, because
of the underdeveloped state of the capital market, it often has had little
alternative but to resell its investments to majority stockholders. In
principle, FOMIN sells its stock when the firm has overcome its difficul-
ties and is operating profitably, but is prepared to sell earlier at the
initiation of the other shareholders. In negotiating the sale price it
has taken the book value of the shares as a starting point, usually obtaining
a small premium. A substantial portion of its sales has been on credit terms
of 2-3 years.
3.21      The proposed use of new investment instruments should enable FOMIN
to realize its investments on more favorable terms by using common stock
purchase primarily in those cases where the prospects of the firm and the
eventual terms of sale appear particularly favorable. FOMIN would in the
future attempt to negotiate sales and disinvestment conditions that would
allow it to meet its financial goals (para. 3.12). Its asking price for
common stock would be based on the firm's expected earnings as well as the
shares' book value and the yield to FOMIN of their sale.
3.22      Accounting procedures and audit.  Until 1974 FOMIN had no independent
accounting system, its accounts being kept by NAFINSA on a "fund basis". This
did not separate current from capital income (and expenditure), and was inade-
quate for judging FOMIN's performance. The situation has improved since FOMIN
began to keep its own accounts. However, FOMIN adopted the practice of account-
ing for stock dividends received as income. Although this practice is often
used in Latin America, it is not in line with the generally accepted accounting
principles, and could lead to substantial overstatement of income. On the
balance sheet, investments are adjusted taking into account changes in retained
earnings (including retained earnings converted into shares through stock
dividends) and reevaluation of the fixed assets.
3.23      In 1976, in preparation for the proposed loan, FOMIN contracted
an external audit for the first time. The firm, Despacho Garcia Coronado,
S. C., a reputable financial auditor, objected to FOMIN's treatment of stock
dividends and other minor matters which were corrected in the 1976 audited
financial statements. Agreement that FOMIN would continue to be audited by
reputable firms according to accepted accounting principles was obtained
at negotiations (para. 6.13). The 1977 audit also would include a detailed
reconciliation of FOMIN's operational and financial statistics and would
recommend a system for maintaining consistency between the two.



- 28 -
Operational and Financial Projections and Resource Needs
3.24      Recent changes in the Mexican economy are creating new needs for
FOMIN's services. Tight liquidity in the banking system and unbalanced
liability structures of manay firms are making them increasingly interested in
FOMIN's equity participations and/or subordinated and convertible debt invest-
ments. 1/ For example, between February and August 1977, FOMIN received 36
applications and, although about half were fairly preliminary, 17 of them
indicated a demand for Mex$110.4 million, which is more than FOMIN would be
able to invest this year. With the establishment of the Program, effective
demand for FOMIN investments should increase substantially. Closer coordi-
nation with the Credit and other subprograms should lead almost immediately
to more firms coming to FOMIN from these sources. NAFINSA's industrial
extension agents would also promote FOMIN's investments with firms that
FOMIN could not reach directly. Moreover, by making available a specific
volume of investment funds over a 3-year period, the Program would enable
FOMIN to undertake systematic promotion, which it has not been able to do in
the past because of uncertainties in the annual budgeting cycle.
3.25      Overall, if resources are not a major constraining factactor, FOMIN's
investments per year can be expected to grow rapidly over the next few years.
The number of projects studied in depth is expected to rise from about 20
during 1977 to an average of about 50 a year during 1978-81; correspondingly,
the value of FOMIN's investments would more than triple in real terms during
1977-81, reaching a level of about Mex$300 million a year by 1981. To support
this level of operations, FOMIN would need total equity contributions of about
Mex$800 million (in 1977 pesos) during 1978-81 (see Annex 3, T-13).  Of this,
the Government can be expected to contribute up to about Mex$400 million in
the absence of the Program, indicating a need for additional financing of
an equal amount. Program resources including the Bank loan would fill this
resource need.
3.26      More detailed financial projections of FOMIN's operations, including
the use of the Mex$400 million of Program resources, and the assumptions
used are presented in Annex 3, T-14 and T-15. However, they are only indi-
cative since a large degree of uncertainty is inevitable in projecting opera-
tions of an equity fund, especially over a period when it plans to modify its
investment policies and expand the volume of its operations substantially.
To highlight FOMIN's medium-term objective of maintaining the real value
of its equity, the projections are presented in terms of 1977 pesos.
3.27      As a result of the rise in its operations, FOMIN's investment port-
folio, comprised of both stocks and new investment instruments, would rise
from an estimated Mex$280 million in 1977 to almost Mex$930 million by 1981.
The amount of medium-term loans resulting from term sales of the investment
portfolio would also rise substantially to just over Mex$100 million by 1981.
Program resources would finance nearly half of FOMIN's investments during
1978-81. FOMIN would also step up sales of its investments to generate
additional resources for new investments. FOMIN's total equity would stand at
about Mex$1,150 million by 1981. After an initial adjustment period, income
would start to rise sharply in 1979 as a result of the maturation of FOMIN's
1/   Although FOMIN must still overcome the reluctance of many private
enterprises to accept participation of what they view as a government
agency.



- 29 -
investment portfolio, more selective investments that would be possible under
conditions of high demand, and the use of the new instruments. Reflecting
FOMIN's current excess capacity to appraise projects, little real increase
would occur in administrative expenses. These developments would allow FOMIN
to be making profits in nominal terms by 1979-80 and in real terms by 1981.
In overall operational terms, FOMIN would over the next few years be able to
consolidate its position as an effective tool to help create and btrengthen
SMI enterprises engaged in priority industrial activities, exert a healthy
influence on their management and financial structures, and help them mobilize
domestic and foreign resources complementary to FOMIN's own financing.
IV. THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SUBPROGRAM
Objectives
4.01      The Industrial Estates Subprogram would be executed through FIDEIN
and would introduce some new services designed to assist SMI to establish
themselves on, or relocate to, one of FIDEIN's industrial estates. FIDEIN
would receive resources under the Program to enable it to (a) finance directly
or through loans to the 'Fideicomisos Especiales' (the legal entities running
the individual estates) the construction of small, standard factory buildings
on one of the industrial estates for lease to SMI enterprises, and the
construction and lease of common facilities to provide services to groups of
enterprises on the estates (for example, specialized water treatment plants,
maintenance and repair shops, and warehousing); (b) loans to equipment leasing
agencies approved by FIDEIN for leasing of equipment to SMI enterprises.
Total Program resources of about Mex$200 million (in constant 1977 pesos) are
contemplated for this subprogram. SMI enterprises with equity capital of up
to Mex$35.0 million would be eligible for financing.
Institutional Background
4.02      FIDEIN was established in 1970 as a government trust fund admin-
istered by NAFINSA to plan, promote and help implement a national system of
industrial estates, as part of the Government's strategy to promote decentral-
ization of industry. The estates promoted by FIDEIN cater to industrial enter-
prises of all sizes and types, although very large and natural resource based
industries are generally excluded. Specifically, FIDEIN is authorized to
promote three types of facilities falling under the general heading of indus-
trial estates:  "parques industriales" (industrial parks), which provide sites
and infrastructure facilities such as water, power and sewage disposal;
"ciudades industriales" (industrial cities), in which an industrial park
with the above facilities is supplemented by housing, commercial sections and
social infrastructure (schools, hospitals, recreational facilities, etc.);
and "conjuntos industriales", which are centers offering common service faci-
lities (for example, central purchasing and warehousing) to groups of SMI
enterprises engaged in similar or complementary activities and located on the
same industrial estate or close to it. Through a 1972 Decree the Government
broadened the activities authorized for FIDEIN to include promotion of
"centros comerciales" (commercial centers), which may comprise physical
facilities for warehousing, retail and wholesale trade, general business
offices and, in some cases, recreational centers aimed at the tourist market.



- 30 -
4.03      Thus far FIDEIN's activities have been concentrated mainly on
industrial parks and cities. 1/ Based on detailed studies conducted by
Secretaria de Asentamiento Humano y Obras Publicas (SAHOP) and FIDEIN, 20
locations had been approved by the Government by mid-1977 for the establish-
ment of industrial parks or cities, taking into account the Government's
regional and sectoral priorities, and the demand for the services and finan-
cial viability of the estates. The first stage of construction has been
completed at 13 of these locations (see Annex 3, T-22 and C-4 for the loca-
tions), and construction at the other locations is in progress. To date
FIDEIN has been involved in the promotion of only one commercial center
(at Mexicali) and work on establishment of common service centers is still
only at a planning stage.
Process of Creating and Operating Industrial Estates
4.04      During the initial stages of planning, design and construction of
the estates, for which SAHOP has been assigned the overall responsibility,
FIDEIN works in close cooperation with SAHOP, particularly in selecting the
locations of the industrial estates and carrying out the financial and market
feasibility studies of the projects. Once the location of an industrial
estate (or commercial center) is approved by the Government, SAHOP typically
acquires a site of about 500 ha. at the location and, in consultation with
FIDEIN and the local authorities, prepares overall layouts for the site.
It then develops, as part of the initial phase of the estate development,
about 20 ha. of the site including leveling, grading, laying access roads,
and installing power, water and sewage disposal facilities. The entire site
and other assets are then turned over to a local "Fideicomiso Especial," a
legal entity which thereafter owns and manages the estate and is responsible
for all its future expansions.
4.05      The decentralized Fideicomisos Especiales 2/ have considerable
autonomy in their day-to-day operations, but are subject to monitoring and
overall coordination by FIDEIN, NAFINSA's agent in administering the
Fideicomisos. FIDEIN provides the Fideicomisos with assistance and advice
on a continuing basis covering a number of aspects of their ongoing opera-
tions such as: promotion and marketing of their lots; accounting and finan-
cial control including preparation of annual budgets and financial statements;
eliciting the cooperation of the state government concerned, industry asso-
ciations and other local bodies; and administrative and legal matters such
as design of standard legal contracts for agreements with client enterprises
and preparation of administrative and operational manuals. FIDEIN has also
been providing small amounts of short term credits (akin to an overdraft
facility) to the Fideicomisos to help smooth variations in their cash posi-
tion. In the future, FIDEIN is also expected to assist the Fideicomisos in
planning and organizing common service centers, where appropriate, and in
providing the clients with any technical support and advice required in
that connection. Finally, FIDEIN provides advice to the relevant govern-
ment agencies, including the Ministries of Finance and of National Patrimony
and Industrial Development, on matters such as allocation of budgetary and
other resources to the Fideicomisos.
1/   In most cases, implementation of the projects starts with the establish-
ment of an industrial park; but all of them are expected to develop
eventually into industrial cities.
2/   Henceforth referred to only as "Fideicomisos".



- 31 -
4.06      Assets of a newly created Fideicomiso include the value of undevel-
oped land contributed as equity by the state government, the value of land
development, preinvestment studies and assistance through FIDEIN provided as
equity by the Federal Government, and, in some cases, land contributed by
the municipality or other local bodies in exchange for equity or a note issued
by the Fideicomiso. Additional funds required for ongoing land development
and working capital are obtained from banks using the real assets of the
Fideicomiso as collateral and to a limited extent from FIDEIN in the form of
overdrafts.
Organization and Staffing of FIDEIN and the Fideicomisos
4.07      The highest decision making body of FIDEIN is its Technical Committee,
which is chaired by the Secretary of SAHOP and also includes representatives of
NAFINSA, FIDEIN, the National Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the National
Workers' Housing Fund (INFONAVIT) and the relevant ministries. 1/ Meetings
of the Committee are arranged whenever important policy, administrative or other
matters affecting FIDEIN arise.
4.08      FIDEIN cucrently has a total professional staff of 15 2/ headed by
its General Manager, and is divided among five departments organized by
function. An organization chart of FIDEIN is included in Annex 3, C-3.
FIDEIN's staff appears adequately qualified and well motivated. Mr. Avendano,
the General Manager, provides able leadership for the staff, and has recently
been devoting particular attention to ways of further improving and diver-
sifying FIDEIN's institutional capabilities and the services offered by it.
4.09      Each individual Fideicomiso is directed by its own Technical Committee,
which is chaired by the Governor of the state in which the estate is located.
Each Committee also includes representatives of SAHOP, FIDEIN, NAFINSA, the
Ministries of Finance, and of National Patrimony and Industrial Development,
and, in some cases, representativs of the municipal authority and other local
or national bodies that may own part of the Fideicomiso's assets. The State
Governor and the representatives of SAHOP and FIDEIN tend to be the most active
members of the Technical Committees of the Fideicomisos.
4.10      The staff of an individual Fideicomiso typically consists of a
manager, and about three other staff members including an accountant and
a manager of sales and promotion. Although the managers of the Fideicomisos
are under the formal direction of their respective Technical Committees,
they work closely with FIDEIN's General Manager and seek FIDEIN's assistance
on a variety of matters (para. 4.05). FIDEIN also assists the individual
Technical Committees in selecting the managers and other staff of the
Fideicomisos and later orienting them towards the industrial estates program.
1/   Namely the Ministries of Finance, National Patrimony and Industrial
Development, Agriculture, and Programming and Budgeting. The Directors
of FOGAIN and FOMIN are also invited to attend Technical Committee
meetings to improve coordination among FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN.
2/   Including 4 accountants, 3 economists, 2 business administrators,
2 industrial engineers, 1 civil engineer, 1 architect, 1 lawyer and
I public relations specialist.



- 32 -
Operating and Financial Performance to Date
4.11      By mid-1977, first stages of industrial parks/cities in 13 of the
20 approved locations were fully operational and had been turned over to their
respective Fideicomisos; 7 others currently under construction are expected to
become operational by the end of 1978. To date some 8,500 ha. have been acquired
and more than 6,000 ha already transferred to the individual Fideicomisos.
Annex 3, T-16 presents salient data as of mid-1977 on land sales, progress on
construction, and the investment and employment characteristics of the occupant
industries at each of the 13 operating Fideicomisos. Thus far, lots totalling
more than 400 ha have been sold to about 600 firms and negotiations are under
way for the sale of an additional 100 ha of lots. The program is clearly
gaining momentum, and sales are expected to accelerate in the near future.
4.12      Analysis of the size distribution of investments on the estates
of a sample of 223 firms that purchased lots in FIDEIN's industrial estates
indicates that a majority of the firms are likely to fall within the SMI
category, and a significant proportion of these would be "small" under the
Program's definition. Estate-based projects have been fairly labor intensive,
with capital investment per incremental job estimated to be of the order
of about US$13,000 equivalent (in 1977 prices). In selecting the occupant
industries of the estates, the Fideicomisos ensure that they are consistent
wiLh the spatial, sectoral and environmental priorities of the region they are
located in.
4.13      Annex 3, T-17 presents summarized balance sheet data for FIDEIN and
for all the Fideicomisos together (consolidated) as at year-end 1974. FIDEIN's
own total assets are relatively small, reflecting its current role of primarily
a promotional and advisory institution. The balance sheets of the Fideicomisos
reflect their strong equity position based on government contributions, indica-
ting that they can incur substantial additional debt obligations as needed for
future expansion of their activities. By the end of 1976, the federal and
state governments had invested about Mex$560 million 1/ in acquiring and
developing land, at a cost of about Mex$765,000/ha which in nominal terms
exceeds the average selling price (about Mex$700,000 per ha.) of the land sold
to date. Taking into account the administrative costs of FIDEIN and the
Fideicomisos, net operating losses on sales would be about 11%. However,
FIDEIN considers the losses as transitory and normal in the early stages of
mounting a program of this nature since estate land may have to be sold at a
discount in order to attract the initial group of enterprises. The Fideicomisos
are currently adjusting the selling prices of land upward to levels more closely
comparable to market prices and are expected to generate appropriately positive
margins on most of their future land sales.
Evaluation of the Industrial Estates Development
4.14      After a slow start, the national industrial estates program is
beginning to show the positive results anticipated at its inception. Land
sales as well as the resultant industrial investment and job creation are
1/   Including about Mex$36 million contributed by the state governments in
the form of undeveloped land, Mex$452 million invested by the Federal
Government through SAHOP for developing the land, and an additional
Mex$78 million channeled through FIDEIN by the Federal Government.



- 33 -
accelerating, and the estates are becoming increasingly popular with SMI enter-
prises. The FIDEIN-Fideicomiso two-tier structure has proved to be an effective
mecharnism, and has successfully enlisted and integrated the support of central
and state governments as well as the private sector. As the staff of FIDEIN
and the Fideicomisos gain more experience in the planning, promotion and
administration of the industrial estates, the program's effectiveness can be
expected to increase further. Rather than start additional industrial estates
at new locations, FIDEIN and the Government intend to focus their efforts over
the next two years on completing and consolidating the work started on the
locations already approved (see para. 1.19) and on supporting the growth of
the individual Fideicomisos into viable institutions catering effectively to
the needs of local industrial enterprises. The proposed improvement and
diversification of services to the occupant SMI enterprises contemplated under
the Industrial Estates Subprogram is consistent with this strategy.
4.15      While the recent performance is encouraging, a much higher rate
of estate land sales and of factory construction must be achieved if this
program is to have a significant long-term effect on industrial decentraliza-
tion. To date, FIDEIN and the Fideicomisos have been able to provide term
financing only for sale of the land. Also, the data of Annex 3, T-16 indicate
a serious lag in factory construction. 1/ Investigations in the field by the
appraisal mission confirmed FIDEIN's own belief that the key constraint the
estates' development has been the lack of long-term credit needed by SMI
companies to finance building construction. The smaller firms find it
particularly difficult to obtain the amounts and terms of financing needed to
acquire suitable physical facilities.
Description of the Subprogram
4.16      The major component of the Industrial Estates Subprogram would be
oriented towards helping SMI enterprises locating on the estates overcome
the credit constraint discussed above through financing of the construc-
tion of small factory buildings that would be offered for sale, straight
rentaL or lease with option to purchase on suitable terms. Two smaller
experimental components would provide additional services to help the compara-
tively smaller client enterprises. These would provide: common service
facilities to groups of small enterprises engaged in similar or complementary
production activities to increase accessibility and reduce unit costs of
these services; and facilities for leasing or hire-purchase of industrial
equipment, to help small enterprises overcome the credit constraint in finan-
cing their equipment needs. All the resources the Industrial Estates Sub-
program would be channelled through FIDEIN, which would use them over a period
of about four years to finance the above three components. The details of the
three components, which are based on the expected demand for the facilities,
are given below:
(a) Factory buildings. Construction of about 80 standard factory
buildings (expected to range in size from 600 to 2,000 sq. m.)
to be offered for sale, rental or lease with option to buy.
The building design would be modular to facilitate expansion
by adding bays as needed. The number and sizes of buildings
1/ C1f the 589 firms that purchased lots, only 83 were operating and
92 were under construction as of mid-1977.



- 34 -
constructed at each estate would vary depending on effective
demand as well as the implementation capabilities of the local
Fideicomiso. While as many as 6 or 8 units may be built
at well-established estates, only I or 2 are expected at
the newer estates. The smaller factory buildings would be
offered for single occupancy and the larger buildings would
be subdivisible internally to provide working areas (say up to
500 sq. m.) for rental to smaller firms. Total cost of this
component is estimated at about Mex$130 million in constant
1977 prices. About 5,000 workers are expected to be employed
by SMI enterprises occupying these facilities.
(b)  Common service facilities.  Construction of common service
facilities at two, and possibly three, locations is contemplated,
as determined by FIDEIN based on the demand for such services
and their financial and economic viability. 1/ Typical common
services may include one or more of: maintenance and repair
shop; central warehousing, quality control and material testing
centers; worker training centers; and offices including staff
for bulk purchase of raw materials and assistance/advice
in accounting, marketing and promotion.
(c)  Equipment leasing.  Up to Mex$10 million of Program resources
would be channelled to finance equipment leases to eligible
SMI enterprises located on the industrial estates. The leases
would either offer the client enterprise a purchase option
(perhaps in the case of general purpose equipment such as
trucks and simple machine tools) or require purchase as
mandatory before the expiration of the lease contract
(particularly in the case of specialized equipment not easily
usable by other firms). About 40-60 equipment leases are
expected to be financed through this component.
Execution Schedule and Cost Estimates
4.17      Annex 3, T-18 shows the projected schedule of the construction
of the factory buildings and common service facilities, and equipment
leasing. Annex 3, T-19 shows the corresponding cost estimates. As shown
in the projections, construction of factory buildings is expected to proceed
relatively uniformly throughout 1978-82, while construction of common
service facilities and equipment leasing is not expected to start until 1979
because of the need to make additional administrative arrangements and to
organize groups of similar enterprises.
Financing Arrangements
4.18      FIDEIN would promote, receive and evaluate applications from the
individual Fideicomisos and from equipment leasing agencies for financing of
1/   FIDEIN has drawn up a list of about 8 potential locations.  The
most promising among them appear to be: Aguas Calientes and Merida for
two groups of up to 50 clothing manufacturers; Durango for a group of
20 woodworking firms; and Leon for some 70 small shoe factories.



- 35 -
to support SMI enterprises as discussed above. FIDEIN's evaluation would
cover the administrative and financial impact of the subprojects on the client
enterprises supported by them, their potential decentralization, employment
and other economic effects in line with the overall objectives of the Program,
(para. 1.30) as well as the impact of the proposed sale/lease projects on
the financial position and profitability of the concerned Fideicomiso.
4.19      FIDEIN would use Program resources to finance approved subprojects
through loans on appropriate terms to the Fideicomisos for construction of the
factory buildings and common service centers, and to the leasing companies 1/
for purchase of the equipment to be leased. However, in cases where the local
Fideicomiso lacks the necessary financial or administrative capability, FIDEIN
would be prepared to finance and administer the factory buildings and common
service centers subprojects directly. The average maturity of the loans to
the Fideicomisos for construction of factory buildings and common service
facilities is expected to be 12 years (maximum 15 years as specified in the
banking legislation) including 2 years' grace, while loans for equipment
leasing would have maturities of about 5 years on average including grace
periods of 6 months to 1 year; the Fideicomisos and the leasing companies
would be expected to use the financing to provide lease/sale contracts covering
similar periods (after allowing for construction time) to their client companies.
4.20      Client enterprises would be offered the buildings and equipment,
either (a) on a straight rental basis, with the rent being reviewed and adjusted
periodically to take into account effects of inflation and other factors, or
(b) on a rental with option to purchase the building or equipment at any time
during the lease period at a price equal to its estimated replacement value
minus a proportion of the rent already paid by the enterprises. The estimate
of the replacement value used under the second arrangement would be arrived
at based either on the appraised market value at the time of sale, or on
the initial cost of the facilities adjusted for inflation using an agreed-
upon formula. 2/ It is expected that the straight rental arrangement would
be used for most standard factory buildings that are subdivided into smaller
1/   Only leasing companies approved by FIDEIN would be used for channelling
the equipment leasing component. The leasing company most often ued
for this purpose is likely to be Arrendadora Internacional, which is a
subsidiary of Banco Internacional, S.A., which in turn is majority
owned by NAFINSA. Arrendadora Internacional is one of the larger and
better known institutions in Mexico engaged in equipment leasing; as
of June 30, 1977, it had a total portfolio of lease contracts (value
of lease payments due until the end of the contract period) of about
Mex$380 million (about US$16.7 million). During 1976/77, 579 new
rental contracts totalling about Mex$150 million (about US$6.6 million)
were effected, implying an average value of about US$11,400 per lease
contract.
2/   Experience in other countries including the US indicates that rents
under the second arrangement should be 15-20% higher than under the
first to compensate for the restriction on the owner's freedom to sell
or mortgage the asset.



- 36 -
bays for the use of small enterprises, while the rental with option to
purchase would be the more common arrangement in all other cases. The legal,
tax and insurance ramifications would differ depending on the particular
arrangement chosen, and would be taken into account by FIDEIN in designing
the standard contract forms. The common service facilities may be offered
under the either one of the above arrangements to cooperatives of the
respective groups of SMI enterprises, or to other SMI enterprises willing
to provide such services on the estates at a reasonable charge to the users.
4.21      FIDEIN would onlend Program funds to the Fideicomisos and the
equipment leasing agencies at a rate similar to that charged by FOGAIN to its
intermediaries. The Fideicomisos and the leasing agencies would be required
to set rents and/or purchase prices at a level that would enable them to cover
their financial and administrative costs and recover the real values of the
capital invested. This is expected to result in imputed interest rates from
the sale/lease contracts at least equal to the interest rates paid by final
borrowers on credit channelled through FOGAIN. These arrangements and under-
standings about the interest rates and rental contracts have been confirmed
during negotiations.
Financial Projections
4.22      Annex 3, T-20 presents projections of the revenue build-up, net
income and cash flow of the Fideicomisos from the construction and lease of
factory buildings, using assumptions consistent with the above discussion.
They also assume that factory buildings are financed entirely by FIDEIN loans
to the Fideicomisos, with the value of the occupied land representing the
Fideicomisos' participation (equity), and that three quarters of the client
enterprises exercise the purchase option for buildings (generally in about
the fifth year of the lease). The projections show large surplus cash inflows
from operations during the middle years (1983-86) of the projection period, as
is typical for industrial estate projects with high sales components. When
financing flows are also included, net cash deficits begin to show in 1987,
but decline gradually as debt service obligations decline. From 1994 on, when
the FIDEIN loans would be completely amortized, cash surpluses are once again
achieved. The surpluses generated in the earlier years should be adequate
to cover the deficits during 1987-93. However, to ensure adequate provision
for debt service, each Fideicomiso would have to retain sufficient portions
of its earned surplus to cover the deficits expected in later years; any
additional cash surpluses could be reinvested in additional buildings.
Organizational and Other Requirements
4.23      FIDEIN would have to expand its role and capabilities substantially
in order to implement the Industrial Estates Subprogram along the above lines.
In effect, FIDEIN would have to convert itself from a primarily promotional
and advisory trust fund to a specialized DFC-type institution capable of
evaluation, administration and supervision of medium-term loans to the
Fideicomisos and leasing companies. FIDEIN's technical capabilities to assist
the Fideicomisos would have to expand, particularly in regard to: preparation
of standard factory designs appropriate to the needs of various types of SMI
enterprises; financial, economic and technical evaluation of the subprojects;
preparation of standard lease/sale contract forms; and monitoring of subproject
execution including procurement of civil works contracts and equipment, construc-
tion schedules, and progress in leasing or sale of the facilities.



- 37 -
4.24      FIDEIN has already made the appropriate modifications in its operating
regulations in order to facilitate its development into a financing trust fund
along the above lines. During loan negotiations FIDEIN confirmed that it
would expand its professional staff as necessary for implementing this Sub-
program, and that it would prepare an "operations manual" as an annex to its
operating regulations, specifying in detail the types of operations it would
finance, maximum amounts and maturities of its financing, and the criteria to
be applied in the evaluation of subprojects and in designing the leasing
contracts of the Fideicomisos and the leasing companies. The specifications
in FIDEIN's operations manaual would be consistent with the financing arrange-
ments discussed in paragraphs 4.18 to 4.21. Any subsequent changes in FIDEIN's
operating regulations would have to be acceptable to the Bank and FIDEIN, in
cooperation with the Secretariat of the overall Program, would also prepare
and submit to the Bank prior to the end of 1978, a procedures manual describing
the detailed procedures for promotion, selection, evaluation and follow-up of
the subprojects under the Industrial Estates Subprogram.
V. OVERALL PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND THE TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE SUBPROGRAM
5.01      To provide the necessary mechanism for implementing the overall
Program, NAFINSA has recently extablished a high level Coordinating Committee
under the chairmanship of the Director General of NAFINSA, which will be
assisted by a small Secretariat of permanent staff responsible for carrying
out the day-to-day activities of the Program. The Secretariat will also be
responsible for executing the Technical Assistance Subprogram and in this
connection, will cooperate as necessary with CENAPRO, IMIT, INFOTEC and other
specialized institutions. This Subprogram would involve (i) creation of a
corps of industrial extension agents based mainly at NAFINSA's 15 regional
offices; (ii) support to and cooperation with the specialized technical
assistance institutions to help them develop services better oriented towards
the needs of SMI and to promote such services among SMI enterprises; and (iii)
provision of term credit by FONEP to help SMI firms finance preinvestment
studies and technical assistance contracted from consultants or specialized
institutions. It would also serve to integrate and promote the operations of
the other subprograms designed to provide additional resources to SMI firms.
SMI firms throughout Mexico would be eligible to receive technical assistance
support, but priority would be given in deployment of extension agents and in
the strengthening of the specialized institutions, to the smaller enterprises,
firms located outside Mexico City and those involved in subsectors where SMI
enterprises can be expected to operate efficiently and compete with larger
enterprises.
The Coordinating Committee and Secretariat
5.02      The Program Coordinating Committee comprises, in addition to the
Director General of NAFINSA, the heads of the main participating trust funds
and technical assistance institutions, and representatives of the Ministries
of Finance and of National Property and Industrial Development, and of
Banco de Mexico. The duties and responsibilities of the Committee include
(a) setting the policies and priorities for Program operations and the use
of Program resources; (b) reviewing subproject eligibility for financing



- 38 -
under the Program; (c) coordinating the activities of various participating
institutions and encouraging desirable improvements in their operations in
line with Program objectives; (d) monitoring the success of the more experi-
mental aspects and making appropriate adjustments; and (e) analyzing the
impact on SMI of national programs and policies for industrial development
and making proposals to the relevant government departments for desirable
modifications. During the initial stages, the Committee would also oversee
and ensure the timely execution of several detailed tasks that need to be
completed before all aspects of the Program can be successfully implemented,
including the recruitment and training of the industrial extension agents,
and the preparation of manuals and procedures for implementing the various
subprograms. In discharging its responsibilities the Committee will be
assisted by the Secretariat, whose full time technical staff under the overall
direction of a Technical Secretary will manage the day-to-day operations of
the Program. During the loan negotiations the Mexican delegation confirmed
that the Coordinating Committee and the Secretariat will remain in existence
and continue to carry out their functions as needed for the purposes of the
Program.
5.03      NAFINSA has prepared proposals for the organization and staffing of
the Secretariat and the budget for the first three years of Program operations.
Under these proposals, which have already been reviewed and approved by the
Coordinating Committee, the Secretariat would include 15-25 qualified profes-
sionals for the Secretariat, divided among four subdepartments, responsible
respectively for Program financing and operations, technical assistance,
promotion and subprogram operations, and Program evaluation and policy review.
The first subdepartment would be responsible for the control of subproject
financing requests and disbursements, preparation of financial statements
and statistics, and liaison with the Bank and other financing sources. The
second subdepartment would be responsible for recruitment, training and
operational control of the corps of extension agents, liaison with specialized
technical assistance agencies and FONEP, and preparation and dissemination
of promotional materials and technical assistance aids. The third would be
responsible for the review of financing applications under the various sub-
programs, the preparation of procedures manuals, and liaison with, and
the provision of operational assistance to FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN. The
last subdepartment would be responsible for evaluation of the Program's
operations in relation to its objectives and recommendations for future
changes in policies and procedures.
5.04      NAFINSA has already recruited well-qualified and motivated pro-
fessionals for some of the senior positions of the Secretariat, including the
Technical Secretary, who participated in the loan negotiations. During the
negotiations NAFINSA confirmed that 12 of the Secretariat's professional staff
would be recruited during 1978, with about 10 more expected to be recruited in
the following year. These staff would be given a special training course
comprising about three weeks of orientation to the Program's objectives and
operational details and the activities of each of the participating institu-
tions, and a 2-month course to be organized by CENAPRO on all aspects of the
operations and needs of SMI enterprises in Mexico. About 5 staff members of
the Secretariat are also expected to visit (for 4-6 weeks) other countries to
study alternative mechanisms for technical assistance and industrial extension
service. The training of the first group of the Secretariat's technical staff
is expected to be completed by the end of June 1978. Through an official



- 39 -
letter as a sequel to loan negotiations NAFINSA submitted to the Bank a
comprehensive Project Implementation Document including a detailed description
of all components of the Program, and a plan and timetable for completing all
outstanding tasks required before the Technical Assistance Subprogram as well
as the other Subprograms can be implemented. This includes, for example, the
preparation of manuals specifying the detailed procedures to be followed for
implementing each Subprogram. These arrangements are adequate to ensure the
timely execution of all the tasks required in the initial stages of the
Program's implementation.
Industrial Extension Agents
5.05      The most important new development under the Technical Assistance
Subprogram would be the creation of a corps of industrial extension agents,
which would serve as the arm of the Program in reaching the smaller enter-
prices within the SMI sector. The role of the extension agents would be to
(a) make small industrialists aware of the sources of financial assistance
available under the other subprograms and help them with the mechanics of
requesting support; (b) provide directly some basic technical assistance, for
example, basic diagnostic services related to accounting, markets, etc., and
help in preparation of financial statements; and (c) help the enterprises in
identifying any further technical assistance needed and in obtaining it from
one of the specialized technical assistance institutions cooperating in this
Subprogram.
5.06      Some 40-50 extension agents are expected to be recruited during
the 3-year period, starting with about 20 during the first year covering the
first phase of the Program. Typically, they would have an engineering,
accounting or business administration background, with some previous work
experience with small firms. In order to provide the extension agents with
the necessary orientation and familiarize them with the objectives and scope
of the Program, they would be initially trained through a short (about
8 weeks) training program given mainly by Secretariat staff and CENAPRO. The
detailed curriculum of the training program, which is now being prepared, is
expected to concentrate heavily on the characteristics and special needs of
small firms, institutions providing financial and technical assistance to SMI,
and the operating procedures of the various subprograms. Some foreign training
of supervisory level personnel may be desirable and direct foreign exchange
expenditure for this purpose would be eligible for financing from the Bank
loan.
5.07      The extension agents would be based in the 15 regional offices of
NAFINSA (see Annex 3, T-22 and C-4), focussing initially on locations where
there is already a concentration of SMI firms, and where rapid growth of SMI
can be expected, such as Monterrey or Guadalajara, and the intermediate growth
centers on the Queretaro-Leon corridor and the Gulf coast. Eventually, agents
would be located in all 15 of NAFINSA's regional offices as well as Mexico
City. NAFINSA recognizes the need for rapid progress in developing the corps
of extension agents, and has confirmed during loan negotiations satisfactory
arrangements including the timetable for the recruitment, training and deploy-
ment of the extension agents. The training of the first group of extension
agents is expected to be completed by the end of August 1978.



- 40 -
5.08      Private and mixed banks would also be encouraged to form teams
of extension agents similar to NAFINSA's, in order to provide additional
support to SMI. The banks would be invited to send their staff to participate
in the training courses organized for NAFINSA's own extension agents. In
addition, the possibility of making arrangements to partially reimburse banks
for the costs of their extension agents, along the lines of the reimbursement
for bank agricultural extension agents provided by FIRA, 1/ is being examined.
Because of the need to determine experimentally the most effective ways of
involving the private banks in the Technical Assistance Subprogram, only the
"mixed" banks (banks with mixed government-private sector ownership), namely
Banco Internacional, Banco Mexicano-SOMEX, and their affiliates, are expected
to participate initially in forming teams of extension agents.
Cooperation with Specialized Technical Assistance Institutions
5.09      As part of this Subprogram, support would be provided to various
specialized technical assistance agencies, including primarily CENAPRO, IMIT,
CONACYT and INFOTEC, through (a) financing of equipment and other facilities,
and the cost of designing courses, seminars, etc., that would help these
institutions orient their programs more towards the needs of SMI enterprises;
and (b) meeting part of the additional costs incurred by these institutions
in providing services to the Program's target SMI enterprises.
5.10      CENAPRO is the oldest and largest of the spcialized agencies.
It was established in the 1960s with the objective of improving efficiency
of Mexican firms through appropriate training programs, and offers training
programs for personnel of all levels and disciplines in the industrial sector.
Under its ARMO program, approximately 25,000 workers have received vocational
training in many areas over the last 5 years, and more than 10,000 profes-
sionals have thus far been trained through its middle management programs.
CENAPRO also offers periodically special courses for senior management. 2/
On-the-job training is an integral part of many of its courses. However, an
overwhelming majority of the participants in its courses thus far have been
medium and large size enterprises, because the course contents tend to be
overly sophisticated relative to the needs of the smaller enterprises, and
perhaps also because participants have to bear a large portion of the costs of
the courses. As part of the Technical Assistance Subprogram, however, CENAPRO
has indicated its readiness to organize courses more suitable to the needs of
the managers and workers of SMI firms. It has the necessary experience in
developing curricula and organizing courses suited for the special needs of
SMI, as may be identified by the extension agents and other Program staff.
5.11      IMIT is a government-supported, but independent institution carrying
out research and development work to help improve products and production
processes. It is also heavily involved in formulating and evaluating indus-
trial projects, and in the course of this work provides advice and assistance
to firms on technical, marketing an financial matters. It employs a highly
1/   FIRA is the trust fund administered by Banco de Mexico for providing
agricultural credit.
2/   It organized two such courses in cooperation with FOMIN for the top
management staff of FOMIN's client enterprises.



- 41 -
qualified staff whose cost is recovered from fees charged to its clients, thus
far mainly large public and private sector enterprises. IMIT is, however,
currently developing a cost- and risk-sharing program whereby it would evaluate
the proposed projects of SMI firms in a series of stages so that clients whose
projects are found uneconomic at an early stage would not be charged the full
cost. This program has promise of allowing IMIT to be of greater assistance
to SMI.
5.12      CONACYT, the national body coordinating science and technology policy,
has been operating Regional Service Centers ('Centros Regionales') that provide
a range of services, primarily to SMI enterprises, in technical matters rele-
vant to the most prominent subsectors in each locality. It has already estab-
lished three centers--at Oaxaca for food processing industries, at Leon for
leather products, and at Guadalajara for jewelry and handicrafts--and is
considering proposals to start additional centers at other locations. The
centers are partly supported by local governments and industry associations.
Technical services provided by the centers typically include laboratory testing
facilities for raw materials as well as the finished products, and technical
advice and training related to the production process. Program resources
would be made available to finance purchases by the Regional Service Centers
of laboratory testing and other equipment that enable them to expand their
services to SMI enterprises. The proposed Bank loan would cover any direct
import content of such equipment. Also, the industrial extension agents
would actively promote the services of existing centers and provide feedback
on the demand for such centers at new locations.
5.13      INFOTEC is a trust fund of CONACYT administered by NAFINSA.  It
specializes in searching for technical information to help firms improve their
business and is largely supported by fees paid by the firms subscribing to
these services. Services provided by INFOTEC include regular visits by its
engineers to the plants of the clients to determine their information require-
ments, and technical reports covering manufacturing techniques and processes,
technological alternatives, suggestions for improvement of product quality,
and whereabouts of suppliers of appropriate technologies.   INFOTEC also
provides a telephone inquiry service (free of charge for enquiries involving
up to 2-3 hours of INFOTEC staff's time) to answer quickly enquiries of a
technical nature from SMI enterprises, and brings out a news "bulletin"
periocdically, abstracting technical information from current foreign and
Mexican journals. INFOTEC's clients are mostly small or medium sized.
However, its promotional efforts with SMI enterprises have been limited by its
location in Mexico City. The extension agents would be able to help in
correcting this deficiency by making SMI enterprises outside Mexico City aware
of INFOTEC's services. Resources under the Technical Assistance Subprogram
would also be available to INFOTEC to meet the costs (for example, for addi-
tional equipment, books, etc) of providing technical information suitable for
SMI; the directly imported portion of such expenditures would be eligible for
financing under the Bank loan.
5.14      The list of potentially cooperating technical assistance institutions
mentioned above is not exhaustive. IMCE is considering a special program
of suitable promotion activities and dissemination of information to assist
SMI enterprises oriented towards exports. With its well-organized regional
offices and the system of commercial counselors who could provide specific
information regarding exports requirements and prospective customers, IMCE is



- 42 -
well equipped to provide such a service. Most of IMCE's activities, however,
are likely to be oriented to the medium scale enterprises under the Program.
Other private bodies already engaged in industrial extension work, such as
CEPSE 1/ and Fundicion Mexicana para el Desarollo may participate in the
implementation of the Subprogram, mainly by providing, where necessary,
extension services to target enterprises on a subcontracting basis until
NAFINSA has trained an adequate number of its own industrial extension staff.
Financing of Preinvestment Studies and Technical Assistance
5.15      FONEP, a NAFINSA-administered trust fund, was established in 1967,
mainly to finance preinvestment studies of enterprises of all sizes.  However,
its charter also allows it to finance technical assistance activities, including
training of technical staff or hiring consultants. Its financing is on
concessionary terms, 10% p.a. in pesos, 3 to 8 years of maturity and up to
2 years of grace. As noted, most of the agencies providing technical assist-
ance charge fees to cover most of their costs and this has been an impediment
to SMI in obtaining assistance. Under the Program, SMI firms can obtain
financing from FONEP to pay for the costs of preinvestment studies and techni-
cal assistance whether from one of the aforementioned institutions or from
private consultants.
Resource Allocation
5.16      About Mex$200 million of Program resources would be tentatively
allocated to the Technical Assistance Subprogram. Of this, it is estimated
that about Mex$70 million would be required for the initial training and the
direct and overhead costs of employing the industrial extension agents 2/
and advisory staff within the Program's Secretariat over 1978-82. About
Mex$100 million are expected to be used to finance eligible activities of the
cooperating specialized technical assistance institutions and to share the
portion of their operating costs that represent subsidies on technical assist-
ance to SMI enterprises. An additional Mex$30 million would be provided to
FONEP to finance preinvestment studies and technical assistance. The above
allocations are tentative and are subject to review during the Program's
implementation. Total direct foreign exchange content of the cost of this
Subprogram is estimated at about US$2 million.
VI. THE OVERALL PROGRAM AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
The Size of the Program and of the Bank Loan
6.01      NAFINSA, with assistance from the participating institutions, has
estimated that, during the initial 3-year experimental stage, the total
financial resources required for the Program involving financial and technical
assistance to SMI will amount to just over Mex$2 billion in 1977 pesos
(US$91 million equivalent). This estimate is based on conservative judgment
regarding (i) the likely demand for financing under the various subprograms;
1/   Centro Empresarial de Perfeccionamiento Socio-Economico, A.C.
2/   Based on estimates of about 20 extension agents in the first year, 30 in
the second year and 45 in the third year of Program implementation.



- 43 -
(ii) the resources currently available to the executing institutions and their
capacities to expand their activities in line with the Program objectives;
(iii) an appropriate balance between the amount of resources allocated to the
various subprograms; and (iv) the lead time required to bring into full
operation some of the newer elements of the Program (e.g. the credit guarantee
and 'Leasing schemes). Taking into account contributions by the sponsors to
individual subprojects, the total amount of investment in SMI enterprises
encouraged and assisted under the Program would amount to almost Mex$3 billion.
To help finance the Program, NAFINSA requested a Bank loan of US$47 million,
which would be committed over a period of 3 years and disbursed in four years.
The table below shows the proposed allocation of Program financing between
Subprograms and between the various sources of financing. During the loan
negotiations, the Mexican delegation confirmed that the local counterpart
resources to complement the Bank Loan will be made available from fiscal
resources of the Federal Government or from the Banco de Mexico substantially
in the proportions shown in the table below.
Allocation of Program Resources
(All amounts in millions of constant 1977 Mex$)
Private     Total
Total     Sector     Program  World Govern-  Banco
Subprogram          Investment  Financing  Financing Bank  ment  de Mexico
1. Credit and Guarantees     1,656        410       1,246
- Credit                 1,646        410       1,236   680    156      400
- Reserve for Guarantee     10         -           10     -      10       -
2. Risk Capital                913        500         413   227    186
3. Industrial Parks            205         -         200
I
- Factory Buildings .      185         -          185   102      83
- Common Services           10         -           10     5.5   4.5
- Equipment Leasing         10         -           10     5.5   4.5
4. Technical Assistance        225         25        200
- Extension agents, etc.    75          5          70            70      -
- Specialized assistance    120        20         100    45      55      -
- FONEP loans               30         -          30            30       -
Total constant 1977 Mex$  2,999       935       2,064 1,065    599    400
US$ equivalentl/  132.2      41.2        91.0 47.0    26.4  17.6
1/ US$1.00 - Mex$22.7
6.02      The proposed loan of US$47 million would be used to finance about
1,000 subloans, 80 equity investments, construction of about 80 factory build-
ings,40 equipment leases and other facilities on industrial estates, and a
general program of technical assistance. It would finance about 52% of the
total resources made available through the Program during the period and 35%



- 44 -
of the total cost of the investments supported through the Program. The
terminal date for submission of requests for subproject financing would be
June 30, 1981 and the closing date would be June 30, 1982.
6.03      Based on an analysis of samples of subprojects that would be
eligible for financing under the Program, drawn principally from the recent
experience of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN, the overall foreign exchange component
of investments as defined in the above table would be approximately 59% of
Program financing, i.e., about US$55 million (see Annex 3, Table 21). Thus
the proposed Bank loan of US$47 million would cover about 85% of the estimated
foreign exchange cost. This would provide sufficient flexibility to allow
a reallocation of resources between Subprograms, which may well be required
in an experimental program of this nature, without the Bank loan exceeding
the Program's overall foreign exchange content. 1/
Disbursement Mechanism
6.04      In view of the large number, relatively small size and varied nature
of the individual subprojects, it would be very cumbersome to attempt to
determine the foreign exchange content of each individual subproject under
the Program. Furthermore, in the case of equity investments by FOMIN, it is
difficult to distinguish exactly which subproject expenditures are financed
by FOMIN's investment and which by the other shareholders. A standard 55%
of the individual subloans or investments made by FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN
under the Program would therefore be financed under the proposed loan.
This procedure would also ensure a reasonable Bank participation in their
activities and that commitment fees and other charges not be too onerous
for any individual trust fund. With regard to the rather few expenditures
expected to involve foreign exchange costs under the Technical Assistance
Subprogram, the Bank would finance the specific foreign exchange component of
the individual investments. The table following shows the expected time distribu-
tion of approvals and disbursements of the Bank loan over period of 4 years
using this 55% disbursement percentage. 2/
1/   The foreign exchange content of the underlying investments to be financed
varied among the subprograms, and is esimated at 101% of Program financing
in the case of the Risk Capital Subprogram, 61% of Program financing
for the Credit and Guarantees Subprogram, 12% for the Industrial Estates
Subprogram and 23% for Technical Assistance. Accordingly, the overall
foreign exchange content of the Program would be rather sensitive to
changes in the allocation of resources between Subprograms.
2/   The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule of the Bank loan is shown
in Annex 1.



- 45 -
APPROVALS AND DISBURSEMENTS
(Millions of 1977 Mex$)
1978          1979          1980          1981      1982   Total
Disburse-     Disburse-     Disburse-     Disburse-   Disburse-   Approvals and
Subprogrm         Approvals  ments  Approvals  ments  Approvals  ments  Approvals  ments  ments  Disbursements
Credit              110.0  60.0   225.0  225.0  225.0  225.0  120.0  ' .O   55.0     680.0
Risk Capital        :,0.0  22.7   85.0   68.1   92.0   111.5   20.0  24.7            227.0
Industrial Parks    10.0   -      30.0   30.0   43.0   43.0    30.0  30.0   10.0     113.0
Technical Assistance  5.0  -       15.0  15.0    15.0  15.0    10.0   10.0   5.0     45.0
Total            155.0  82.7   355.0  338.1  375.0  394.3  184.0  179.7   70.0    1065.0
Millions of uS$ equivalent  6.8  3.7  15.0  14.9  16.5  17.4-  8.1    7.9    3.1     47.0
Description of the Loan Components
6.05     The Bank loan would initially be allocated among four components
as follows: US$30 million for FOGAIN to support the Credit and Guarantees
Subprogram; US$10 million for FOMIN to support the Risk Capital Subprogram;
US$5 million to be channeled through FIDEIN to implement the Industrial
Estates Subprogram; and US$2 million to be used directly by NAFINSA to
implement the Technical Assistance Subprogram. However, in view of the
experimental nature of the Program, these initital allocations and other
related loan features would be reviewed and revised as necessary during the
commitment period as agreed between NAFINSA and the Bank. Subloans under
each of the above components would be made in accordance with the operating
regulations of the respective implementing agencies and would be required to
satisfy the eligibility criteria specified for the respective Subprograms.
Since a multi-tier approval system of the nature proposed for this project 1/
may involve relatively long processing times, subproject expenditures up to
180 days prior to receipt by the Bank of the financing application would be
eligible for Bank financing.
6.06     The specific terms of financing under each of the loan components
would be as follows:
(a) The credit component of US$30 million would finance 55% of
FOGAIN's credits for fixed assets (credits of up to Mex$4.5
million) and associated working capital (credits of up to
Mex$3.5 million) for qualifying subprojects. Subloans are
expected to have maximum terms of 10 years including
2 years of grace. The average lending rate to the final
borrowers on FOGAIN-discounted subloans made prior to
January 1, 1979 would be at least 16 percent; thereafter
the average lending rates would be 1.0 to 3.0 percentage
points above the ACF index calculated by Banco de Mexico and
would be reviewed and adjusted if necessary at least once
per year to reflect any changes in the ACF index and FOGAIN's
financial costs, and whenever the ACF index differs for a
period of three consecutive months by 2 percentage points or
1/  Including the Coordinating Committee, the participating trust fund
(FOGAIN, FOMIN or FIDEIN), and the intermediary, if any.



- 46 -
time of the last adjustment (see para. 2.12). Interest
rates to the final borrowers may vary depending on their
geographical location to help promote industrial decen-
tralization, provided that the average interest rate charged
is in the above range (para. 2.12). Margins to the inter-
mediaries would be about 3%, but may differ slightly depending
on the size of the enterprise to provide additional incentive
for the intermediaries for lending to the smaller enterprises
(para. 2.09).
(b) The equity investments component of US$10 million would finance
55% of FOMIN's equity and equity type investments to support the
fixed assets and associated working capital needs of qualifying
subprojects.
(c) The industrial estates component of US$5 million would finance
55% of (i) direct expenditures by FIDEIN or FIDEIN's credits to
the Fideicomisos managing the individual industrial estates for
construction (and rental) of single factory buildings or larger
buildings that can be subdivided into smaller working areas, and
common service centers on the industrial estates; and (ii) FIDEIN's
credits to leasing companies for the purchase of equipment to be
leased to qualifying SMI enterprises. FIDEIN would relend the
funds to the Fideicomisos and the leasing companies at interest
rates approximately equal to FOGAIN's interest rates to the
intermediaries. 1/
(d) The technical assistance component would finance the direct foreign
exchange content of the cost of training the extension agents and
the central staff of the Programs Secretariat, and of the equipment
needed for specialized technical assistance (para. 5.09).
Channelling of the Bank Loan
6.07      A special Program Account would be established in NAFINSA to record
the channelling of all Program resources, including reimbursements to the indi-
vidual trust funds and other participating institutions for qualifying sub-
projects and expenditures, and any debt service payments received from them.
Program staff would claim reimbursement from the Bank for the portion of the
Program disbursements that is eligible for financing under the Bank loan
(para. 6.04). As the Borrower, NAFINSA would make the debt service payments
to the Bank. However, it may recover from the respective participating
institutions all or part of such debt service payments, depending on the
Subprogram. 2/
1/   The Fideicomisos and the leasing companies in turn wold be expected to
set rents and purchase prices of factory buildings at rates that would
enable them to fully cover their financial and administrative costs
and recover their capital invested (para. 4.21).
2/   The Government intends to reimburse NAFINSA for all debt service payments
made by NAFINSA that are not covered by payments into the Program account
by FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN.



- 47 -
6.08      While NAFINSA would have flexibility in fixing the precise details
of these channelling arrangements, it has agreed that the Program resources
(inc:Luding the proceeds of the Bank loan) would be channelled in pesos to
FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN on terms that reflect the characteristics of their
respective financing operations and their resultant repayment capacities, and
in any case would at least be as favorable (that is, maturities at least as long
and interest rates at most as high) as their respective onlending or investment
terms to the final beneficiaries. During loan negotiations, NAFINSA has
confirmed that the following principles would be adhered to in designing the
channelling arrangements:
(i) FOMIN would not be required to pay interest on the amounts
of the Bank loan used for its subprojects;
(ii) FIDEIN would not be required to pay interest on the amounts
of the Bank loan used for its financing operations until
such time as it was generating sufficient income, net of
operating expenses, from its financing operations to pay
such interest;
(iii) FOGAIN would pay interest on the amounts of the Bank loan
used in its operations, but the levels of such interest
charges would be set so as to enable FOGAIN to have a
spread between its borrowing and onlending rates adequate
to cover its operating costs;
(iv) When FOMIN, FIDEIN, and FOGAIN recover the principal amounts
of the Bank loan used for individual investment, lending or
leasing subprojects, they would be required to repay such
amounts to Nacional Financiera for reuse in the Program, or
to themselves reuse such amounts for purposes similar to
those of the Program.
Repayment Terms of the Bank Loan
6.09      A fixed amortization schedule would be used for repayment of the
proposed loan because (a) two of the principal implementing agencies of the
project, FOMIN and FIDEIN, have, by the nature of their operations, uncertain
cash recovery schedules; (b) the large number of subprojects expected 1/ makes
it cumbersome for the Bank to use a composite amortization schedule, and
(c) NAFINSA, rather than the individual trust funds would be responsible for
principal repayments to the Bank. As the vast majority of the subprojects
would have maturities of 12 years or less, and they may be approved up to the
end of the commitment period, the Bank loan would be repaid over a period of
15 years including 4 years of grace (the expected period to complete dis-
bursements).
Free Limits
6.10      The Bank's role in the review and approval of subprojects to be
financed under the proposed loan would vary among the different Subprograms
1/   About 1,000 subloans, 80 equity investments and 120 leasing subprojects,
addition to common service centers and technical assistance subprojects.



- 48 -
to reflect the substantial differences in the numbers and characteristics of
the subprojects to be financed by FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN, the experience
and capability of the respective institutions in subproject appraisal, and
the presence of the technical staff of the Program as each an intermediate
screening level between the institution and the Bank. Accordingly, free
limits would be set as follows: (a) FOGAIN's subprojects would not require
prior Bank approval in view of their large number and relatively small size
(average US$50,000 and maximum US$200,000 equivalent), FOGAIN's ample
experience, and the need for such subprojects to be approved at 3 levels
before being eligible for Bank financing; (b) all equity investments by
FOMIN involving more than US$150,000 in Bank financing would be subject to
prior review and approval by the Bank (i.e., about one third of FOMIN's
investments); (c) prior Bank approval would be required the first five
factory leasing subprojects, the first common service center and the first
two equipment leasing subprojects to enable close monitoring in the initial
stages of the development of the appropriate appraisal procedures within
FIDEIN; and (d) all applications to use Bank funds to finance specialized
technical assistance would require prior Bank approval.
6.11      In order to enable monitoring and ex-post evaluation of the appraisal
procedures and decision making under the Program, the Bank would undertake
periodic review, on a past-appraisal basis, a representative sample (about
10-15 percent) of the subprojects not subject to the Bank's prior review and
approval and would take up important points during supervision missions.
Disbursement, Procurement and Auditing
6.12      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made for 55% of disbursements
made on subloans by FOGAIN, FIDEIN and FOMIN and 100% of foreign expenditures
for the Technical Assistance Subprogram (para. 6.04). Disbursement for the
subloans, investments and leasing operations would be made against certificates
of expenditure issued by the respective trust funds; the detailed documentation
evidencing the final expenditures on productive fixed assets or related perman-
ent working capital would not be submitted but would be retained by the
Borrower and be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of
project supervision missions. Disbursement for subprojects financed through
FOMIN and FIDEIN would in addition be required to be consistent with a brief
description of the subproject, including a list of items financed and an
estimated schedule of expenditures and disbursements, which would be required
to be submitted to the Bank prior to Bank authorization of the subproject. 1/
Disbursement for the Technical Assistance Subprogram would be made against
fully documented foreign exchange expenditures, or for 70% of the domestic
price of imported goods when c.i.f. prices cannot be established (tariffs,
local taxes, domestic freight and mark-up represent about 30% of the domestic
purchase price on average).
6.13      The Borrower would also make satisfactory arrangements for a full
audit 2/ of the individual trust funds, as well as of the Program Account
1/   While these disbursements procedures are not the same as those used for
normal DFC projects in which the number of subprojects is relatively small,
they are similar to the procedures used in other Bank operations involving
financing of large numbers of rather small subprojects.
2/   By reputable auditors following accounting principles acceptable to the
Bank.



- 49 -
to be submitted to the Bank annually (see also para. 3.23). NAFINSA, together
with F'OGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would apply suitable procedures either directly
or through the intermediaries to ensure that goods and services procured using
Program financing are competitive in quality and price, and are appropriate
for the needs of the client enterprise.
Project Benefits and Risks
6.14      NAFINSA's new Program is complex in design and ambitious in scope,
involving many diverse institutions and a large number of components and
subcomponents. A key factor for its success is that most of the important
institutions are under the administrative supervision of NAFINSA, which has
the human resources and institutional capability to carry out the Program.
The Program represents an imaginative and sound approach to tackle some of
the major deficiencies that have limited the effectiveness of the present
system of institutional support for SMI and to enable SMI enterprises to more
fully realize their growth potential.
6.15      The proposed loan would support economically and financially viable
SMI projects with a significant impact on both output and employment. The
underLying subprojects would create 15-18,000 long-term jobs, with the
capital investment per job estimated at US$7-10,000; three-quarters of the
subprojects financed are expected to involve small enterprises with 25 or
less employees. 1/
6.16      The.project would also achieve major institution-building objectives
oriented towards an integrated and balanced development of SMI in Mexico. It
would create for the first time the institutional framework and procedures
required for a closer coordination and complementarity in the activities of
numerous SMI financing and technical assistance institutions in Mexico. In
addition, it would help fill gaps in the availability of important services to
SMI by promoting needed improvements and new activities in the participating
institutions, including: strengthening FOGAIN's internal organization and its
evaluation procedures (paras. 2.06 and 2.19); helping FOMIN to further upgrade
its portfolio selection and investment sales procedures and to introduce new
investment instruments (paras. 3.12, 3.14 and 3.21); developing FIDEIN's role
as a specialized financing institution (para. 4.23), particularly in the design
and evaluation of schemes for factory and equipment leasing; and creating a
new industrial extension service capable of providing direct assistance to
SMI enterprises (para. 5.05).
6.17      The major risk to be considered in the implementation of the pro-
posed project is that it may not take off as quickly as is hoped since the
Program involves many diverse elements and requires the cooperation of many
institutions. This makes the effective functioning of the Program's Coor-
dinating Committee and its Secretariat the key to the Program's success.
However, tile actions already taken and the detailed plans shown in the Project
Implementation Document (para. 5.04) suggest that this risk is not high.
The only other important risk is a macro-economic one: there is the possi-
bility that the Government may not succeed in reducing the rate of inflation
1/   These figures are based on an analysis of subprojects assisted by FOGAIN,
FOMIN and FIDEIN during the last few years.



- 50 -
as rapidly as expected, thereby causing uncertainties in the investment
climate. While this may result in a lower rate of investment in SMI, it is
unlikely to reduce demand for Program financing since it would probably be
accompanied by a lower rate of domestic resource mobilization by the
banking system.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During the loan negotiations, agreements were obtained, or under-
standings reached, on:
(a) a plan and timetable for completing all the outstanding
tasks towards the implementation of each of the Subprograms
(para. 5.04);
(b) the allocation of the proceeds of the loan among the various
components of the project, and arrangements for reviewing
such allocation during the loan commitment period
(para. 6.05);
(c) availability of local counterpart resources of about US$44.0
million from fiscal resources or from Banco de Mexico to
complement the resources from the Bank loan in executing
the project, and their distribution among the various
subprograms (para. 6.01);
(d) arrangements for channelling the proceeds of the Bank loan
and the counterpart resources to the participating trust
funds (para. 6.07);
(e) onlending terms including FOGAIN's interest rates to the
final beneficiaries and margins to the intermediaries
(para. 6.06), and financial criteria to be applied in
designing FIDEIN's leasing contracts (para. 4.21);
(f) free limits (para. 6.10) and project evaluation procedures
(paras. 2.21 and 3.16);
(g) satisfactory auditing arrangements for FOGAIN, FOMIN,
FIDEIN and the special Program Account (para. 6.13);
(h) procedures for disbursement (para. 6.12) and procurement
(para. 6.13); and
(i) substance of the various institutional improvements required
in the operations of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN for implemen-
tation of the Program (para. 6.16);
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$47.0 million with a term of 15 years including 4 years of grace on
conditions outlined in Chapter VI.



ANNEX 1
Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                  Disbursements       Cumulative Disbursements
(Ending Date)                            during the                 at the End
Quarter                  of Quarter
(US$ millions)           (US$ millions)
1978/79
September 30, 1978                               1.5                       1.5
December 31, 1978                                2.0                       3.5
March 31, 1979                                   3.0                       6.5
June :30, 1979                                   3.5                      10.0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                               4.0                     14.0
December 31, 1979                                4.5                     18.5
March 31, 1980                                   4.5                      23.0
June 30, 1980                                    4.5                     27.5
1980/81
September 30, 1980                               4.5                     32.0
December 31, 1980                                4.0                     36.0
March 31, 1981                                   3.0                      39.0
June 30, 1981-                                   2.0                     41.0
1981/82
September 30, 1981                               1.5                     42.5
December 31, 1981                                1.5                     44.0
March 31, 1982 /                                 1.5                     45.5
June 30, 1982-                                   1.5                     47.0
a/ Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
b/ Closing Date.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
The ACF Index
The average cost of funds to financieras 1/(ACF) is a rate calculated
monthly by Banco de Mexico in order to determine how much to pay financieras for
required reserves kept with Banco de Mexico. Thus, it is a ready-made indicator
of financial costs. It is a weighted average of gross (of tax) interest rates
paid on financial bonds and certificates, promissory notes, and the newly-created
certificates of deposit, instruments whose maturity varied from sight to one year.
The ACF excluded checking accounts, savings deposits and mortgage bonds and certi-
ficates issued by commercial banks and mortgage banks even though in practice the
latter paid rates approximately equal to rates paid by financieras.
Movements in the ACF are determined chiefly by the rates paid on various
classes of deposit instruments and changes in the volume of savings attracted by
different instruments. Maximum rates that banks can pay on each instrument are set
by Banco de Mexico to avoid excessive fluctuations in rates and undesirable large
movements in deposits between financial institutions or between instruments with
different term characteristics. Nevertheless, through 1972 rates were set high
enough to attract substantial real increases in resources and the banking system was
growing faster than GDP. During that time, the ACF at around 10% was 5-7 points
greater than the inflation (See table below). During 1973-76, the inflationary period
leading up to the abandonment of the fixed parity of the peso in relation to the US
dollar in September 1976, the ACF rose to near 12Y as deposit rates were raised seve-
ral times but never by enough to exceed inflation (except for brief periods).  Resource
mobilization, consequently, suffered and the financial system shrank when measured in
constant prices.
The new administration has announced a policy of setting interest rates which,
in relation to inflationary expectations, would promote the renewed growth of resource
mobilization. The first step in this policy was taken in May 1977 when interest rates
on the longest term deposits (2 years) were increased from 15.17% to 18.52% (12.75% to
16% after tax) as a result of which the ACF reached 14.30% in December, 1977.
A secondary determinant of changes in the ACF is changes in the relative amounts
held in the various instruments. On at least two occasions changes in those relative
amounts have importantly affected the ACF. In late 1976, deposit rates were raised but
the ACF did not rise because the public, due to general uncertainty, shifted a larger
portion of its deposits into financial bonds paying lower rates but withdrawable at
sight.  On the other hand, the effect on the ACF of the May increase mainly in longer
term deposit rates was reinforced by a relative shift from shorter to longer term depo-
sit instruments. The increase in deposit rates in May 1977 accompanied by a decline in
inflation from 23.0% p.a. in the first semester to 16.4% in the second, has led to an
encouraging increase in the volume of peso denominated financial savings.
1/ Financieras are the term lending arms of banking conglomerates, now formally fused
with commercial and mortgage banks into multipurpose banking institutions--multibanks.
Resources mobilized by the financing divisions continue to be the main source of term
loans from multibanks and to be subject to their own regulating regime.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
It is likely that the spread between the ACF and the rate now paid by the
borrower is higher today than in 1974 since the scarcity of peso credit intensified
following devaluation. However, the rates being paid in May 1977, around 20% p.a.
or roughly 8 points above the ACF of 11.93%, at that time, have increased little in
the second semester as the ACF climbed to 14.7% in February, 1978, implying a decrease
in the spread.
If the recent rapid growth in deposits is sustained, there may be no immediate
changes in deposit rates and the ACF may remain near its February level. Therefore,
in the projections it is assumed that this level of ACF will prevail in the 1978-82
period which would be consistent with the assumption of inflation/gradually declining
from 16% to 7% p.a. If, however, progress in controlling inflation were significantly
less successful, the monetary authorities could be expected to raise deposit rates
producing a further rise in the ACF. It is likely, therefore, that a lending rate
set 1 to 3 points above the ACF would be positive in real terms over the life of a
subloan, perhaps starting in 1978. There is, of course, no guarantee that deposit
rates and the ACF would not again become negative in real terms as they were in 1973-
76, but having had such a clear, recent example of the damage this does to the finan-
cial system, the authorities are not likely to controvene their stated policies by
permitting this to occur again.
Deposit Rates, the ACF and Inflation
Inflation during
Highest Deposit                          quarter, annualized
Year  Quarter               Rate                 ACF                   rate
1971   1                    11.48                10.53                 4.9
2                    11.11               10.41                  3.9
3                    11.11               10.30                  4.3
4                    11.11               10.19                  4.2
1972   1                    10.60                10.03                 7.7
2                    10.60                9.97                  4.1
3                    10.60                9.91                  5.8
4                    10.60                9.90                  4.6
1973   1                    10.60                 9.87                13.6
2                    10.88                9.87                 14.6
3                    12.71               10.41                 29.9
4                    12.71               10.65                 28.5
1974   1                    12.78                10.88                29.9
2                    13.74               11.35                 13.1
3                    14.21               11.57                 15.7
4                    14.21               11.88                 24.5



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Deposit Rates, the ACF and Inflation
Inflation during
Highest Deposit                          quarter,annualized
Year  Quarter               Rate                  ACF                  rate
1975   1                    14.21                11.86                10.4
2                    14.21               11.89                 16.7
3                    14.21               11.91                  9.9
4                    14.21               11.97                  8.3
1976   1                    13.91                11.78                21.0
2                    13.91               11.76                  7.4
3                    14.63               11.74                 22.8
4                    15.17               11.99                 64.0
1977   1                    15.17               11.99                 32.7
2                    16.28               12.59                15.4
3                    18.52               13.83                21.7.
4                    18.52               14.30                 13.9



ANNEX 3
SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS






Table 1: INDICATORS OF RESOURCE MOBILIZATION AND CREDIT AVAILABILITY FROM THE MEXICAN BANKING SYSTEM (as at year-end)
1970          1971          1972          1973          1974           1975          1976
(1) Non-monetary peso Liabilities
of Banking system a/
Mex$ billions                   119.9          139.4         162.5         178.5         208.3          258.4         258.7
as % of GDP                      28.6           30.8          31.7          28.8          25.6           25.8          22.0
(2)  Total Banking System Credit
Outstanding (peso denominated)
Mex$ billions                   130.1          154.0         173.5         192.5         232.2        .290.8          392.2
as % of GDP                      31.1           34.0          33.9          31.1          28.5           29.1          32.1
(3) Banking System Credit to
Private Sector
Mex$ billions                    93.5          109.7         116.4         124.9         153.4          183.2         223.1
as % of (2)                      71.8           71.2          17.0          64.9          64.1           63.0          56.9
as % of GDP                      22.3          24.2           22.7          20.2          18.9           18.2          18.3
(4) Banking System Credit to
Manufacturing Industry
Mex$ billions                    33.3           38.5          40.0          42.6          55.5           71.2          98,1
as % of (2)                      25.4           25.0          23.0          22.1          24.0           24.5          25.0
(5) Banking System Credit to
Private Manufacturing Industry
Mex$ billions                    27.2           31.8          30.2          32.5          42.4           48.7          63.7
as %,of (2)                      20.9          20.6           17.4          16.9          18.3           16.7          16.2
a/  The term 'non-monetary liabilities' is used in this context to refer to all liabilities of the banks except checking    X
accounts and other demand deposits.



Table 2: ANALYSIS OF TOTAL CREDIT AUTHORIZATIONS BY FOGAIN DURING 1976/77
By Amount of Credit (in 'OOOMS)        Number of        %        Amount        %                   By Type of Financing           Number of        %        Amount        %
(Mex$'000)                              Credits                (Mex$ '000)                                                         Credits
(Mex$ '000)
Up to 50                               331          9.1         12.7       0.6                      Fixed Assets Loans           1,337        36.6         919.2    39.7
50 to 100                            480         13.1         41.7       1.8
100 to 200                            583         16.0         96.2      4.2                      Working Capital               2,183        59.7        1236.0    53.3
200 to 500                          1,125         30.8        415.4      17.9                      For debt restructuring         135         3.7        161.3       7.0
500 to 1,000                          602         16.4        495.8      21.4                                    Total          3==5        100.0 e2^=6.           100.0
i,ooo to 2,000                          321          8.8        537.5      23.2
2,000 to 5,000                          210          5.7        698.3      30.1                  By Location
5,000 to 10,000                           3          0.1         19.0       0.8
Total             32655         100.0 2=31 66    100.0                            Zone 1                       1,211        33.2      1,025.4      44.2
Zone 2                         245         6.7        179.1       7.8
By Equity Capital of the Enterprise                                                                    Zone 3                      =2=;.        60.1&o=   111Z2.0      48.0
(mex$'000)                                                                                                          Total          3 655       100.0      2,316.6    100.0
Up to 25                                 3          0.1          0.2        -
25 to 50                             14         0.4           0.7       -                    By Type of Activity
50 to 100                            40          1.1          2.5      0.1
100 to 300                           292          8.0         20.4      0.9                       Food Products                  553        15.1        317.7      13.7
300 to 500                           324          8.8        40.4       1.7                      Beverages                        57         1.5         60.2       2.5
500 to 1,000                         666         18.2        146.5      6.3                       Textiles                       110         3.0        153.1       6.6
1,000 to 2,000                         880         24.1        337.5     14.6                       Footwear & clothes             584        15.9        263.0      11.3
2,000 to 3,500                         603         16.5        393.3     17.0                      Wood Products                    98         2.6         51.7       2.2
3,500 to 5,000                         262          7.2        265.7     11.5                       Furniture & accessories        220         6.0         98.1       4.2
5,000 to 10,000                        364         10.0        585.5     25.3                       Paper Products                  55         1.5         56.7       2.4
10,000 to 15,000                        121          3.3        279.5      12.1                      Printing & Litography          119         3.2         75.8       3.2
15,000 to 20,000                         48          1.3        119.0       5.1                      Leather & Leather Products   110           3.0         70.7       3.0
20,000 to 25,000                         24          0.7         75.0       3.2                      Rubber                          57         1.5         45.4       1.9
25,000 to 30,000                          9          0.2         28.0       1.2                      Chemicals                      201         5.4        165.4       7.1
30,000 to 35,000                          5          0.1         22.5       1.0                      Petroleum Products               4         0.1          2.4       0.1
Total             =3^-e===    100.0=       0166    100.0o--                      Basic Metals                    62         1.6         62.9       2.7
Other Minerals                 319         0.9        187.5       8.0
By No. of Employees in the Enterprise                                                                  Metal Working and Machine
Fabrication                  665         1.8        451.9      19.5
Up to 10                             1,234         33.8        236.8     10.2                       Other Manufacturing            244         6.6        183.6       7.9
11 to 20                               810         22.2        319.1     13.7                       Construction                    10         0.2          5.8       0.2
21 to 50                               932         25.4        717.2     31.0                       Services                       187         5.1         64.8       2.7
51 to 100                              441         12.1        529.7     22.9                                     Total            655       10.        2,016.6    100
more than 100                          238          6.5        513.7      22.2
Total             3>655        10 le=e_             1!2=2,        
YOO-0  gjlt.&L    122.&2=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ANNEX 3
T-3
Table 3: ANALYSIS OF FIXED ASSET CREDITS (Refaccionarios) AUTHORIZED BY FOGAIN
(All Amounts in Mex$ millions)
1973/74          1974/75         1975/76            1976/77
No.  Amount      No.  Amount       No.  Amount      No.  Amount
By Size of Credit
Up to  Mex$2.0 million            923   320.4    1098   400.7    1013   378.0    1247   595.6
Mex$2.0 - 4.5 million       39   126.8       55   152.0        55   187.7       90   323.6
Total         962   447.2    1153   552.7    1068   565.7    1337   919.2
By Equity of Client Enterprise
Up to Mex$1 million               487    64.4       547    87.5      479    88.6      503    91.6
Mex$1 to 3.5 million              321   167.3       395   179.6      406   201.5      546   320.9
More than Mex$3.5 million         154   215.5       211   285.6      183   275.6      288   506.7
Total         962   447.2    1153   552.7    1068   565.7    13-37  -.14a..
By Number of Employees in the
Enterprise
Up to 10                          366    51.8       386    57.3      367    69.0      518   129.7
11 to 20                       205    67.8      271    98.0       264    92.3      292   134.7
21 to 50                       217   121.9      277   164.5       260   169.4      310   285.6
51 to 100                      108   112.7      127   108.4      114   122.2       140   185.1
more than 100                   66    93.0       92   124.4        63   122.8       77   184.2
Total         962   447.2 1=153   552.7    1068   565.7    1=337  =919.2
By Location
Zone 1                            311   188.3      359   251.2      349   242.6       378   346.2
Zone 2                             53    53.4       73    40.2       53    44.0        98    74.0
Zone 3                            598   205.5      721   261.3      666   279.1      861   499.1
Total         962   447.2    1153   552.7    1068   565.7    1337   919.2



Table 4: TOTAL APPROVALS, DISBURSEMENTS AND REPAYMENTS OF FOGAIN'S CREDITS, 1974-82
(All Amounts in Mex$ millions)
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Total Credit Approvals                    983       1251      1121       2316        2895       3620       4520       5650       7060
Disbursements                             827       1050      1234       1777       2600        3250       4070       5085      6360
Repayments on Loan Portfolio
Existing portfolio                     463        759      1007       1177       1099        574        257       138         54
New portfolio                           -          -        -          -          520      1240       2092       2962       4011
TOTAL              463       759       1007       1177      1619       114        2342       3100       4065
N z



ANNEX 3
T-5
Table 5:  PAST AND PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS OF FOGAIN AS OF JUNE 30 OF EACH YEAR
(All Amounts in Mex$ millions)
AUDITED            UNAUDITED                     PROJECTED _/ .b
1974    1975    1976         1977       1978      1979      1980     1981      1982
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash & Short Term Deposits                       6.5     2.5    48.8         75.9       95.0    120.0    148.0    185.0    230.0
Arrears on Interest and Principal
of Loan Portfolio                            8.3    10.5    20.2           8.6      10.0      12.0      14.0      16.0      18.0
Other Accounts Receivable                       6.2      7.0      8.4        15.2       20.0      25.0     30.0      35.0      40.0
Current Portion of Loan Portfolio             671.0   760.0   830.0        1100.0    1810.0   2330.0   3080.0   3850.0   4800.0
v692.0   780.0   907.4      1199.7    1935.0   2487.0   3272.0   4086.0   5088.0
Long Term Assets
Loan Portfolio (excl. current portion)        366.3   567.7   715.9        1054.9    1326.0   1829.0   2513.0   3228.0   4073.0
Net fixed assets (furniture & equipment)        1.0      1.1      1.4         3.2        3.3       3.4      3.5       3.6       3.8
Deferred charges (due to foreign
exchange fluctuations)                      11.7    16.8    13.4         332.3      310.0    285.0    250.0    210.0    175.0
379.0   585.6   730.7       1390.4    1639.3   2117.4   2766.5   3441.6   4251.8
TOTAL              12L- 1-Q 3 U    1638.1      =.259.          .3   4604.4   6038.5   7527.6   933298
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Interest Payable                             6.2    13.9      8.9         12.2      18.0      22.0      28.0      34.0      43.0
Other Accounts Payable (incl.
current portion of long-term
liabilities)                             32.1    24.9    28.5        255.6      368.0    479.0       71.0    563.0   LL00.0
38.3    38.8    37.4        267.8      386.0    501.0      99.0    597.0    143.0
Long Term Liabilities
Certificates of Participation of
Banco de Mexico (existing)                 290.0   600.0   800.0       1050.0      900.0    500.0    500.0         0.0       -
Existing Long Term Borrowings from IDB        293.1   280.6   307.0         732.1      669.0    606.0    562.0    518.0    469.0
Other (Reserves, etc.)                          1.5      1.9      1.9         9.4        -        -         -         -         -
Borrowings from Program Account                 -        -        -           -          -      400.0   1050.0   1580.0   1780.0
Other Net New Borrowings Expected (from
Banco de Mexico, IDB, etc.)                  -        -       _           _       1056.3   1964.4   3038.5   3868.6   5767.8
584.6   882.5  1108.9       1791.5    2625.3   3470.4   5150.5   5966.6   8016.8
Equity
Share Capital from Government                 359.7   359.7   409.7         493.1      543.0    593.0    693.0    793.0    893.0
Retained earnings                              88.4    84.6    82.1          37.7       20.0     40.0      96.0    171.0    287.0
448.1   444.3   491.8        530.8      563.0    633.0    789.0    964.0   1180.0
TOTAL              10712.0 3 ;.   1638.1   2590.1    3574.3   4604.4   6038.5   7527.6   9332,
Long-Term Liabilities/Equity                    1.30    1.99    2.25          3.37       4.7       5.5      6.5       6.2       6.8
Current Assets/Current Liabilities              9.6    14.6    19.1           3.9        5.0      5.0      33.0      6.8       35.6
a/ Excluding projected guarantee operations under the new scheme.
b/ For assumptions used in these projections, see footnote to Table 6.



Table 6: PAST AND PROJECTED INCONE STATEMENTS OF FOGAIN a/
(All amounts in Mex$ millions)
AUDITED          UNAUDITED                  PROJECTED;-  -/
1974   1975   1976        1977      1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
INCOME
Interest Income                                                 57.4   83.1  110.7       146.5    263.0  437.6  625.6  812.1  1032.4
EXPENSES
Interest Expense c/                                       33.7   60.8   79.9        127.9    208.7  324.5  450.4  589.0   754.0
Commissions, etc.                                          9.4    7.8   11.7         11.8      14.0   18.5   24.0   31.5    39.5
General and Administrative Expenses                       13.1   15.9   20.5         28.3      34.4   48.9   59.9   76.0    87.7
Depreciation and Amortization                              0.2    0.2    0.2          0.3       0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3         0.3
Losses due to Exchange Rate Fluctuations d/                0.2    2.1    0.9         22.6      22.3   25.0   35.0   40.0    35.0
TOTAL                  566 6 886=8 1_132        190.9    279.7  417.2  569.6  736.8   916.5
Net Income (Loss)                                                0.8   (3.8)  (2.5)    (44.4)   (16.7)  20.4   56.0   75.3   115.9
Net Income as % of Average Total Assets                          0.1   (0.3)  (0.2)       (2.1)    (0.6)   0.5    1.1    1.2          1.5
Administrative Costs as % of Average Loan Portfolio              1.6    1.4    1.4         1.3        1.3    1.3    1.2    1.2        1.1
a/ For 1-year period ending on June 30 of the year specified.
b/ Excluding effects of the projected guarantee operations.
c/ Includes losses suffered on interest payments due to exchange rate fluctuations.
d/ Losses suffered on principal repayments on past IDB loans.
e/ Assumptions used for FOGAIN's financial projections:
(i)  Average borrowing rate of interest on all future borrowings of FOGAIN, including funds from the Program resources
and Banco de Mexico, is assumed to be 10%.
(ii)  It is assumed that the average lending rate from FOGAIN to the intermediaries will be raised to 13.0% by the
beginning of the last quarter of FY77/78 and will remain at that level throughout the projection period.
(iii)  FOGAIN's administrative expenses as a percentage of its average loan portfolio are assumed to continue at the
current level of 1.3% through fiscal years 1977/78 and 1978/79; they are projected to decrease to 1.2%
for the following two years and 1.12 thereafter.
(iv)  Commission and other charges payable to the trustee (NAFINSA), IDB and other agencies are assumed to grow as
shown in the projected income statements of Table T-5.
(v)  Budgetary resources of Mex$50 million during each of the next two years, and Mex$100 million annually thereafter,
are expected to be provided as contributions to FOGAIN's equity.
(vi)  Over the period of projection, the maturity structure of FOGAIN's total loan portfolio is assumed to remain
approximately the same as its current structure.
M,



ANNEX 3
T-7
Table 7: ANALYSIS OF FOGAIN'S GUARANTEE OPERATIONS
(Totals for July 1971-Dec. 1976)
No. of Enterprises   No. of Credits  Guarantees Granted
Guaranteed    Amount    As % of
(Mex$'000) Credits
By Equity of the
Enterprise
Up to Mex$500,000                      8                 11             666            52.8
Mex$500,000 to 1.0 million        10                  15           1300            49.8
Mex$l to 3.5 million                8                 17           1318            33.2
more than Mex$3.5 million           3                  3            431            31.3
Total                29                  46           3715            40.3
By Location
Zone 1                             9                  13            857            46.9
Zone 2                             3                   5            357            48.0
Zone 3                            17                  28           2501            37.6
Total                29                  46           3715            40.3



ANNEX 3
T-8, T-9
Table 8: SUNMARY OF FOMIN'S INVESTMENTS
(Cumulative up to December 31, 1976)
No. of Firms           Amount
(Mex$ millions)
Studies                            166                436.8
Rejections                          20                 55.3
Approvals                          146                381.5
Not Finanlized 1/                   62                160.1
In Process                           3                 10.9
Completed Investments               81                210.5
Investments Sold                    14                 20.4
Companies Being Liquidated           3                   8.2
Portfolio as of Year-end 1976       64                181.9
(at cost)
Table 9: SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF FIRMS SUPERVISED BY FOMIN'S PORTFOLIO CONTROL DEPARTMENT
(As of December 31, 1976)
Amount             Average Amount
Subsector                    No. of Firms 2/         Invested 3           Per Firm
(Mex$ millions)      (Mex$ millions)
Chemicals                          11                  46.4                   4.2
Food products                      16                  45.1                   2.8
Metal products                     11                  36.6                   3.3
Wood and cork products              4                  29.5                   7.3
Construction materials              7                  11.9                   1.7
Electrical machinery                4                   3.7                   0.9
Textiles and clothing               3                   2.2                   0.7
Other                              13                  18.9                   1.6
Total                          69                 195.7                  2.8
1/ These include projects approved by FONIN, but not implemented, typically because
the client enterprise has not agreed to conditions required by FOMIN for its
investment.
2/ Includes 5 firms whose investments are still in process.
3/ Amounts include reinvested dividends.



ANNEX 3
T-10
Table 10:  STATUS OF FIRMS IN FOMIN'S PORTFOLIO
2/
Operating               Feb.    June   Oct.   Dec.   Mar.   Sept.   Dec.          June      Sept.
Profitably              1975    1975   1975   1975   1976   1976    1976          1977      1977
No.                    20        24     21      21      21      26      23       19        20
% Investment           29       33      24      29      45     50       34       23        41
Operating with
Losses
No.                    27        26     30      37      30     28       34       22        19
% Investment           57        46     54      52      35     40       51       47        40
Installation and
Special Situation-
No.                    16        20     20      13      20     15       10       25        26
% Investment           14       22      22      19      20     10       15       21       20
Total
No.                    63        70     71      71      71     69       67       66       65
% Investment         100       100    100    100    100    100         100     100       100
1/ Includes firms being sold in 1977.
2/ Two investments in feasibility studies included in Table 9 are excluded here.



ANNEX 3
T-11
Table 11: FOMIN'S AUDITED INCOME STATEMENT FOR 1976
(Amounts in Mex$'000)
Income
Interest on Liquid Assets                                   3,992
Cash Dividends                                              1,158
Gains on Sale of Portfolio (net)                              903
Gains on Sales                            1,361
Losses on Sales                             (70)
Losses on Liquidation                      (338)
Losses on Support Provided                  (50)
Interest on Term Sales from Portfolio                         505
Other Income                                                   28
Total                                       6,586
Expenses
Operating Expenses                                         14,699
Commissions (to NAFINSA) for Managing Liquid Assets         2,198
Feasibility Studies                                            50
Depreciation                                                  301
Pension Expense                                               174
Total                                      17,422
Profit (Loss)                                             (10,836)



Table 12: FOMIN'S BALANCE SHEET AS AT DECENBER 31, 1976
(Amounts in Mex$'000)
Short-term Assets                                                   Short-term Liabilities
Cash and Banks                     64                               Subscri4tions Payable                  500
NAFINSA Certificates of                                             Accounts Payable                     2,127           2,627
Participation               24,633       24,737
Long-term Liabilitites
Loans on Term Sale of Portfolio                5,527
Dividends Receivable                             279                  Pension Reserves                                       436
Employee Loans                                 2,252
Equity
Long-term Assets
Govt. Capital Contributions          250,000
Investments (at cost)                       181,936                 Prior term Profit (loss)             (19,811)
Current-Year's Profit (loss)         (10,836)       268.739
Advances on Subscriptions                      6,500                Adjustment for book value
Adjustment for book value of firms           (19,239)                 of firms                           (19,239)
Adjustment for revaluation of                                       Adjustient for revaluation of
fixed assets of firms                      68,625-                  fixed assets of firms               68,625
Total Liabilities Plus Equity                       271.802
Fixed Assets
Furniture and Equipment      1,157
Less Accumulated Depreciation 383              774
>c
Def erred Assets
Installation Expenses          851
Less Accumulated Amortization 440             411
Total Assets



ANNEX
T-13, T-14
Table 13: EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS NEEDED TO SUPPORT FOMIN'S
EXPECTED LEVEL OF INVESTMENTS, 1978-82
(Millions of 1977 Mex$)
Total Equity
Year         Through the Program (first stage)  Outside the Program            Contribution
Bank    Government   Total Program       From the Government
1978     22.7        18.6           41.3                  83.7                    125.0
1979     68.1        55.7         123.8                   51.2                    175.0
1980    111.5       91.2          202.7                   47.3                    250.0
1981     24.7       20.5           45.2                  204.8 X                  250.0
1982      -           -              -                   250.01                   250.0
Total   227.0      186.0          413.0                  637.0                  1,050.0
(Millions
of US$)  10.0         8.2          18.2                   28.1                     46.3
a/ Including possible later stages of the Program.
Table 14: FOMIN'S SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS, 1977-1982
(Millions of 1977 Mex$)
1977       1978       1979      1980       1981       1982
(Estimated)  (                    Projected)
Beginring Working Capital    22.1        14.7      17.0       20.0       25.0      25.0
Sources
Equity                     100.0      125.0     175.0      250.0     250.0      250.0
Sales                       19.2       27.8      35.8       48.9      71.2       93.5
Net Income                 (15.0)    (17.3)    (11.5)       (3.1)       7.4      13.7
Pension                      0.2        0.3       -          0.1       -          -
Amortization of Loans on Term
Sales of Portfolio         0.5        4.9        4.8      25.0       32.2      44.4
Amortization of Employee
Loans                      0.2        0.5       1.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
Total Sources          105.1     141.2      205.1      322.9     362.8      403.6
Applications
Investments                105.3      107.8     166.9      271.9     296.2      317.5
Loans on Term SAles
of Portfolio                4.8      25.0       32.2      44.0       64.1      84.1
Employee Loans               2.5        5.7       3.0        7.0       8.0        2.0
Fixed and Deferred
Assets                    (0.1)       0.4       -          -         0.5         -
Total Applications    112.5      138.9      202.1      317.9     362.8     403.6
Change in Working Capital   ( 7.4)        2.3        3.0       5.0        -         -
End of Period Working Capitall4-7        17.0       20.0      25.0       25.0      25.0



ANNEX 3
T-15
Table 15:  FOMIN'S PROJECTED INCOME STATEMNTS AND BALANCE SHEETS, 1976-1982 1/
(Mex$ millions)
INCOME STATENENT
1977 Pesos
1976       1977         1978      1979      1980      1981     1982
(Actual)  (Estimated)   (             Projected          -
Income                          6.6        6.0           5.1      11.5     19.9      32.4      43.7
Gains on Sale of Portf.(net)0.9          2.5           2.8       2.9      3.7       5.4       7.0
Dividends and Interest
in new instruments          1.2        0.9          1.4       5.7      12.4      21.3      30.0
Interest on Term Sales
of Portfolio                0.5        0.3          1.5       2.9       3.8       5.7       6.7
Employee Loans                 -         0.1            -        -         -         -         -
Interest on
Liquid Assets               4.0        2.2           -         -         -         -         -
Expenses                     17.4       21.0         23.0      23.0      23.0      25.0      30.0
Profit (Loss)                 (10.8)     (15.0)        (17.3)   (11.5)   ( 3.1)       7.4      13.7
BALANCE SHEET
Cash                           24.7       15.8          17.0     20.0      25.0      25.0      25.0
Portfolio                      188.4-/  274.5          354.5    485.6    708.6    933.6   1157.6
Loans on Term Sale of
Portf. and Dividends Receivalie 5.8        9.9         30.0      57.4      76.4    108.3    148.0
Employee Loans                  2.3        4.8         10.0      12.0      12.0      12.0      12.0
Fixed and Deferred
Assets                        1.2        1.1          1.5       1.5       1.5       2.0       2.0
Total Assets               >L-4       306.1        41i.U    57b.5    823.5   1080.9   1344.6
Short-term                      2.6        1.1          -         -         -        -          -
Pension Obligations             0.4        0.6          0.9       0.9       1.0       1.0       1.0
Equity                        250.0      350.0        475.0    650.0    900.0   1150.0   1400.0
Acc. Profit (Loss)             (19.8)     (30.6)       (45.6)   (62.9)   (74.4)   (77.5)   (70.1)
Current Year's Profit (Loss) (10.8)      (15.0)       (17.3)   (11.5)   ( 3.1)        7.4     13.7
Total Liabilities and
Networth                 222.4      306.1        413.0    576.5    823.5   1080.9   1344.6
Return on  Net Worth          -4.7       -4.8         -4.2    - 2.0       -0.4     +0.7      +1.0
1/ Projection Assumptions.
(a)  Investment capacity:  with no increase in staff, FOMIN can study 7 new projects/month
for 11 month/year. Average project size is Mex$4.0 million in 1978 rising to Mex$6.2
million in 1982. of those studied each year two thirds will become effective. Thus,
investments capacity would grow from Mex$200 million per year in 1978 to Mex$320 million
per year in 1982.
(b)  Sale of portfolio:  10% of prior year's portfolio valued at cost is sold each year;
10% of sales are for cash, 90% are financed at 5% (real) p.a. amortized over 2 years.
(c)  Dividends:  (on prior year's portfolio; cash only, stock dividends are considered part
of capital gains); 0.5% in 1978 portfolio, 1.6% in 1979 portfolio, 2.6% in 1980 and
3.0% in 1981-82 (real return).
(d)  Capital gains:  10% on sales of investments made before 1978, 4% p.a. (real) over a
holding period gradually lengthening from 2 to 5 years.
(e)  Employee loans and return on liquidity:  0% (real return).
(f)  See also para. 3.25 for assumptions regarding resources and level of operations.
2/ Includes advances but excludes adjustments shown on Table T-12.



Table 16: OPERATING RESULTS ON THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES (AS OF JUNE 1977)
Location of the                                                           Occupant Industries
Location of1 P;irk/ithe                                                 Prc-Con-                 Planned New   Incremental
or Commercial Center I/                              Oper-      Under      struction              Investments in  eployment to
or____________Center_1/_(hLand Sales                 ating   Construction   Phase        Total    Fixed A,le bs2e (N  ae
(ha)  (Mex$ miillions)                                      -mlins                      (No.)
1.  Aguascaltentes, Ags.    24.2        21.4          2          7          22            31         127        3,180
2.  Celays, Guanajuato      36.7        16.1          1          5          16            22         116           846
3.  Durango, Dgo.           47.2        11.9         11          4          10            25         131           712
4.  Framboyan, Veracruz     20.9         9.9          7          3           13          .23         147           779
5.  Linares, Nuevo Leon      3.6         2.4          -          4           6            10          14           135
6.  Merida, Yucatan         43.6        20.8         17         17          20            54         411         2,535
7.  Mexicali, Baja Calif.   28.0       113.0         20         20         264           304         700          940
8.  Morelia, Michoacan      18.1        13.1          6         13           6            25         182          428
9.  Queretaro, Qro.         78.0        18.2          5          2           2             9         642        1,275
10.  Tepic, Nayarita        46.2          7.9          3          2          13            18         102        1,337
11.  Tijuana, Baja Calif.    8.7         14.8          1          3          20            24         137          640
12.  Tizayuca, Hidalgo      42.2         36.3          2          3          13            18         636        1,500
13.  Villahermosa,Tabasco    37.4        17.9          8          9           9            26         332        1.606
Total                 434.8       303.6         83         92         414           589       3.677        15.913
1/ All projects are industrial parks/cities except the one at Mexicali, which is a commercial center.
2/ These figures represent the total new investment in fixed assets to be undertaken by firms locating on the ~'
industrial park.   It does not include the value of equipment already owned or operated by those firms who
are transferring their activities to the estate.
3/ These figures are gross and do not take into account the possible reduction of jobs in other locations by
existing firms transferring to the estate.



ANNEX 3
T-17
Table 17:  SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS FOR FIDEIN AND THE FIDEICOMISOS ESPECIALES
AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1976
(All amounts in Mex$ millions)
Consolidated for all
operating
FIDEIN         Fideicomisos Especiales
Assets                                      (UNAUDITED)             (UNAUDITED)
Current
Cash, Deposits, Marketable Sec.             0.7                23.2
Loans to Fideicomisos 1/                    8.7                 --
Mortgage Receivables 27                     --                116.5
Other Receivables                           4.7                62.5
Total Current Assets             14.1              202.2
Fixed
Buildings and Equipment                     0.5                 2.9
Land Inventory -                            --                876.3
Deferred Charges                            0.1                 7.8
Total Fixed Assets                0.6              887.0
Total Assets                     14.7            1,089.2
Liabilities
Current                                     0.8               23.8
Long Term                                   --               140.9
Deferred Credits                            0.2               34.2
Total Liabilities                 1.0              198.9
Equity
Federal Government 4/                      13.9              485.5
State Governments                           --               127.8
Others                                      --               292.4
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit) 5/            (0.2)             (15.4)
Total Equity                     13.7              890.3
Total Liabilities & Equity       14.7           1,089.2
1/ Advances to Fideicomisos with unspecified maturity.
2/ Deferred payments on land sales.
3/ Value of developed land turned over to Fideicomisos by SAHOP, net of sales.
4/ Government net equity in FIDEIN equals total funds advanced (Mex$78 million) less
portion of FIDEIN's expenditures (Mex$64.1 million) either written off or transferred
to equity in Fideicomisos.
5/ The Fideicomisos' cumulative deficit of Mex$15.4 million reflects losses on land sold
below costs of development.



ANNEX 3
T-18, T-19
Table 18: EXECUTION SCHEDULE OF THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SUBPROGRAM
YEAR   1978/79  1979/80    1980/81  1981/82    Total
Factory Buildings-/
Sq. Meters                        10,800   18,000        21,600   21,600    72,000
% of total constructed                15        25           30        30        100
Common Service Centers
Number                                --         1            1         1          3
% of total constructed                --        33           33        33        100
Equipment Leasing
% of total                            10        20           30        40        100
1/ Based on 80 buildings averaging about 900 sq.m. each or a total of 72,000 sq.m. of
factory space to be constructed over 4 years.  Typically, buildings would be with
bays of 10 x 10 m. to 10 x 15 m. in area and 3-6 m. clear height, depending on the
specific requirements of the occupant firms. Construction and building specifica-
tions would conform to normal Mexican standards for light factories.
Table 19: CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE OF THE INDUSTRIAL ESTATES SUBPROGRAM
(All amounts in millions of constant 1977 Mex$ unless otherwise specified)
YEAR    1978/79   1979/80       1980/81   1981/82  Total
A.  Factory Buildings
Estimated cost in 19771/            19.5       32.5         39.0      39.0    130.0
Phys. contingency (10%)              2.0        3.3          3.9       3.9      13.0
Base Line Cos5/                  21.5       35.8         42.9      42.9    143.0
Price Escalation-                    1.8        6.4         11.9      16.6      36.7
Installed Cost                      23.3       42.2         54.8      59.5    179.7
3/
B.  Common Service Centers-                --        3.3          3.3      3.4      10.0
C.  Equipment Leasin g                    1.0        2.0          3.0      4.0      10.0
Total A + B + C               24.3       47.5         61.1     66.9    199.7-/
Total US$                      1.0        2.1          2.7       3.0      8.8
1/ Assumed to be US$1,800 per sq. m.
2/ Price escalation factors of 8.5% per year are applied to take account of: (i) the
slightly higher rate of increase expected in construction costs compared to the
general price level in Mexico (3.5%); and (ii) the general deflation in the US dollar
value into which the prices are finally converted (5.0%).
3/ Expenditures are given in constant peso terms including physical and price contingen-
cies since precise base line estimates are not available.
4/ Rounded to Mex$200 million in estimates of total Program costs.



Table 20: CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS FOR LEASE AND SALE OF FACTORY BUILDINGS
(All amounts in millions of constant 1977 Mex$ and refer to each year ending June 30)
(1978)    (1979)      (1980)       (1981)      (1982)      (1983)     (1984)     (1985)      (1986)     (1987)      (1988)       (1989)      (1990)
Year  1          2           3           4            5           6          7          8           9          10          11           12          13
Cash Flows from Operations
1.  Buildings Leased                    --      10,800      28,800      50,400      72,000       63,900   50,400       34,200       18,000    18,000       18,000      18,000        18,000
(sq. m cumulative)
2.  Lease Revenue a/                     -         3.9        10.4        18.1        25.9         23.0       18.1        12.3         6.5        6.5         6.5         6.5           6.5
3.  Buildings Sold (sq. m) b/                       --          --          --          --        8,100   13,500       16,200       16,200         --          --           --           --
4.  Sales Revenue c/                                      --                 --          --         12.8      21.4        25.7        25.7         --           --          --           --
5.       Total Revenue                  --         3.9        10.4        18.1        25.9          35.8     39.5         38.0        32.2        6.5         6.5         6.5           6.5
6.  Capital Investment                  --        19.5        32.5        39.0           --           --        --          --          --         --          --           --
7.  Operating Costs of                  --         0.4         1.2         2.0         2.9           2.6      2.0          1.4         0.7        0.7         0.7         0.7           0.7
Fideicomisos d/
8.  Geheral and Administrative         0.5         1.0         1.5         2.0         2.0           i.5       1.0         1.0         1.0        0.5         0.5          0.5          0.5
Costs of FIDEIN Central
Office e/
9.  Ntt Cash Flow from Operations  (0.5)         (17.0)      (24.8)      (24.9)      (18.0)        31.7      36.5         35.6        30.5        5.3         5.3          5.3          5.3
/(5) - (16) - (7) _(
Financing Flows
10.  FIDEIN Loans                                  19.5        32.5        39.0        39.0
11.  Debt Service f/                                1.0         4.6         8.2        13.7         17.6      L6.6        15.6         14.4       13.5        12.8        12.1          11.5
12.  Net Financing Flows /(10) - (112/             18.5        27.9        31.8        25.3        (17.6)   (16.6)       (15.6)       (14.4)     (13.5)      (12.8)      (12.1)        (11.5)
13.  Total Net Cash Flows /(9) +    (0.5)           1.5         3.1         6.9         7.3         14.1      19.9        20.0         20.1       (8.2)       (7.5)       (6.8)         (6.2)
/(9) + (12f/
a/  18% of development cost of land and building or 0.18 x 1980 = Mex$360/sq. m (rounded).
b/ Assuming that the average option is exercised on 75% of buildings in 5th year of lease.
c/ Sales price = value of land and building (adjusted for inflation and other factors) less 20% to account for partial compensation for accummulated rent (=Mex$1,580/sq. m).
d/ Includes costs of promotion, maintenance and overheads; estimated at 2% p.a. of capital cost of land and buildings.
e/  To support up to five additional employees at FIDEIN's central office.
f/  Includes principal repayments and interest payments due.  Buildings 100% debt financed at 13.0% p.a., 12 years maturity including 2 years grace.



Table 21: COMPUTATION OF THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE COST CONTENT OF PROGRAM FINANCING
(All amounts in millions of 1977 Mex$ unless otherwise specified)
Percentame Distribution of Total Investment
dtt-tne sneir                               Estimated Percentage
Purchases                                     of Direct and
Directly    of Locally         Cons-               Other   Indirect Foreign          Estimated          Total         Foreign Exchange
Total Invest-   Imported    Manufactured    truc-   Working   Local   Exchange Content                Total Foreign    Program          Costs as : of
Subprogram                       ment Cost         Equipment   Equipment          tion    Capital   Costs   of ProJect Costs 1/    Exchange Costs   Financing    Total Program Finarcing
Credit and Guarantees                 1656                                                                             -                      754            1246                   60.5
-  Credit                             1646            34.0          26.0           18.5      21.5       -             45.8                    754
-  Reserve for Guarantees               10              -             -              -         -      100.0            -                       -
Risk Capital                           913            34.0          26.0           18.5      21.5       -             45.8                   418              413                  101.2
Industrial Parks                       205                                                                             -                      24              205                   11.7
-  Factory Buildings                   185               -            -           100.0        _        -             10.0                     18
-  Comrmon Services                     10              -             -           100.0        -        -             10.0                      1
-  Equipnient Leasing                   10            25.0          75.0             -         -        -             47.5                      5
Technical Assistance 2/                225            20.0            _       -                -        -             10.2                    45              200                   22.5
TOTAL   Max$              2999                                                                                                  1241             2064                   59.1
US$ equivalent   132.2                                                                                                    54.7            91.0
U tsing conservative assumptions of indirect foreign exchange cost content - 301 for off-the-shelf
purchases or locally manufactured equipment (based on the estimates of the Report of the NAPINSA
UNIDO Capital Goods Study which has just been released), and 10Z for construction and for
working capital (the latter two based on Banco de Mexico estimates of 1976).
2/ Bank financing for the Technical Assistance Subprogram would cover only the costs of any
directly imported equipment necded for specielized technical assist.nce, and the direct
foreign exchange costs of providing training to the extension agents and to the central
staff of the Program's Secretariat.
I-an



ANNEX 3
T-22
Table 22: LOCATIONS OF NAFINSA'S REGIONAL OFFICES AND FOGAIN'S FIELD REPRESENTATIVES 1/
Whether the office has a
NAFINSA Regional Office                        FOGAIN Representative 2/
1.  Acapulco, Guerrero                                          X
2.  Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua                                    X
3.  Culiacan, Sinalon                                           x
4.  Jalapa, Veracruz                                            X
5.  Leon, Guanajuato                                            X
6.  Merida, Yucatan                                             X
7.  Monterrey, Neuvo Leon                                       X
8.  Morelia, Michoacan                                          X
9.  Tampico, Tamaulipas                                         X
10.  Tijuana, Baja California                                    X
11.  Villahermosa, Tabasco                                       X
12. Guadalajara, Jalisco
13. Puebla, Puebla
14. To:luca, State of Mexico
15. Torreon, Coahuila
1/ A map of Mexico showing these locations is included in Chart 4.
2/ "X" indicates location with FOGAIN's representative.



Chart 1: ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF FOGAIN 1/
TechTical CoSu itts e
Department e         _rector drogeaming
Control Dept.
(     ()                             (7)                            (8)
Crti                 Promotion and                 Economic 6Statis-                         llr                        m snis
Analysla                Technical Assist-             tical Studies                        ntmer                         trat
s                      r. ance Department         Departmant                                                           e
} (1)                ~~~~(6)                               (4)
10)            (9)            I   ,         INS.(7)                                                         (9)
4fto( too              Regional
,pr s   Snore     quorttrs |   Represren-                                                                                    tSems an
)   (9)       , St ff  l    ~~(WINSA' t                                   lCsn|          > XJPo               3)          Areh5vea
10)~( 7)                          RogelMal                                                         ceSg      f                    (2)
Offices)
(11)
Numbers within parentheses indicate the number of staff in the respective section ot department head's office.
I:j
>



Chart 2: ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF FOMIN 1/
Technical Committee
Director
|   Manager                                                   Assistant Manager
Apraisal Dept.                Legal Dept.                    Portfolio Control             [ S ales Dept.
(7)                           (3)                            Dept. (7)
Statistics and Ad-
ministrative Office
1/ Numbers in parenthesis indicate the number of professionals in each unit.



ANNEX 3
C-3
Chart 3: ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF FIDEIN
Technical
Comaittee
tee
ra~
ince        LalPromotion 6                                    Public
Marketing          P    ci R.la_io_.
I                                                                                  I
*                                                                                  I
I                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
B          Cmiti. ~                               iy           eltin
.......          .elft.                                SH-
I                                                                                  p
O                                    .d
tri   Estates                          Developmen.                .



-"'MExrcAV~~N                                                                                                                                                                                    -         I- I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ely~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                                  l
N                                           'IN          2                                                                IIIt1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NLNI
0  1)                                                          Nll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N:   :
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    I   ~ C 'M~1ii  "
>                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,iM ~I W-  4 ~ vi
A>                                                                           K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S5~~
K~~~~~~~~~~t ~ ~ ~ O            7 7w                       t     EON                                                       (A%
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~
A7~   
Nt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t- 
SA       AOuASCAL ISlES            -II  17L,                    !O                                                        SA' ~;
K                       MORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I AC              I'i 
L0001IONAE ThE 000500 ALFAEKJAITR OS  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4LIERACNSUIZ;~u                                              ~      '
U                                         Ill                                                QEBLA                 ERAMSOYAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~skIV n
I                                                                                                                                                 A     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF--cr  
K   I   I       I                 I                                                                                                                                                                N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i I  L  '    O  T~  .k Mn~Lm,.
I   I   I                                                                                                       &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
r. 02 ~    ~          ~          t/                                           II
L7~ ~ ~ ~~~(LA
1,00                                                                                                                                                                                                    9      <-4-.~Q






ANNEX 4
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. The Manufacturing Sector and the Financial System
Al    "Characteristicas de la Industria Mediana y Pequena en Mexico"
(Three Volumes), prepared and published by FOGAIN (1974).
A2    Analysis of Data from the 1970 Industrial Census of Mexico (Computer
Printouts).
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl    Proposal for a "Programa Integral para Apoyo a la Industria Pequena
y Mediana" (Integrated Program to Assist SMI) prepared by NAFINSA (1977).
B2    Government Decrees Establishing FOGAIN, FOMIN, and FIDEIN.
B3    Operating Regulations of FOGAIN.
B4    Operating Regulations of FOMIN.
B5    Operating Regulations of FIDEIN.
B6    The Project Implementation Document submitted by NAFINSA in connection
with the Integrated Program for SMI Development.
C. Selected Workings Papers Prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
CG    "Study of the Investment Policies and Practices of FOMIN", consultants'
report prepared by Alan Patricof Associates, Inc. (1977).
C2    "Financing of Small and Medium Sized Industries - Proposals for a
Credit Guarantee Scheme"; consultants' report prepared by Mr. Lauren
B. Hart (1977).



