LN- lS5a-'E
focumnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt N. P-2288-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BAIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH TIE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INMUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1978
n ob s e£ad Lu a ried ft&'bw m d we be sd by red4eut a uly in the Pc!omzw  of 
tber I~erLd*ia lb estats my sat  ww  be isc!eesd fitubat we i4lak ap±borhudea.






Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$12.50 which had prevailed
since 1954 was abandoned on August 31, 1976 and the Mexican peso has been
floating since then. In recent weeks the rate of exchange has fluctuated
in the range of Mex$22-23 to the US dollar. On March 30, 1977, the peso
traded at 22.75 per UI dollar.
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
ACF      =   Average Cost of Financiera borrowed funds (which stood at
14.7 percent in February 1978).
FIDEIN   =   Fideicomisc dp Cunjintos, Parques y Ciudddes Industriales
(Trust Fund for Industrial Parks, Sites and Cities).
FOGAIN   =   Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y Pequefla
(Trust Fund for Guarantees and Development of Medium and
Small Scale Irdustry).
FONEI    =   Fondo para Equipamiento Industrial (Trust Fund for
Industrial Equipment).
FOMIN    =   Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (National Trust Fund
for Industrial Development).
NAFINSA  =   Nacional Financiere, S. A.



FOt OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borro,er:              Nacional Financiera, S.A (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:             United Mexican States
Prolect Executing      Nacional Financiera S.A. in its own right and as
Agency:              trustee for FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN, Federal
Government trust funds created to serve the
needs of small and medium scale industrial enter-
prises..
Amount,                US$47 million equivalent
Terms:                 Fifteen years, including four years of grace and
interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:       FOGAIN would lend to financial intermediaries in local
currency. Until December 31, 1978 final borrowers would
be charged interest rates averaging 16 percent yearly;
as of January 1, 1979 interest rates on new loans would
be reviewed at least once yearly to average between one
and three percentage points above the average borrowing
rate of financieras, which stood at 14.7 percent in
February 1978.  Through FIDEIN, industrial buildings
and equipment would be leased with or without options to
to buy, imputing financial costs similar to those under
the FOGAIN component. FOMIN would make minority equity
investments, and investments in preferred shares and
other instruments, in enterprises with industrial
projects.
Project Description:  The project aims at expanding the production capacity
and improving the efficiency of small and medium scale
industrial enterprises by means of a comprehensive
program of technical and financial assistance. Special
emphasis would be given to meeting the needs of enter-
prises located outside the main urban concentrations.
FOGAIN would provide credit through financial inter-
mediaries and guarantee credit from financial inter-
mediaries to finance fixed assets and associated working
capital; minority equity investments would be made
directly by FOMIN; industrial estate facilities, building
and equipment leasing services on industrial estates
would be provided through FIDEIN, and technical assistance
would be provided by Nacional Financiera and other
specialized institutions. The project faces no special
risks, though some components may develop more slowly
than others.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs and                     (millions of US dollars)
Sources of
Financing:                 Total cost of      Portion
investment to    financed by    of which financed
Enterprises        proiect          by Bank loan
FOGAIN, credits and
guarantees                      73               55                  30
FOMIN, equity invest-
ments                           40               18                  10
FIDEIN, building and
equipment leasing                9                9                   5
Technical Assistance               10               9                    2
132              91                  47
The Bank loan would finance 55 petrent of FOGAIN's,
FOMIN's and FIDEIN's contributions to total invest-
ment costs and $2 million of technical assistance
costs. The loan would finance about 85 percent of
the total foreign exchange costs of the project. Com-
plementary resources would be provided to Nacional
Financiera by the Government and the Banco de Mexico.
Disbursements:         The loan is expected to be disbursed as follows:
Fiscal Year          1979     1980      1981     1982
- ---- -S$ millions --- ---
Annual               10.0      17.5     13.5       6.0
Cumulative           10.0     27.5      41.0     47.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              1811b-HE of April 3, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
T'o THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE! GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMZNT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$47 million to help finance a small and medium
scale industry development project. The loan would bear interest at 7.5
percent per annum and would have a repayment period of 15 years, including
4 years of grace. USS30 million of the proposed loan would be onlent through
FOGAIN, a trust fund managed by NAFINSA for the Federal Government, to indus-
trial enterprises in Pesos at fixed average rates of interest of 16 percent
up to December 31, i978 and from one to three percentage points above the
average borrowing rate of financieras thereafter. NAFINSA would carry the
foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico in
April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion which
follows reflects the preliminary findings of the mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decadoO preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in pricets and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averag.d less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct inveatments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening of
contrasts within tne Mexican economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could
not improve their economic status in the absence of basic infrastructure,
credit, and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social
equity even more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accel-
erated steadily, primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached
3.5 percent per year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16, 1978).



-2-
growth rate made adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employ-
ment difficult. Some 40 percent of the labor force is either relatively
unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experien-d increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976-- the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating between 22 and 23 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million.
For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-
year stablization program was negotiated which could provide as much as
an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes
effective. Thus, total IMF support for the Government's program may exceed
USS1.3 billion.  The new Government ratified the agreew at with the IMF
shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has complied
with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also called
for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private
investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth
of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum offered
profitable investment opportunitie- in the petroleum sector; indeed, increased
production for export of these products seemed by far the best way to meet a
large part of Mexico's high debt servicc requirements in the coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities are adooting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Gcvern-
ment's program include progressive control of inflation together with a
return to high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978. Better manage-
ment of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control
in public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage
increases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the
private sector are important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation in the twelve months of 1977 slowed to 20.7
pe-cent (January-December) as compared to an annual rate of 60 percent in
the last three months of 1976. The deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments has been reduced, and is estimated preliminarily at
US$2.2 billion for 1977, compared to USS3.5 billion in 1976. Total public
sector financial requirements dropped from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.9



-3-
percent in 197;. Mobilization of savings by the banking system is increas-
ing. Perhaps most importantly, there is a general feeling of increased confi-
dence in the Government's economic policy.
9.        The stabilization effort during 1977 was absolutely necessary, but
its price has been the continuation of economic stagnation; for a second
year in a row GDP grew only, by about 2 percent in real terms, implying a
further decline of real per capita income. While control of inflation will
remain as the overriding short-term objective--the Government's announced
target is to reduce inflation to about 12-15 percent during 1978--the 1978
economic program aims at a simultaneous recovery of economic activity
through a recovery of private and public investment. Increased public sector
savings, further strengthening of the financial system and therefore in-
creased availability of credit to the private sector, and continuation of a
carefully managed wage policy (the annual increase in minimum wages agreed
upon in January 1978 averaged about 14 percent) are the main means the
Government will rely upon to attain the above objectives.
Economic Issues and Prospects
10.       As Mexico looks ahead, the key problems that its economic policies
must address would seem to include the following:
(a)  Many Mexican families have not participated in the sustained
economic growth of che last several decades. As of 1975,
about 4,600,000 Mexican families--45 percent of the total--
recelve incomes equal to less than one-half the national
avera3e. The members of most of these families work--more
than half of them in agriculture--but they produce little
and receive little. Mexico's labor force is now growing
even more rapidly than in the past--it will grow at about
3.6 percent per year over the next decade, which implies an
average annual increase by some 670,000 workers during 1978-82;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year.
The challenge of providing productive jobs for both new
entrants and existing under-productive workers is an awesome
one.
(b) Crop and livestock production in Mexico, which had grown by
6 percent per year during 1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year
during 1955-65, grew at only 2.1 percent per year during
1965-75. This near-stagnation of agricultural production
signals the end of the strategy in which growth of agricul-
tural production came from newly irrigated land, while rain-
fed agriculture was relatively neglected. The continued
expansion of large-scale irrigation, so successful from
1945 into the 1960s, has brought lower and lower returns as
the works became costlier and easily accessible export markets
for high-value crops became more nearly saturated. New
approaches are required now to assure both production growth,
and increases in income for Mexico's poor rural families.



-4-
(c) The size and role of the State in the economy has been a
subject of much .iscussion in Mexico in recent years.
During 1970-76, private investment slowed down, and virtually
stagnated since 1975. This was, in part, a consequence of
the pre-emption of credit by the public sector (during the
six-year period, the share of the public sector in the
economy grew from 15.0 to 21.5 percent), combined with infla-
tionary financing and accompanied by what some perceived as
an "anti-business" attitude. Public statements by the present
Administration indicate that it wants to reverse this trend.
(d) The present large foreign debt and sizable public finance
deficit are mainly the direct outcomes of past public sector
inability to mobilize adequate financial resources. By the
early 1980s, large increases in export revenues, mainly from
petroleum and related products, should make both the foreign
debt problem and public finances much easier to manage. In
the meantime, however, larger public sector savings are
required to reduce inflationary pressures and to release
credit for the private sector.
(e) The rapid growth and heavy concentrations of people and
production in Mexico City, and the scarcicy of employment
opportunities and services in rural areas, are important
challenges which have to be confronted. Both equity and
efficiency considerations imply a need for diversion of
some of Mexico City's future growth to,.other regions, as
well as the provision of basic public services and enhanced
employm-nt opportunities in selected villages and small
towns.
11.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
14), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining five years of the present Administration.
kesumption of economic growth comtined with the intensification of the
Government's family plar2ning program (on October 28, 1977 President Lopez
Pcrtillo announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to
2.5 percent per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3
percent by 1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed
agriculture, and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing
productive employnent should help to address the structural problems mentioned
above (para. 10).
12.       In agriculture, the Government's quick action to defuse tensions
created by land invasions and expropriations at the end of 1976, and its
decision to review the legislation concerning land and water use, should
reduce uncertainty and induce a better use of the available land and water
resources. In addition, the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture--which has
been relatively neglected in the past--should lead to an increase in the



-5-
production potential of vast areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal
of the past trend towards larger income disparities between the modern and
traditional agricultural subsectors. Development of intensive agriculture in
the tropics and of a nationwide program to construct small irrigation and
drainage works are also new features of the Government's agricultural policy.
These initiatives, together with the more realistic exchange rate and
remunerative support prices, promise a resumption of growth of production for
both domcstic and export markets and increase the possibilities of an improve-
ment in the living conditions of the rural poor.
13.       Industry has potential for considerable gro1-h in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petroc,emicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
Increases in tourism export earnings are also expected.
14.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discover-
ies of rich petroleum fields. The Government has deci&d4 to use these large
hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service burden and to
enhance the country's over-all development prospects. To meet this objective,
PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, tae State-owned oil monopoly) has launched an
ambitious six-year investment program amounting to US$17.0 billion in 1977
prices (about 25 percent of total public investment). This program would:
(a)  almost triple the production of all and condensates, from 292
million bbl/year itn 1976 to 818 million bbl/year in 1982;
(b)  more than double the country's primary distillation
capacity, from 270 million bbl/year in 1976 to 577 million
bbl/year in 1982;
(c)  substantially increase production of primary petrochemicals
(ammonia, ethylene, benzene, etc.) as well as downstream
products (styrene, vinyl-chloride, polyethy'lene); and
(d) enable exDort of natural gas at a rate of 2.0 billion
cubic feet/day by 1982.
Under this program, the value of exports of oil and related products would
increase over ten times, from about IJS$0.9 billion in 1977 to more than
US$10.0 billion in 1982. If this program were to be carried out on schedule,
and incentives maintained for non-petroleum exports, the balance of payments
on current account would shift from a deficit of US$2.1 billion in 1977 to
surplus of about US$3.0 billion in 1982.
15.       The prospect of rapidly riaing petroleum exports, as well as
previously mentioned prospects for increases in tourism earnings, recovery of
agricultural production and exports, and resumption of growth of manufactured
exports, have greatly strengthened the balance of payments outlook. Even on



-6-
the basis of somewhat more conservative projections of petroleum production
and exports than those mentioned above, the current account deficit can be
expected to decline steadily over the next several years and become slightly
positive by 1982, thus reducing Mexico's net external borrowing requirements
(Annex I). The debt service ratio has been increasing over the recent past,
reaching 46 percent in 1977. It is expected to peak in 1979 at slightly over
50 percent and decline sharply thereafter to levels around 30 percent in the
early 1980's. Debt service on Bank loans amounts to about 4 percent of public
debt service; this ratio is projected to decrease over the next two years and
to increase to some extent afterwards. The Bank currently holds about 8
percent of Mexico's total medium and long term public debt, and this ratio is
likely to increase to some extent over the next few years. Mexico remains
creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms considering the country's
strong medium- and long-term potential and the comprehensive economic strategy
which the Government has adopted to realize it.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
16.       As of February 28, 1978, Mexico had received 50 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2624.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1486.4 millior were fully disbursed. As of
February 283 1978, the Bank held US$2142.2 million of which US$787.2 mill!Ta
had not yet been disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for
agriculture and rural development ;15 loans for US$923.4 million), 27 percent
for power (12 loans for US$7-34.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation
projects (12 loans for US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been
for industry (US$205.5 million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism
(US114 million) projects. Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program and
be.cause of scarcity of counterpart funds, some projects fell behind schedule
In 1976 and 1977.  Following review with the C3vernment, a steel loan was
terminated (Sec M77-258 of April 5, 1977), the scope of an irrigation project
was reduced and US$100 million from the original US$150 million loan were
cancelled (R77-305 of December 13, 1977) and the scope of several other
projects has been modified. Other projects under implementation and affected
by the stabilization program are being reviewed by the Government and further
discussions will be held with the Bank shortly. By and large, adequate budget
support for the ongoing projects has now been secured. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
17.       As of February 28, 1978, IFC has made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.5 million, of which US$38.3 million had been sold,
1/   Part II is subztantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16, 1978).



-7-
repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.2 million,
conslsts of US$26.2 million in loans and US$5.0 million in equlty. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of February 28, 1978 is presented it. Anrex II.
Bank Strategv
18.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to: (I)
support policies and programs lead. g to a wider distribution of the benefits
of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leaJin% to continued
economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make ciirei:tly or
indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and employment;
and (iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is c-icrently
facing. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects that make relatively
modest demands on budgetary resources and have a strong positive balance of
payments effect, projects of nigh social priority that help the rural or urban
poor, projects that promote higher levels of employment and those that heip to
decentralize economic activity. The project under consideration fulf ills
several of these criteria. It will have a significant employment impact, help
even out income distribution by assisting small enterprises and those employ-
ing labor intensive methods, and assist in decentralizing industrial activity.
Moreover, since it aims at bringing about significant improvements in the
institutional framework for dealing with small and medium scale industry, its
benefits are likely to be feLt beyond completion of the project.
19.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial importance to the couatry's further e velopment, rhe
Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. Consistent
with the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a three-tier
approach has been developed. First, to strengthen infrastructure development
and agricultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly
growing population more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed
for rising import requirements. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural
poor and improve their standards of living through a combination of directly
productiv-,support and social infrastructure investments. Third, to strengthen
Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agricultural resources more
efficiently. In support of this strategy, the Bank has made seven loans over
the past four years, totalling US$579 million, for irrigation, rural develop-
ment and agriculture and livestock credit programs. In FY77, the Executive
Directors approved a US$120 million loan for an Integrated Rural Development
Project--PIDER II-under which some 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from
directly productive activities. This fiscal year, an agricultural development
project focusing on the humid tropics !.s being considered by the Executive
Directors on April 25. An agriculture credit project is being processed for
presentation to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
20.       Bank lendiug for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas. Thus, a major steel project which the Bank helped finance has recently
started operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west coast of
Mexico and the Executive Directors approved a US$50 million loan in FY75 to
support a fertilizer project which promotes new poles of development in the
resource-rich southeast region and the north central r a.



A third Industrial Equipment Fund project and a fertilizer project are currently
being processed for submission to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
21.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing:  the Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway ProJect (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) has been instrumental in the estab-
lishment of d specialized institution for efficient supply of bulk drinking
water in the Mexico Valley, and in the pricing of water at levels mere closely
related to costs.
22.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
eronomic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In Juue 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide - new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over conc.atration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas, and several projects are now being
prepared to meec the needs £or basic urban services for poor families in
selected priortty cities. A projact tc assist in the development of the
conurbation zone of Lazaro Cardenas is being .ubmitted for consideration of
the Executive Directors on April 25.
23.       The Government, pressed to reduce the external deficit on currer"
account, is giving emphasis to the tourism sector to generate higher foreign
exchange earnings and promote employment. In support of this policy, the Bank
has granted three loans for tourism projects in Mexico; two to provide infra-
structure in new poles of tourism and one, approved by the Executiie Directors
earlier this year, to help finance tourism superstructure.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
BackRround
24.       Over the last decades, manufacturing has grown rapidly in Mexico
and has played an important role in providing employment opportunities. 1/
It Airectly employed about one quarter of the new entrants to the labor force
between 1950 and 1969. In 1970, manufacturing accountad for approximately
23 percent of gross domestic product, directly employed 17 percent of the
labor force and probably provided indirect employment through related activi-
ties to a similar proportion. Growth in the volume of manufacturing sector
output was 9 percent per year during the 1960s, considerably more rapid than
the 7 percent per year growth in gross domestic product. During 1970-1975
1/   A full review of the industrial sector of Mexico may be found in
"Mexico: Manufacturing Sector - Situation, Prospects and Policies"
Dated May 1, 1977, Report No. 1671-ME.



- 10 -
28.       Foreign owned enterprises have made an important contribution to
industrial production and expansion in Mexico and have been instrumental in
transferring technology. Despite regulation of foreign ownership and of
paymeats for foreign technology, patents and trademarks introduced in 1973,
foreign private investment remained buoyant throughout 1973 to 1975. During
the period, foreign capital accounted for about 25 percent of total new
industrial investment. In 1976 and 1977 the pace of investment slackened
because of recessionary conditions and the uncertainties caused by the peso
devaluation, but the investment climate has now improved significantly. In
the future, the authorities intend to promote joint ventures in which private
domestic shareholders, foreign investors and the public sector each have an
interest in new ventures in the industrial field. This type of t.ipartite
agreement could provide substantial benefits to further industrial development,
particularly in industries requiring advanced technologies, extensive markets
and substantial capital, where contributions of all three parties could
complement each other best.
Protection
29.       Mexico's industrialization strategy has emphasized import substitu-
tion, and protection for local manufacturing remains an important feature of
industrial policy. Protection was given both by tariffs and, more importantly,
by quantitative restrictions. Although some tariffs were as high as 100 per-
cent, most lay in the 10-30 percent range. Horeover, tariffs have been subject
to numerous exceptions, especially for imports of capital goods. Quantitative
restrictions on the other hand became more widespread as the process of import
substitution progressed. However, levels of realized protection have not Deen
excessive for most products, and the industrial sector has developed with
reasonable efficienc,r. With import substitution almost complete in many
industrial subsectors, government policy is now encouraging improvement in
efficiency In those subsectors where prices are still above international
levels, and in areas where there are significant opportuniities for further
import substitution such as the mechanical engineering, capital goods and
basic and secondary chemicals. The trend towards stricter import licensing
was reversed in 1977; to promote increased efficiency of manufacturing
industry, licensing requirements are being relaxed and tariffs are being
rationalized.
Exports
30.       Since 1970, increased emphasis has been given to promoting manufac-
tured exports. Export incentives were introduced in 1971 and included
rebates of indirect taxes, duty exemptions on imported inputs and increased
credit to finance export sales. These measures resulted in manufactured
exports growing at 39 percent annually in dollar terms be ween 1970 and 1974,
compared to 12 percent annually in the previous five years. Excluding exports
by border assembly industries, manufactured exports reached $1.2 billion in
1974, or 20 percent -f total goods and service exports. During 1975 and 1976,



- 11 -
the world recession and the increasing over-valuation of the peso led to a
decline in manufactured exports measured in constant prices, but with the
devaluation in late 1976 and the economic recovery that is now starting, manu-
factured export performance should improve noticeably. The Government has
successfully avoided an acceleration of inflation following the large deval-
uation in 1976, and moderate cost increments as well as adjustments in the
exchange rate since then have enabled most exporting firms to remain competi-
tive. The bulk of exports come from large firms, though in some sectors such
ai food, apparel and footwear, a significant proportion is produced by medium
sized firms. Increasing attention is being given to the role of industrial
associations and trading companies in promoting exports by smaller companies.
Industrial Financing
31.       Mexico's well developed banking syqtem, comprising more than 201
public, private and mixed ownership institutions, has been the primary
source of financing for industry. Commercial banks arid investment banks
(financieras) make industrial loans and investments primarily from resources
they mobilize via current accounts, deposits and the issue of certificates and
bonds, but they also have access to discounting facilities with public sector
trust funds administered by the Banco de Mexico and NAFINSA, the main public
sector development bank serving industry. During the late 1960s and early
1970s the banking system developed rapidly and the volume of outstanding
credit grew faster than GDP. Mexico's open financial system allowed a free
flow of capital, and the long period of exchange stability encouraged foreign
4eposits in Mex__an banks and foreign borrowings by Mexican firms. Credit '-'ds
readily obtained by industrial firms judged to be a raasonable credit risk;
nevertheless, smaller f'rms had some difficulty in securing credit. The Fondo
de Garantia y Foinento a la Industria Mediana y Pequea' (FOGAIN), a trust fund
administered by NAFINSA, in part overcame this deficiency by making resources
specifically earmarked for small and medium size enterprises available to
financial intermediaries.
32.       Over the 1972-76 period industrialists suffered from an increasingly
severe shortage of credit. The volume of financial resources of the banking
system was reduced by declines in the real interest rate, deteriorated differ-
entials between domestic and foreign interest rates and, towards the end of
the period, devaluation expectations. The real stock of domestically financed
cre6it to both the pu'blic and private sectors was 12 percent lower at the
end of 1976 than at the end of 1972, while GDP had grown some 23 percent in
the meantime. Credit tco industry was further reduced as available credit was
increasingly preempted to finance public sector expenditures and due priority
was given to agricultural activities in allocating the remaining resources.
In the months before and after the 1976 devaluation, financial savings con-
tracted sharply and capital flight accentuated, while the larger companies
which previously relied on borrowings from foreign commercial sources, suffered
heavy losses due to the devaluation and started to rely incriasingly on
domestic borrowings.
33.       To boost peso denominated savings and reverse capital flight,
investment banks and mortgage banks were authorized to offer higher interest
rates to savers in May ]L977. This has had a positive impact on the volume



- 12 -
of peso savings captured by banks.  The Mexican authorities have declared
their intention of allowing further adjustment in rates so as to make a
healthy growth of financial savings possible. On the lending side, banks
and financieras have been switching progressively to a system of floating
interest rates on medium and long term loans to reflect increased uncertain-
ties about the future cost of funds. Most banks are now relating their
interest rates to the index of the average cost of funds borrowed by the
financieras (ACF index), which is calculated monthly by Banco de Mexico.
Between May 1977 and February 1978 this index has increased from 11.9 percent
to 14.7 percent in response to the increased interest rates paid to savers.
Changes have also been made in the on-lending rates of the trust funds,
several of which are now relating their rates to the ACF Index.
Prospe:ts
34.       The Government is firmly committed to a policy of increasing employ-
ment opportunities, particularly in urban areas through an expansion of
industrial activity. In view of the success achieved by the new administra-
tion during 1977 in stabilizing the economy and restoring private sector con-
fidence, and considering the favorable industrial policies being followed by
this administration, prospects appear good for industry to regain by the early
1980s the high rates of growth achieved in the 1960s. Industrial output is
expected to grow as rising petroleum output and exports reduce the foreign
exchange constraint and stimulate the economy. There are substantial oppor-
tunities for growth in a number of industrial subsectors. Given the Govern-
ment's policy of improving efficiency by liberalizing the import licensing
system and rationalizing tariffs, and the large demand for machinery and
equipment resulting from the expansion of petroleum industry and basic and
secondary petrochemicals, the capital goods industry is presented with an
excellent opportunity to expand along efficient lines. Mexican industry also
has an excellent opportunity to continue building on the successful export
performance of the early 1970s and to substantially expand the volume and
range of goods exported, provided the Government continues its present policies
of maintaining a realistic exchange rate and improving industrial efficiency.
The Role of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
35.       Small and medium size enterprises play an important role in manufac-
turing.  Enterprises with up to 250 employees accounted for at }e-:t 45 percent
of production and 60 percent of employment in the sector in 1970. In nearly
all industrial subsectors small and medium enterprises are predominant by
number of firms, and the vast majority of industrial enterprises located
outside the main urban concentrations are small or medium in size. Small
enterprises, with up to 25 employees, account for over 80 percent of the total
number of enterprises in the medium and small range, and most have less than
5 employees. However, medium size enterprises, with between 26 and 250
employees contribute 80 percent of the value added and provide 60 percent of
the employment in the range, although they only represent 10 percent of the
number of firms. As with small and medium size enterprises in other countries,
many suffer from managerial and technical problems. Typical are: inadequate
accounting and cost data, weakenesses in marketing, inventory control and
purchasing as well as production problems such as lags in technology and



- 13 -
insufficient quality coatrol. There are a large number of agencies, trade
association and consultancy firms offering a wide range of technical assistance
services to industry in Mexico. Despite the existence of these institutions,
few small and medium size enterprises receive the technical assistance they
require and this is particularly true of those located outside the main urban
concentrations. Enterprises often do not seek assistance because they are
unaware of their technical and managerial shortcomings and there are few
opportunities for outside help in diagnosis, as banking institutions providing
financial assistance focus mainly on obtaining collateral to secure their
loans and seldom decide to examine the health of the industrial firm's opera-
tions in any depth.
36.       Given their great number, their labor intensiveness and their
predominance outside the main cities, small and medium scale enterprises can
play a major role in achieving national goals for employment generation and
regional development. Furthermore, small and medium enterprises provide seed-
beds for the development of new entrepreneurs and for improving labor force
skills. Through their linkage with large industrial enterprises and with other
sectors such as agriculture, their development can have a multiplier effect
on the economy. To strengthen and expand the activities of the small and
medium scale enterprises in the industrial field, the authorities propose to
carry out a program through NAFINSA combining a comprehev.sive package of
financial and technical assistance with a network of industrial extension
agents. NAFINSA is well suited to carry out the project: it is the oldest
and largest development bank in Mexico, having been created in 1934 to promote
industrial growth. It can mobilize the necessary human and financial resources
to successfully carry out the project, both from within its own organization,
from the trust funds which it administers for the Federal Government, and from
the financial institutions which are associated with it.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project would have the following primary objectives:  (a) to
foster a more rapid growth of industrial output and employment by providing
the necessary financial facilities to small and medium scale enterprises
which wish to increase their production capacity; (b) to promote decentrali-
zation of economic activity and regional development by making financial
and technical assistance more readily available to firms located, or wishing
to be located, outside the main urban concentrations; (c) to create a more
comprehensive and effective system of technical and managerial support for
medium and small scale enterprises by coordinating the activities of existing
technical assistance institutions and helping small firms to make effective
use of these services. A brief project description may be found in the Loan
and ProJect Summary at the beginning of this report. The project was first
discussed with the Bank early in 1976. Preparation missions visited Mexico in
July and October of that year; a preappraisal mission visited Mexico in
January of 1977 to review preparatory work being prepared by NAFINSA. The
project was appraised in August 1977 and negotiations were held in February
and March 1978. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Pedro Galicia
Estrada, General Manager for International Financial Institutions of NAFINSA.



- 14 -
38.       The project comprises four major components:  (a) a credit and
guarantee program to finance fixed assets and working capital associated with
such investments to be carried out through commercial banks and other financial
intermediaries; this component would be administered by the staff of the
FOGAIN (see para 31); (b) reinforcement of a program to provide risk capital,
on a minority and temporary basis, to small and medium size enterprises which
are unable to obtain sufficient equity capital to expand, to be administered
by the staff of the Fondo Nacional de Fomentu Industrial 1/ (FOMIN); (c) a
program to lease, with or without option to purchase, plant buildings and
equipment to small and medium scale enterprises, to be administered by the
staff of the Fideicomiso de Conjuntos, Parques y Ciudades Industriales 1/
(FIDEIN) and (d) the creation of a new corps of industrial development
extension agents based in NAFINSA's field offices that would assist small and
medium scale enterprises 21 to identify their f:aancial and technical assis-
tance needs and to obtain such assistance, and support to specialized technical
assistance agencies.
39.       A Coordinating Committee has been created within NAFINSA to insure
that various elements of the project are carried out harmoniously. Its
functions will be to determine operating policies and priorities in carrying
out the project; to coordinate the activities of various institutions and
agencies concerned with the project and with the development of small and
medium scale industrial enterprises in general; to monitor progress of the
more experimental features of the project, and to approve individual subloans
and investments. The Coordinatinz Committee is headed by the Director General
of NAFINSA and will be assisted by a small Secretariat with technical staff
headed by a Secretary, who has already been appointed.
The Credit Component
40.       FOGAIN has been in operation since 1954 and is the oldest and best
known of Mexico's institutions supporting small and medium scale industrial
enterprises. It rediscounts up to 100 percent of loans made by commercial
banks, financieras and other financial institutions for the purpose of
financing investments in fixed assets, working capital, and to restructure
debt. Since its inception, FOGAIN has assisted more than 12,000 small and
medium scale enterprises through nearly 24,000 loans, and over the past
four years its portfolio has been growing at 30 percent yearly. More than
three quarters of the number of its credits, and about 40 percent of the total
amount lent in 1976/77, have benefitted small-scale enterprises. About 40
percent of FOGAIN's credits financed the acquitilon of fixed assets. The
industrial activities which received most support were metal working and
fabrication, food processing, clothes and footwear, and furniture production.
1/   A trust fund created by the Federal Government and entrusted to Nacional
Financiera S.A.
2/   FOGAIN defines small and medium scale enterprises as those with an equity
capital of up to Mex$35 million. This definition will be used for purposes
of the project.



- 15 -
41.       Since FOGAIN is a second-tier credit institution and commercial
banks and other intermediaries take the credit risks on loans, these
evaluate the financial risks of each operation before submitting rediscount
proposals. Applications are examiaed by FOGAIN to verify their eligibility
and to assess the final borrcwer's financial and administrative capacity.
Because of the large number of applications for small loans (i.e. those of
less than Mex$ 2 million) their financial analysis is simplified; for larger
loans, a more comprehensive analysis including financial projections is
required and examined. FOGAlN's project appraisal procedures are acceptable.
42.       Under the project, FOGAIN would discount loans made by intermediaries
to finance the purchase of productive fixed assets and associated permanent
increases in working capital. Most enterprises would require support from at
least one of the other components of the project (i.e. technical assistance,
risk capital, leased assets in industrial parks, and the credit guarantee
scheme discussed below).
43.       In order to provide credit for small enterprises that lack sufficient
collateral to offer banks and other financial intermediaries, FOGAIN's present
guarantee scheme would be improved and expanded. FOGAIN's Operating Regulations
have been amended to permit it to grant guarantees for up to Mex$750,000, and
it is NAFINSA's intention to increase FOGAIN's guarantee reserves as the volume
of such transactions expands.
44.       Loans financed by FOGAIN will be denominated in Pesos and carry
interest charges to final borrowers averaging 16 percent yearly. Firms with
production facilities in less developed areas will pay somewhat less than the
average and those with plants in the large urban areas will pay somewhat more.
FOGAIN has agreed that it will review its interest rates to final borrowers
on January 1, 1979 and set them so that the average is between one and three
percentage points above the ACF index (see para 33). FOGAIN would take credit
demand conditions and its own costs into account in establishing the average
within this range. Once granted, a fixed rate of interest would apply during
the life of a loan, and the rates for new loans would be adjusted at least
every year or whenever the ACF index s:,ould change by more than two per-
centage points so that the average rate would be between one and three
percentage points above the ACF index (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Since the Government has announced its intention of continuing its
policy of realistic interest rates, the ACF index can be taken as an accept-
able benchmark on which to base lending rates under the project.
45.       FOGAIN's margins to intermediaries are currently 3 percent per annum
for loans to both small and medium sized enterprises. Intermediaries pre-
dictably preferred to deal with well established medium-sized firms rather
than small ones because of the higher administrative costs, less adequate
collateral and higher risks associated with the latter. So as to avoid a
bias in its operations against small-scale enterprises, FOGAIN will study its
margins for intermediaries with a view to introducing wider margins for loans
to small scale enterprises.



- 16 -
46.       FOGAIN is well managed and is capable of carrying out the credit
and guarantee component of the project. Its Technical Committee, which
determines operating policies and procedures, is experienced and includes
representatives of a number of institutions concerned with the development
of small and medium industry. Its Director and staff of about 40 profes-
sionals are capable and dedicated. FOGAIN's financial situation is accept-
able; it is adequately capitalized and though its financial structure was
adversely affected by the devaluation, the recently approved increase in its
average interest rate should help restore profitability to an adequate level.
The Risk Capital Component
47.       This element of the project will be carried out by FOMIN, which was
created in 1972 to provide equity capital to small and medium size firms with
insufficient capital to finance their expansion plans. FOMIN invests as a
minority shareholder with the object of selling its participation to private
investors after its investments have matured. It thus serves to bring together
grL:'os of investors enabling enterprises to have larger equity capitals and
permitting them to operate on a larger scale and reduce production costs.
FOMIN's participation frequently helps firms start the transition from a
closed family enterprise, in which management is not specialized, to a
corporation in which professional managers bring their expertise to bear on
all aspects of operations. FOMIN normally obtains representation on the Board
of Directors, which enables it to keep well abreast of developments and help
resolve problems at and early stage. This close supervision has enabled
FOMIN, in concert with other shareholders, to carry ov.t management improve-
ments to resolve initial project difficulties in several cases.
48.       FOMIN's performance to date has been reasonably satisfactory con-
sidering that it is a comparatively new institution dealing in investments
that take a long time to mature. As of September 1977, 20 of the 65 companies
in which FOMIN held investments, representing 41 percent of its portfolio,
were operating profitably. Of the remaining, 19 companies had good prospects
of earning profits in the rnear or medium term; 17 had problems and nine were
either under construction or investments in them were in the process of being
sold, for the most part profitably. FOMIN had sold investments in 16 other
companies to that same date, at an average profit of 5 percent of investment.
Companies in which it has invested are mainly in the chemical, food processing
and engineering industries.,
49.       Projects eligible for financing would meet the same criteria as
those specified for the credit component (para 42). In selecting investments
under the project, FOMIN would give priority to enterprises located in less
developed regions of Mexico, and to industrial activities having a substantial
employment impact or with export potential. Projects to develop domestic
technologies would also be given preference whenever possible. FOMIN's project
appraisal capacity is good; its staff is well trained to analyse investment
prospects in detail. For the future, FOMIN would consider the use of preferred
shares and other similar instrUments where appropriate, in order that it might
not have to wait until its equity investments are fully matured before obtain-
ing a cash return, thus improving its own financial position.



- 17 -
50.       FOMIN is guided by a Technical Committee which determines its
policies, priorities and procedures, considers and approves investment
proposals and oversees its operations generally. The Committee is chaired by
the Director General of NAFINSA and includes high officials of the Ministries
of Finance, National Patrimony and Industrial Development, and Commerce. The
staff is headed by an experienced and able manager and includes 24 competent
and experienced professionals.
51.       FOHIN's financial situation is satisfactory.  It has virtually no
debt since its operations have been financed from equity contributions made
by the Government. To date, income from dividends and capital gains have
been insufficient to cover administrative and operating expenses, but it is
expected that capital gains realized when some of its earlier investments
mature, and the use of new financial instruments, will enable FOMIN to show a
profit.
The Factory Building and Equipment LeasinR Component
52.       This component would be carried out by FIDEIN, which was established
in 1970 by the Federal Government to promote, and help manage, a system of
industrial estates as part of the program to decentralize economic activity
from the main urban concentrations. Through industrial estates, small and
medium size industrial firms are provided with sites and services (power,
water and sewerage disposal, etc.) at reasonable cost and in areas well suited
to industrial expansion. To date thirteen industrial estates have been created
through FIDEIN and are now in operation; another 7 are under construction. The
estates are operated through local trust funds in which local authorities
take the leading role with FIDEIN providing designs, technical support and
guidance. The program is clearly gaining momentum; the FIDEIN-local trust
fund two-tier arrangement has proved to be an effective means of enlisting and
focusing support from the local authorities as well as thc private sector. To
date, approximately 600 firms have purchased land on estates developed by
FIDEIN and negotiations are currently in progress with another 200 firms.
However, comparatively few firms have so far constructed factories because of
difficulties in securing adequate term financing. The majority are small, or
towards the small end of the medium-size range.
53.       Under the project, FIDEIN will carry out a program of constructing
and leasing factory buildings on its estates, and leasing machinery and
equipment to enterprises that cannot secure adequate financing from other
sources to purchase such assets. The building facilities will be leased by
FIDEIN or through local trust funds, with or without the industrial enterprises
having the option to buy. Equipment will be leased through leasing agencies
approved by FIDEIN. Leasing terms to industrial enterprises would be set such
that the imputed interest rates would be comparable to those paid on loans
through FOGAIN (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). FIDEIN would also
provide on an experimental basis common facilities, such as warehouses for
goods and spare parts and repair shops, to groups of small enterprises
engaged in similar or complementary industrial activities, with the aim of
increasing the accessibility and reducing the unit cost of such services.



- 18 -
This would be of particular value to such industries as shoe manufacturing
which is concentrated in certain locations and dominated by small firms.
54.       FIDEIN's Technical Committee is headed by the Minister of Human
Settlements and Public Works and includes representatives of the various
public institutions concerned with industrial development. FIDEIN is well
managed; its staff of 15 professionals are well qualified and motivated,
FIDEIN is currently examining the need to expand its professional staff
to undertake its new functions under the project. FIDEIN's financial
position is sound; it has financed its operations entirely from equity
capital contributions by the Government. The operations of the local
trust funds as a whole have resulted in small operating losses to date,
but adjustments in their lard sales policies and leasing terms are
expected to result in modest profits in the future.
Technical Assistance
55.       The technical assistance component would be carried out by NAFINSA
which, in collaboration with other specialized institutions, would provide
assistance to medium and small scale enterprises. NAFINSA itself would
create a corps of industrial extension agents which would work out of its
regional offices throughout the country to identify the financial and technical
assistance needs of small and medium scale enterprises. These would direct
clients to the various specialized agencies as needs arose. About 45 extension
agents would be recruited and trained during the three year period of the
project, and the direct foreign exchange expenditure associated with training
project staff as well as equipment which the specialized agencies might require
for the project would be eligibiL  for financing under the proposed loan.
Costs and Sources of Financing
56.       Based on estimates of the likely demand for financing under the
various project components, the resources available to the institutions
which would participate in it and their capacity to expand operations, it is
estimated that about US$91 million equivalent would be required over a three
year period. The foreign exchange costs of investments to be financed under
the project are estimated at IIS$55 million and NAFINSA has requested a Bank
loan of US$47 million (equivalent to 85 percent of the foreign exchange cost)
to help finance such investments. The Government and-the Bank of Mexico would
provide the balance of resources required by NAFINSA to carry out the project.
In addition, the private sector would invest more than $40 million of its own
resources.
57.       The Bank loan would be tentatively allocated to the four project
components as follows: $30 million to be channeled through FOGAIN, $10
million to be channeled through FOMIN, $5 million to be chawneled through
FIDEIN and $2 million to finance technical assistance costs. Since some
project components might develop more rapidly than others, NAFINSA and the
Bank would from time to time raview progress under the project and, if neces-
sary, revise the above allocation.



- 19 -
58.       Since a majority of the underlying subloans, leases and investments
would be recovered in a period of up to 12 years. and the proposed loan is
expected to be disbursed over four years, a single amortization schedule
providing for repayment over 15 years and including 4 years of grace, is
proposed for the Bank loan. Bank resources would be transferred by the
Borrower to each trust fund in Pesos with NAFINSA bearing the foreign exchange
risks. NAFINSA has also agreed that it will grant each trust fund repayment
terms at least as favorable as those granted by them for the underlying
subprojects and that the proceeds of the proposed Loan recovered by the
trust funds will be used to make further subloans, investments or carry out
leasing operations under the project (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Bank resources would be transferred to beneficiary enterprises by the respec-
tive trust funds at the terms described in paras. 44, 47, 49 and 53 above.
Project Implementation and Supervision
59.       The project would be carried out by NAFINSA through the three trust
funds according to the latter's Operating Regulations, which have been modified
and are acceptable to the Bank. The technical assistance component will be
carried out by the staff of the Secretariat under the direction of NAFINSA's
Coordinating Committee. Bank review of individual transactions under the
project would be designed to insure that high standards are maintained in
evaluating investments and would vary to reflect the nature of the operations
carried out by FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN. Since FOGAIN processes a large number
of small loans and has a well trained techuical staff to review operations, and
since, moreover, these operations would later be reviewed by the Coordinating
Committee, it is proposed that the Bank review only a representative sample
(10 to 15 percent) of such subloans after they have been granted. FOMIN's
investments under the project involving US$150,000 or more of. Bank resources,
would be reviewed by the Bank prior to commitment, and prior Bank approval
would be required for the first five factory leasing sub-projects, the first
common service center and the first two equipment leasing operations to be
carried out by FIDEIN. All loan funds for technical assistance would require
prior Bank approval. The accounts of FOGA.IN, FOMIN and FIDEIN, as well as a
separate account which would register all payments related to the project
and expenditures on technical assistance, would be audited annually in a form
acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
60.       Disbursement procedures would be similar to those generally used in
the Bank to support small s,cale industrial enterprises. Because of the large
number of subloans and investments under the project, and the varied nature of
the assistance provided, it would not be feasible to calculate the foreign
exchange cost of each individual transaction. A standard Bank participation
of 55 percent for all disbursements under the FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN compo-
nents is proposed, with the Bank financing 100 percent of the cost of imported
goods and services for the technical assistance component, or 70 percent of
expenditures if such inputs are purchased locally.
61.       Disbursement for subloans, investments and leasing operations would
be made against certificates of expenditure issued by the respective trust
funds; unlike DFC operations for larger size encerprises, the documentation
supporting such requests would be retained by the Borrower for inspection by



- 20 -
the Bank during project supervision. Disbursement for investments financed
through FOHIN and FIDEIN would in addition be required to be consistent with
a description of the subproject (including a description of the items to be
financed) which would be submitted to the Bank for authorization. Disbursement
for the technical assistance component would be made against evidence of
expenditures.
Procurement
62.       Procurement would be made along standard Bank guidelines for DFC
operations. The staff of FOGAIN, FOMIN and FIDEIN would ensure that assets
acquired by the enterprises carrying out the individual expansion projects are
adequate in quality, reasonably priced and appropriate for the intended use.
Pr-'1ect Benefits and Risks
63.       The project would have a direct impact on production by providing
financial and technical assistance to small and medium scale enterprises and
would help create 15,000-18,000 permanent Jobs. It would stimulate investment
in less developed parts of-Mexicu, expanding employment prospects in areas
where labor migration begins, thus discouraging further migration to large
urban concentrations. The project would also have a favorable impact on
income distribution by assisting smaller enterprises and industrial projects
with a comparatively low investment cost (US$7,000 to 10,000) per permaanent job
created. Based on past operations of the participating trust funds and the
features of the project, it is estimated that about three quarters of the
enterprises assisted would be small scale (i.e. with 25 employees or less)-
64.       The proposed project would have important inst'.tution building
benefits which would be felt even after the project is completed. It would
promote closer coordination among numerous financial and technical assistance
institutions serving small scale industry, introducing new forms of assistance
and strengthening existing ones. For instance, it would introduce a new
scheue for factory and equipment leasing, a new technical assistance exten-.ion
service, and new investment instruments; it would also strengthen project
evaluation procedures and expand a credit guarantee scheme.
65.       The project's main risk is that some of its components may not
gain momentum as quickly as hoped. This arises from the complexity of the
project's nature and the number of institutions involved. Since, however,
NAFINSA would be the administrator of the main components, problems of
coordination should not be unduly difficult to resolve. NAFINSA is
experienced in industrial development financing and has a large and well
qualified staff which it can call upon to expand the project's coverage
rapidly.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement betweerk the United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee prcvided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the



- 21 -
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
67.       1 a- satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement f the Bank.
P'ART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
April 12, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
MEKICO               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND   AREA   (THOU   AM2)            ------- ---              ------ -- --- ---
MHExICO                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
1-925                                       V'T OfEEN'
AGRIC.     972.S                        1960       t97O   EST r.IATE          BRAZIL         CHILE           SPAIN****
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     370.0*    690.0*  1090.0*/a               550.0*      820.0*    Is50.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            36.0       50.4       62.0 /a             92.8         q.4        3;.6
POPULATION DENSIT3 .                                2.        3     I5 g                      1           67.0
PER SOUARE KM.                         60        20         31 /a10                         120           70
PER SQ. KM. AGRICUJLTURAL LANO        36.o       52.0       65.0 T71            49.0        58.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE  /THOU. AV)          46.1       43.8       42.0                38.4        32.s        21.0
CRJDE DEATH RATE I/THOU.AV)           14.C       10.2        8.6                 9.9        11.0         6.8
INFANT MORTALITV RATE (/THOU)         74.0       68.%       S2.0               110.0        79.0        27.9
LIVF  EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH  tYRS)      s6 .3      62.4       64.7                59.4        60.6        70.5
GROSS RFPRODUCIION RA TE               3.2        3.1        3.0                 2.6         2.2          1.4
POPULATION GROM'H RATE M%
TOTAL                                  3.1        3.5        3.5                 2.9         2.4         1.1
URBAN                                   1.9       4.6        5.1                 5.0         3.5         2.0
URBAN POPULATION II OF TOTAL)           90.1       58.7       63.3                55.9        76.0        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE fPERCENT)                45.8        46.2       46.3                42.0        39.0        27.6
Q TO 14 YEARS
IS TO 64 YEARS                       50-2        so0.       50.2               ss.o         56.3        62.6
65 YEARS AND OSER                      3.3        3.7        3.4                 3.0        1.7          9 7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0        1.0        1.0                 0.E         0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6        2.0        i.6 /b              1.5         1.6           .1
FRAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..       STO       32i.1               2S0.0       £03.5
USERS (% OF MARR.ED  DOMEN)             1. ..                3.1                 1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1'1300.0   13000.0   16600.0             29400.0       2900.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULIURE (1)          54.0       45.0       41.0                40.4        21.0        25 0
UNEMPLOYED (5 OF LABOR FORCE)              ..        ..        6.6/Lac             7.5         4.' 1       I:.I  a
INCOME DISTR.RUTION
S OF PXIVATE INCOME REC O or-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              /* Ia  27 9            A*                35.0 /a   31.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            >3.8 71  58.3             W                62.0 .7a   55.8
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             3.5 7i    3.4           **                 3.0 7j      4.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            10 3  a   010.0 7*    13.0
OISTR1BUTIDN Of LAND OWNERSHIP
S OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               .       37.1          ..               45.0
3 OWNEO BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             .        0.3          .                 1.s
HEALTH ANO AUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              1800.0    14B0.0           .              1910.0      2210.0 /b   740.o /t
POPULATION PEA NURSING PERSON         2630.0 lb 162. *     .a  .0               3220.0 lb  5630.0 7          . -
POPULATION PER HOSPITAN   ED           sg.T   93080.0               fd 9j.      260. 0      270.0        220.0
PER CAP IT-A SUPS LY OF -
CALORIES fs OF REQUIREMENTS)         107.0      105.0      117.0               109.0       101.0       107.0
.ROTEIN 4GRAMS PER DAY)               65.0       66.0       66.9                64.0        71.0        61.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          290 oId   28.0/b    27.5                  39.0        32.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             12.7        9.8        8.4 [e                          3.9          0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO.
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        80.0      104.0      111.0                87.0       107.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      11.0       22.0       30.0                   ,,       39.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLI G PROVIDED
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              17.0       12.1       12.0                11.0        12.0         11.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
IX OF SECONDARY)                      24.0       24.0          ..               17.0        33.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE I%)                 62.0 Ie   76.0        76.0                64.0         90.0        94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM TURBAN)                 2.6        2.2          .                  1.0         1.3 Ic
OCCUPIED DdE.LINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATEi (s)                       76.0 /f   61.0 IC        ..               73.0 IC    40.0 /cd        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
IX OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..      59.0         ..                48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (5)                       ..      28.0                            8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          95.0      276.0       301_0               60.0        143.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POP)           14.0       24.0        40.0               25.0         16.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWN/YR PER CAP)           313.0      567.0      724.0               491.0        606.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.8         3.2        3 6                 2.7         5.0         5.8
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Z Z
K Z
z Z                    At
Zi                                                                                                                't    - - -- --
V t                             . . . . . .
39
cz
3 Z                                        Z I' 'Z
Z t
2 t                  t
z, .1
I Z
I 2
Al
C E.
Z I
Z I Z



-0 - W -t -i A 
*     0909.* . 900.-  l iT
30 C       0001      0e001       91Li' I    v Cst30       0'0      0001    O OOt   0cl     '1
O.                          : :V*  n   not   b atz. s t 't    L. LI    616 R     n                                              --
II o*n            v0t       .WIt    svtr          x         Iz        *x    a c       *E-                                 A43.
0.0        00D   o     .n        4000n 109                9o0-      I0  1sst   i's           V
TIlT  MiYl                        UT   MWi"    Tm   Tm
zz9=v;p                              tt1)a" 1.                                -41is                        04{ UA-50 an gnu l tt
EC O      01:0       41:0= U          -o                           q1o1O:0t  tco                              T r1...o 91.0-                         . t ~-. IO
!40-      4S 0       110                          -            911 *            .."      Og         00 FO -   141       CLIO                          '41'10 l I."1
90C       t9c        04o              -           -     1'I z 0                z001       01'11      46V         WE        14'1                                         .
0 001   0001                            -                 -               -                  9           utt 01o 94    -                                      t0
*   *c 000  OI                    -                    -          -          -          -        9,00*o     4040          -           *t      i001r-      99e0_  1-03
O'Ot    V'11       '                                                                           Co '  .   .   .    I't'             ..R.'* P- 1 -1N... P^Jd
-     00   1 0?                      -           -C. .                     -          -    -        9.490      rqI,o':                                      *3l119  1'!S
-*X 03   c19-  -                                       -                     -          -        040   on000*c0            - 
- ' 41    9                    - .   .    .        .           .          .          -       0000'0    101'  I         -
6OZ. t  I:*C..uo                             o   0z0I1
trd U.o4g,mvaggsp tau sWnLW
:01     19       9c-      001-r       *'0 C        1     Oiotn'-   @00R  -   *0m'C-   r  n't0-    *310'0 t        9 c st-   04                                 l-) a0-1'39
rote    1'       9*I      V          ('01        09      VooO'1    0*sit t    9'6419 I      *0W½ 0I    L 0   t    O'0'1Z    t 0l
19      02       *'t        SE        00-        003t    00,0 c        10 6t t   O00 I    100*t1t    t'04t',    0Y"4' l'1 0_9.fl1    *-0-9
0011    121      I's      t9          0 '        1       0 * tn-0    1' 9       '0 L  0 9tt9 vt0'     O 9' two    V'9%1t    V000r                       *911,090  3- -
CCZl    0'1      00 *     rt          ('0        v'0     901001   C00194     ttll    3'0              0 9WE    90W40    0'000* S1                                     O1R1 I-000
105 13 1                               000                                 1110 1   *1014 0040 305                                        U1   t    1
0o001    000ol   G00      0 00                   6' 1C    0                      OCtU  CX 00      OtCppa00 Ottwas   ruvot                                      tan) tt   n
[t      (00      00TI    g1  C L      0'9        00t    000000    ('10901    000001    0*C01'01   0 t  01        0'0g ig  SI  9gn 49t
nl  C. 94    V. tt  6. V     L             K       V":at IlSzi at0 §§If Z Z6 1    Li t         'ilo                                    t   1S 11 *
VI C    LOE    Vol        I9 L        0          U0       Pot9*4cs   c:%Vw ll'      It    "Ot 001  r92 i0(ve9v    0'906t0'    91000a-
--                                             I , t   L Vt11 1t01           It, tO      0'11 n     021        0 * COll   O,*% t.O 3r                                   (
- *              -      10         0*1         00      0s02   *9.11           !'091      0001                  009        003a-I                               14 0It tt  I  It t
-  C e   aCl  * r     s sa       1 tSI      rZn         mEl        I zn      *Olt        O*:~~~~~~~~01  tit -
T DE                         I O    n            43 I U 0I         rpl Vo'0                00I' t     VL         n   n                                   0t9  0t t0,  *  0ttl 0all  *- 0--
90      o.1      00 *       4        401         0'6     VILE       0'19        0'00s      S0"        CIO        090        401 -n   -941
*,      V 0L     0"       00?t       n190       t001    109O t    r'l1    ('010 1    e0t1            0000'!    490tt       00tn 1aft
10      %'L      L*9      9'Z1       0'1        I's      t          Voo IM0     901        109l      l'000       000        L"I00                              P! 910t
&'0    9V        0'       0(         (9 4         00'    CO.:O-      S109       V'0 cgs.      0       1109       000        I..                       -*-09-   M 9    -3
VI  1:0 L,             01        0 :I                000' too:0I'1    0OOI    000 I               94         91          19090  't%99339
S t b{t    @t CE      tt zi     ol1        I ST    I ott       O t S tO      tO I    Na  t WE I    t ZO *6  * t0t      *'r                  .0t;  1-91"-TA* P"-1
0001    it       v-r    r            VX°         rv      r Is            rr       w t" L r- Il   0    I I  9    CIR z    rumr  r  1                               '  -'10
01 It    1'09  °t11       IT         S, tt   O 1         1l'00'1    001*t    0'V    v0's    1                t              0 1 _
91      I'o      tO       tC0-       00,         199      000        00        elm O'Cl nert                     901        40
1-#>t * X *tt tT~~~~~~~~~Mlili t "At 4 rs
0001     0001V,n   0             Ioa              01     01 I   4010'           2 2 10'L    100t 1     'TR9         "L'0    Polo ,0
z    30 C E3t C1   t  t3 I                                     tT              -int6Cit ZT      itn ot           O' VW en  ' oo  t                               3*'WU1
490        L91   0.00    1-0         9'          4        r 0  mi     001 o*Wit  1w1wL *    '00       ril6 o' 00  09          V'0t                     091t_ 1,_90 -U
0'Z    V4 C      0   0 11             9         09,    0'404'41   t'-S,0       0'0!'tz    t'09'9     a'00        00'Se     0'110 
t  t t                                      I s+  &B  B      s sso6 4    icrg'S    1,1911V    6 otb j    olw  C    : tnt  ::w
0'4    S(1! It     0 *' 0'1          t           (' t'0110          909         0          0s 0009    0'0C1'  0'009'. C PA C   m0'                   (gm             "MRot  .0) 9o_
0001   0°001   Ol 0°0     1  I           S*    0':1('VL    V '                  0'44       9090 ozoit   es OWoI,G    O'l0    0,9'9(( asS                               9t*0
0   ,l0'   V00        C0 '!                 Pt        0'         09        90          30        099         09          '9                     09  0~193  19
It      So                             It Is gfK    VCLO Iso        S It        ::C.       V:1                                    as oe
tAtilstt~~~us 00*   Ux 
ORT 1W   WTmT T71WTY   7                                                                                    t
10-



AIM= I
ea.e 4 of 4
aAJ~0 PADo1  W.ZA ASi8TAcI An DM1
(06  1t111.. at eerret  Wit..)
Pvel. *I- rr t.1t.t                              P-roleelon.
W'6468  NALANCZ 0? ?AT3IRS
5xporte (Inel,sdtqt tnS)                   2,743.4       6.081.5         6,811        7,862.1               9,328.8       13.879.9      20,634.6
Isqotr (t1n-ttln  ItS)                    3,416.9        8,*36.6         8,135.1      73512.2               3.456.7       12,156.1      16,271.5
Inneurce htlasla                          - 671.5       -2,555.1        -1,323.4        343.8               . 129.9        1,623.8       4.363.1
Interest, not-                            - 307.0       -1.246.5        -1,872.0    -2,126.5               -2,350.9       -2,746.6      -2,7t3.4
Dl ot Ir_rt-nt  -nes                       - 267.5      -  *57.5        - 636.6    -  739.8                 - 853.4       -1.135.8      -1.486.2
workers,  gemttaoce*                         122.7          174.4           195.0       207.5                 224.1           257.7         295.1
Current Triester. net                        '5'            123.4           146.9        157.1                171.6          204.9         245.0
Currant Ac.ount Satane.                  -1,068.0       .4,181.2        -3,491.9    -2,151.7               -2,41.3        -1.795.8          703.8
Frivate Direct Investment                    322.8          748.8          6U.0         688.0                 7; .4          983.9       1,236.2
Public Pad. and Iong tre  Debt, net         258.6        3,565.8         4,906.9      3,075.1               :,67.0        -  223.4      -1,58.5
IU0ibure.ectol                           (821.3)      (4,418.6)       (6,123.3)   (3,551.1)              (5,94.2)       (4.748.8)    (3,355.2)
(Iepay.ntn)                             (.562.7)       (.152.9)      (-1,216.4)  (-2,476.0)            (-3,529.2)    (4,962.2    (-4,943.8)
Otbhr CpIUtal                               588.7            31.7       -3,063.0      - 861.4                  21.9        1,233.3       - 133.3
(Public Shert t-)                        (139.6)        (842.81         (839.8)        -                     -           (-200.0)      (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                  (49.1)        (-811.2)       (3,U82.83    (-861.4)                 (21.9)      1,433.3)        (14.7)
Chang. In  eserves  - . trea)               -102.1        -165.1           940.0    -  750.0                 -325.1         -207.5      -  373.6
ClU3lt AND lIe   CCQITtWS                      844.1       4,305.7          6,560.5     5,356.8
PUBLIC NED. AND L.T. LOANS
1is0                                        14.8           110.0           725.0        187.0                                -               -
IDA
tcher Mottlaterl                            112.3           121.8          355.1        250.0                   -            .               -
Cyer_ntn                                      81.0          316.8           118.6       250.0                   -             _
Sueplterm                                    69.7           116.7          201.9        150.0                   -            .
Uonks anl Financial Institutioen            .34.4        3,300.1         4,454.8      3,889.8                   -            , 
end.                                         -             U140.3         707.5        600.0                   *             .              _
DIt" AwD D0t S11C?                                                                                             mahAL DO?VS
public Debt Ontetandlin  4 Disbursed      3,226.9       11,095.9        16,002.9    19,078.0                                Outstandins and Dtsbursd
(      od  f period)                                                                                                       an Dec. 31. 1917
Interest on Public Debt                   - 216.9        - 810.5        -1,069.9    -1,257.0
Asp.nsent -  rubli  Debt                  - 474.7          6 652.8      -1,216.4    -2,476.0                                  5 IlPllto      Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                  - 224.3        - 133.3        .  323.7    -  367.7
Tntal Debt Servole  (net)                 - 915.9        -1.58.6        -2,612.0    -4,0O0.7                PblIc M & L.T.
bards., -  tepot zoraings MI VLa,
S.  Fubilc Debt S-rvic                     24.0           26.6            32.6         64.0
b. totaL Debt Service                       31.           29.7             37.3        50.6               180                 1,456.8        7.6
c. tottl Debt Service  ad                                                                                 ID0                   772.7        4.0
Dtrect 1nesatnt l e_"                 U.S            40.2            46.4         59.1              Covermentt             853.5        4.5
Average t-rma of Public Debt                                                                                Sq>plile              32O.M         1.7
a.  Interest as   of Proec                                                                                bonds               1,621.6        9.6
Toot' 0.0. ntd D.                      7.4           10.8             9.6          7.7              Otber Frneocial
b, Amrtl"ttm 0 % of prter                                                                                  Inetttutntme      13,852.6       72.6
Tote's 0.0. end D.                    16.3           11.3            11.0         15,5              Total               19,U78.0      100.0
13UD lponure
a.  I8D D.0. & 0. . 7. ot                  18.0           10.1              7.7         7.6
Public P.0. and 0.
b.  IUD Debt Service an . sof
Public Debt Service                     7.8            7.0             5.8          4.2
IDA IvpocuF
- got epplicable or evtlable
3t Includes lnter*et on short-core private and ptetbl debt
21 Includes  . r rnitt-nce



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Barnk Loans (as of February 28, 1978)
Loan                                                       Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                      1,486.4
793   1972   NAFINSA                       Tourism              22.0        0.6
909   1973   NAFINSA                       Water Supply         90.0       50.6
968   1974   NAFINSA                       Roads                90.0       61.1
969   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           77.0       17.1
970   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           47.0       43.6
1022   1974   NAFINSA                       Airports             25.0       14.5
1053   1974   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development        50.0       45.6
1110   1975   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       110.0       60.5
1111   1975   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           50.0       50.0
1112   1975   FERTIMEX and NAFINSA          Industry             50.0       23.4
1186   1975   Banco Nacional de
Obras y Servicios
Publicos S. A.             Water Supply         40.0       38.7
1205   1976   NAPINSA                       Industry             50.0       33.7
1217   1976   NAFINSA                       Agricultural and
Livestock Credit 125.0        48.1
1232   1976   Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA      Railways            100.0       87.7
1420   1977   NAFINSA                       Tourism              42.0       42.0
1462   1977   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       120.0      120.0
1524   1978   NAFINSA                       Tourism              50.0       50.0
TOTAL                                           2,624.4     787.2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              454.7
Total now outstanding                           2,169.7
Amount sold                        92.3
of which has been repaid           64.8            27.5
Total now held by Bank I/                       2,142.2
Total Undisbursed                                            787.2
1/     Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1978)
Fiscal                                                             US$ Million
Year          Obligor                  Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/         Industrial Equipment       0.8             0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/       Twist Drills              C.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
Fierro y Acero de
Honterrey, S.A.         Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A.-1/         Steel                      0.9     0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                 Sodium Sulphate           0.7      -       0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --        2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining             1.5      -       1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                   12.0      -      12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
c.V.                    Pulp and Paper              21      21      2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz           Cement                   10.5             10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel       Tourism                    1.0     0.3    1.3
1975       Mexinox, S.A.              Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
Total Gross Commitments                             42.5    27.0   69.5
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         16.3    22.0   38.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC 3/                26.2      5.0   31.2
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold
redeemed or repaid.
2 US$25,000
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22.
1972: Effectiveness Date: March 30. 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of
Zihuatanejo are complete. The international airport at
Zihuatanejo is now being served by 35 flights a week from
Mexico City. A new bilateral air agreement between Mexico
and the US was signed in January 1978 that will allow Mexican
and US air carriers to serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US
cities. Three hotels with 555 rooms will open by May 1978,
and au additional 1,500 rooms are under construction. The
only category of the loan not yet fully disbursed relates
to the training component (about US$500,000). To use these
funds, the Mexican authorities are preparing a proposal for
additional training facilities at La Paz (Baja California).
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 M4illion Loan of
June 18. 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30. 1974.
Closing Date: December 31. 1978.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by end of 1978. The Government has
proposed that savings in carrying out some components of the
projects be applied to finance new works which would serve
the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area. The Government is carrying
out a revision of the bulk water ratz, on confirmation of
which a recommendation on changes in the project description
will be submitted to Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
About 25 percent of the works have been carried out and about
US$25 million have been disbursed. SubstantLal delays have
been encountered in the initiation of project works because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations. Substantial cost
increases caused by price escalation were also encountered.
Taking this into account, the scope of the project was reduced
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
wetaess es not  urmtF    balanced evaluation of strengths and



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 7
in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975 kim) to ten roads plus
part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which, because of cost
increases, have the same total cost as the original project.
The roads remaining in the project continue to be justified as
benefits have kept pace with costs.  Overall progress is esti-
mated at about 31 percent and completion is now expepted for
late 1980 or about two and a half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Prolect;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1. 1974: Effectiveness Date: Hay 29, 1974.
ClosinR Date: December 31. 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 16,000 ha were
irrigated in the previous season; on full development the
project will provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The
technical assistance program and the land settlement
program are proceeding satisfactorily. However, inflation
has been greater than estimated at the time of appraisal
and project costs have risen to about US$371 million
equivalent from the original estimate of US$212 million.
A recent analysis of the project indicates that the rate
of return remains satisfactory, although project costs have
risen, due to rapid increases in commodity prices over the
same period. The Government's request for a supplementary
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31. 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially behind
the original schedule; the pace is, however, accelerating as
works for the major storage dam have now begun. About 15 percent
of project works are complete and water is being supplied to
25,000 ha of the 100,000 ha to be served by the project. Total
project costs have risen from US$146 million to US$341 million
because of higher inflation than projected at the time of
appraisal and changes in the volume of physical works. The
Government's request for a supplementary loan is under consid-
eration.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28. 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16. 1974.
Closin& Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has
decided to construct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the pro1ect.  Works in all the six airports are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27.
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. A reprogramming of the project
was begun in 1977 to adjust for these delays. The project
is presently being given priority attention. Budget levels are
under review and will likely be raised. While, as a whole, the
project remains behind the original implementation schedule,
some elements, most notably the extension service, are ahead of
schedule. The project would likely be completed two year after
the original closing date.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIPER I):  $110 Million
Loan of Ma 8. 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29. 1975.
Closing Date: December 31. 1982.
Project investments are generally cn schedule and management
is taking action to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding development credit,
agricultural extension, and farmer organization components are
being implemented. The new PIDER management is giving priority
to ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of earlier
PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being given to improve
cost recovery, investment analysis and programming, monitoring,
and rural industries.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Pro4- .L - Bajo Rio Bravo and Balo Rio
San Juan: $150 Millicn Loan of May 8. 1975: subsequently
reduced to $50 Million: Effectiveness Date: July 30. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been
reduced from $150 million to $50 million and would be applied
to the first phase of the project. The first phase works would
be implemented over four years. Contracts for priority works
are being placed and studies for the remaining works in the
reduced project are in progress. A technical assistance
component of the project is under implementation.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Prolect:  $50 Million Loan of May 22. 1975;   -
Effectlveness Date: July 30. 1975. Closing Date:
December 31. 1978.
The devaluation of the peso in September 1976 affected the
project cost and its implementation schedule. Preliminary
estimates indicate a capital cost increase of 36 percent
in pesos and a delay of 7 to 8 months in implementation.
The Baeio Urea Plant will be completed in June 1978, the
Paiaritos Urea Plant in June 1979 and the Parathion Plant
in mid-1978.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13. 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26. 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with three cities, where
construction has begun. It is expected that agreements will be
signed by the end of the year with local authorities for four
additionial subprojects which would complete commitment of the
loan.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30. 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31. 1979.
After some delays in committing resources to new projects in
late 1976 and early 1977, demand for financing fcr industrial
projects has strengthened and FONEI has numerous applications
on hand. As of March 15, 1978, 80 percent of the loan had
been committed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Prolect:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11. 1976: Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1. 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
fully committed. The National Rural Credit Bank has been
declared eligible for rediscount under this project thereby
increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-income
producers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30. 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16. 1976. Closing Date: June 30. 1979.
Execution of the project has been generally satisfactory.
Orders have been placed for rails, car components, track
and workshop machinery. Following the devaluation in 1976,
budgetary cuts were made as part of a program to stabilize the
economy. Rail traffic growth also declined and the railway has
proposed substantial rephasing of its investment plan and
procurement schedule, details of which are being works out.
The executlion period of the project will need to be extend by
about two years. Operational and technical improvements of the
railway continue, though they have not yet been reflected in
the financial performance of the railway on account of inadequate
tariff increases.
Ln No. 1420    Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of July 5,
1977; Loan not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
The eaitablishment of a land trust fund in the project area of
San Jose del Cabo, a condition of loan effectiveness, is
expected shortly. Implementation of the project has already
.arted and is on schedule.  A project unit in Mexico City and
adequately staffed field offices have been established.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5. 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31. 1981.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project: $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Mexico: Small and Medium Scale Industry Development Project
ANNEX III - Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: about 12 months
(b) Project prepared by Nacional Financiera, S.A.
(c) First preparation mission; July 1976
tdl Departure of appraisal mission: July 1977
(e) Negotiations completed in March 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1978
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Industrial enterprises to receive credit under FOGAIN
component in Pesos at an average rate of interest of
16 percent upto December 31, 1978 and at an average
interest rate of between one and three percentage points
above the ave.rage borrowing rate of financieras there-
after; the rates for new loans to be reviewed once a year
or whenever the average borrowing rate of financieras
changes by two points or more,(para. 44); and
(b) Leases of industrial buildings and equipment under FIDEIN
component will be at such terms as to obtain returns on
capital employed comparable to those under the FOCAIN credit
component (para. 53).



