CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1552 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 4, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1552 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 4, 1978, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to forty-seven million dollars
($47,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Bor-
rower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or dis-
tribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto, and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien,
shall make express provision to that effect; provided, however,
that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such pro-
vision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by
an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of its political subdivisions and
of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency or instru-
mentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision of the
Guarantor and shall include any institution or organization which
is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Guarantor
or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the operations
of which are conducted primarily in the interest of, or for the
account of, the Guarantor or any political subdivision of the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the
Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform
such obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor;
Addresses
Section 4.01. The Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor hereby agrees that all notices
and requests given or made by the Bank to the Borrower shall be
deemed to have been given or made also to the Guarantor.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting thrrzgh their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
BY: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By // Jorge Espinosa de los Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
tatin America and the Caribbean


