Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C:j./ 2C>/ -C^/'+
Report No. 6485-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANG,HAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
March 20, 1987
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1986    March 1987
$ 1.00-      Y 3.48          Y 3.71
Y 1.00-      $ 0.28          $ 0.27
The staff appraisal report is based on the exchange rate (US$1.00   Y 3.71)
prevailing at appraisal in September 1986.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ADWF   average dry veather flow             lped     liters per capita per day
A$     Australia dollar                    m         meter
BOD5   5-day biochemical oxygen demand    m3         cubic meter
dia    diameter                            m3/day   cubic meters per day
DO     dissolved oxygen                    mg/l      milligram per liter
km     kilometer                            sq km    square kilometer
ABBREVIATIONS USED
ADAB      Australian Development Assistance Bureau
BOF       Bureau of Finance of Shanghai
BMEA      Bureau of Municipal Engineering Administration of Shanghai
BSA       Bureau of Sanitation Administration of Shanghai
BUP       Bureau of Urban Planning of Shanghai
Cc        Construction Commission of Shanghai
EC        Economic Commission of Shanghai
EPA       Environmental Protection Agency
EPB       Environmental Protection Bureau of Shanghai
COC       Government of the People's Republic of China
HiLLG     High Level Leadership Group (Shanghai)
MDAD      Municipal Drainage Administration Division of BMEA
MEAD      Municipal Engineering Administration Division of BMEA
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MURCEP    Ministry of Urban and Rural Construction and Environmental
Protection
PC        Planning Commission of Shanghai
SAA       State Audit Agency
SM        Shanghai MuT.icipality
SMAB      Shanghai Municipality Audit Bureau
SMEDI     Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute
SMR       Shanghai Metropolitan Region
SMWC      Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
SPC       State Planning Commission
SSC       Shanghai Sewerage Company
SSPCC     Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company
STDI      Shanghai Tunnel Design Institute .CW 10



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:      Shanghai Municipality and Shanghai Sewerage Company
Amount:              IBRD Loan:  $45 million
IDA Credit: SDR 78.9 million ($100 million equivalent)
Terms:               IBRD Loan:  20 years inclu4ing 5 years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
IDA Credit: Standard
Relending Terms:    From the Government to Shanghai Municipality: 20 years
including 5 years of grace at 4.5% p.a. interest.
From Shanghai Municipality to Shanghai Sewerage Company:
20 years including 5 years of grace at 4.5% p.a.
interest.
Project             The objectives of the project are to improve the
Description:        environment of Shanghai through building sewerage
facilities for the removal arid disposal of wastewater in
the city, and to create and develop the institutions for
providing sewerage services, managing water resources
and protecting the environment. The project consists of
the construction of a link and intercepting sewer -ystem
to collect and transport wastewater in the project area
to the estuary of the Changjiang for disposal,
conducting of four studies and training. Project
elements consist of a 35 km long trunk intercepting
sewer, 32 km of link sewers, two pump stations on the
intercepting sewer and eight pump stations on the link
sewers, a screening plant and 2.6 km of outfall tunnels.
The studies include: (a) a management and organization
study to determine organizational and staffing needs for
the Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC); (b) a sewerage
tariff study ; (c) a river basin management study of the
Huangpu River for the purpose of setting up the
institutional framework for water resources allocation
and waste discharge control; and (d) a study to examine
economic ways of rehabilitating the existing combined
sewer system in Shanghai. A comprehensive training
program for SSC and Shanghai Sewerage Project
Construction Company (SSPCC) staff would also be carried
out. The main benefits of the project come from the
improvement of the environment in Shanghai, and
institutional development in management of liquid wastes
and environmental pollution control. Project risks
include: (a) possibility of environmental problems at
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



the Changjiang estuary due to stronger than expected
effluents entering the system or overestimation of
assimilative capacity of the estuary; and (b) failure to
reduce point and non-point pollution sources upatream of
the city resulting in inability to achieve water quality
objectives. Monitors have been built into the project
to detect problems early in order that appropriate
remedies can be found and carried out.
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
----- ($ million) -----
Civil Works                       120.7     75.2    195.9
M & E Equipment                     9.6     26.7      36.3
Design, supervision,
managemment, studies
and training                     12.5      8.1      20.6
Land acquisition                   48.4     10.6      59.0
Base Cost (1987 prices)         191.2    120.6    311.8
Physical contingency               19.1     12.1      31.2
Price contingency                   7.9      5.1      13.0
Total Project Cost /a           218.2    137.8    356.0
Interest during construction        0.0     16.6      16.6
Total Financing required        218.2    154.4    372.6
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total        t
-*'($ million) -
Proposed IBRD loan/IDA credit       7.2    137.8    145.0       38.9
Shanghai Municipal Government    211.0      16.6    227.6       61.1
Total                         218.2    154.4    372.6      100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Group FY               1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
- ($ million) ---------------
Annual                     12     21     38      33     27     14
Cumulative                 12     33     71    104    131    145
/a Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes..CW 10



CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  THE URBAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL SECTORS ..1...................... 
Urbanization in China .......    ............................  1
Environmental Situation in Urban Areas ................ ..    1
Sector Organization .....................................    2
Sectorial Issues and Priorities ......   ...................  2
Past Experience under Previous Operation ... .............    3
Bank Role in Sector ........    .............................  3
II.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ............... ...     4
Project Genesis       ............................            4
Shanghai Municipality     ...........................         4
Water Supply   ....................................           5
Domestic and Industrial Wastewater Disposal .............     5
Status of Existing Sewerage System ...............            6
Present Environmental Situation .................             7
III. POPULATION, WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTEWATER FLOW PROJECTIONS    7
Population Growth ..........    .............................  7
Regulations Affecting Water Use and Wastewater Discharge      8
Water Demand     ............................................  8
Wastewater Flow Projections ....... .....................     9
Sewer Design Criteria     ...................................  9
Biological Loads and Toxic Matters .................. ....   10
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Nessrs. John W. Huang, N. Noda (Engineers), C. Fernandez, P.C. Kapur
(Financial Analysts), H.A. Garn (Economist) and M. Durosseau (Environmental
Engineer), who visited China in September, 1986.



IV.       THE   PROPOSED   PROJECT   .......................................                                                                   10
Project   Objectives                                    ......................................                                 10
Project Conceptual Design ........................                                                               .             11
Project   Description                                  .....................................                                   11
Rationale   for   Bank   Involvement   ......                                       .................            ...           12
Project   Cost   Estimates    ........                                  ....................... ...                            12
Project   Financing   Plan   ........                                  .......................                   ...           13
Status   of   Engineering   ........                                  ........................ ...                             14
Project   Management                                 ......................................                                    14
Consultant   Services                                  .....................................                                   15
Procurement                        .............................................                                               15
Disbursement                          ............................................                                             16
Land Acquisition and Resettlement  .......................                                                                     17
Monitoring   Criteria                                  .....................................                                   17
Environmental  Pollution Control  ......                                             ...................                       17
V.  THE BENEFICIARY ..................                                                                                                          19
The  Shanghai  Sewerage  Company  ...........                                         ..         ..............                19
Exi5ting Institutional Arrangements  ........ ..                                                      ...........              19
Organizational  Improvements  ............                                          ..         ...............                 19
Billing   and   Collection   ........ .......                                  ..         .................                    21
Accounting                 .......................                         .......................                             21
Audits    ....................... .. .........................                                                                 22
Staff Training  and Development  ...........                                           ..         .............                22
Insurance ........                                                                                                             23
Taxation   ................................                                              ...............                       23
VI. FINANCE .                         ....................................................   23
Past and Present Financial Position  ........ ..                                                      ...........              23
Balance  Sheet  and  Fixed Assets  ...........                                         ..         .............                24
Financial   Objectives                            ..................                    ..................                     24
Sewerage   Tariffs                       ....................                      ....................                        25
Future  Financial  Performance  ............                                          ..         ..............                25
Shanghai   Municipal   Finances   ............                                     ..         ...............                  27
VII. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS ....                                                                     ......    28
Project   Justification    ........ ....... ..                                          ..................                     28
Least-Cost Considerations  ....................... .....                                                                       28
Project   Benefits                       ....................                      ....................                        29
Average Incremental Cost and Affordability  ....... .......                                                                    30
Environmmental   Impact   ........ ....... ..                                           ..................                     31
Project   Risks                    .....................                      ......................                           31
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ......................    31



TABLES IN TEXT
4.1     Project Cost Estimate ........     ...........................   13
4.2     Project Financing Plan ..................................   13
4.3    Procurement Arrangements ................................   16
6.1    Past Expenditures for Sewerage Services .....    ............   24
6.2    Key Financial Indicaters ................................   27
ANNEXES ....... 34
1. Flow Diagram of Existing Sewerage System.                        34
2. Wastewater Disposal Alternatives .35
3. Water Demand and Sewerage Projections .37
4.  Estimate of Wastewater Effluent Requirement at Sewer Outfall    39
5. Proposed Industrial Wastewater Standards for Discharge into
Combined Sewer System ....................,.,,.                 40
6. Project Components.                                              41
7. Project Cost Estimate .42
8. Project Cost Estimate by Contracts .46
9. Project Implementation Schedule .47
10. Disbursement Schedule .48
11. Project Management Organization .49
12. Organization of Shanghai Sewerage Company .50
13. Resettlement Plan .51
14. Assumptions for Financial Projections .52
15. Shanghai Sewerage Company - Financial Projections.              57
Table 1:  Income Statement
Table 2:  Sources and Applications of Funds
Table 3:  Balance Statement
Table 4:  Financing Plan
Table 5:  Monitoring Indicators
16. Economic Analysis    ..62
17. Tariff Study - Draft Terms of Reference    .      .70
18. Huangpu River Basin Management Study - Draft Terms of Reference  74
19. Management and Organization Study - Draft Terms of Reference    78
20. Study on Rehabilitation of Existing Sewer System - Draft
Terms of Reference .82
21. Proposed Training Program                ..                     85
22. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File ..93
MAP
IBRD Map 20201      CHINA: Shanghai Sewerage Project



-1-
I. THE URBAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL SECTORS
Urbanization in China
1.01     About 37% of China's roughly one billion population lives in urban
areas defined as cities and towns with populations over 5,000. This is
comparable to the urbanization level of 35% for other countries at similar
income levels. Rapid changes in urbanization have occurred in China in the
past, most notably a 7% p.a. growth in 1949-58 and 1978-83, and 10% from
1984 to 1986. These were periods when major shifts in Government policies
resulted in large-scale population migration. Within the 26 provinces and
the three centrally-controlled provincial-level municipalities of Beijing,
Tianjin, and Shanghai, there are 57 cities with populations exceeding one
million, 267 cities with 50,000 to one million people, and 7,511 tow'ns.
1.02     While the recently observed rate of urban growth may be somewhat
overstated due to a recent definitional change of urban areas and urban
population, it is at least seen to be in the 4 to 6% p.a. growth range,
which is similar to those in other developing economies experiencing rapid
economic growth. These trends are expected to continue in the next several
years. The most important contributing factor is the existence of surplus
farm workers who migrate to nearby market towns and cities seeking full-time
or part-time work, often to supplement family earnings. While China plans
to contain urban population growth within specific growth poles (townships
and small towns), the viability of these plans is being challenged by a
weakening of the traditional mechanisms for migration control, namely
government job and housing allocation and food rationing. Rural migrants to
cities can acquire food in the free market, and take jobs in the growing
private and collective sectors. It is estimated that the urbanization level
could reach 50% by the year 2000, and that, contrary to the Government's
expectations, a large part of the increased urbanization could occur in the
large and medium-sized cities, where job opportunities are better.
Environmental Situation in Urban Areas
1.03     Growing population and industrialization in urban areas have
caused widespread water pollution, often contaminating sources for drinking
water supplies. In most large cities, including Shanghai, the location of
the proposed project, local watercourses are heavily polluted with chemical
and biological impurities. A national environmental protection law (1979)
and a water pollution control law (1984) were enacted with the aim of
addressing these pollution issues, but implementation has been slow because
high treatment costs threaten the financial viability of the large number of
old industrial plants. Current policy is to relocate waste-producing
industries away from populated areas, and to require industries to pay
pollution charges for effluents exceeding prescribed standards. Funds
collected are used to finance pollution abatement facilities. Because of
the slow progress in reducing pollution through regulatory measures and the
need to dispose of increasing amounts of domestic wastewater, most cities
are now confronted with the need to construct sewerage systems with suitable
wastewater disposal facilities, including treatment plants, to solve
industrial and domestic pollution problems.



-2-
1.04      The bucket (night soil) system is still widely used in cities for
human waste disposal. With rising standards of living, this system is no
longer considered acceptable in crowded urban areas. In large cities, new
housing estates are now planned to have flush toilets and sanitary sewerage
systems equipped with treatment facilities. Urban upgrading in old city
cores usually includes conversion to flush toilets, and as separate sewerage
does not exist, individual septic tanks are required by city codes to
provide some treatment prior to disposal into storm sewers or local
watercourses.
Sector Organization
1.05      The MinistiLy of Urban and Rural Construction and Environmental
Protection (MURCEP) is the central ageney providing overall guidance to the
provinces and the three centrally-controlled municipalities on matters
concerning the planning and programming of investments for all works in the
cities and towns, including sewerage. It also sets operating rules for
carrying out national policies for environmental protection. Each
province/municipality is responsible for works in cities and towns under its
jurisdiction, executed through various provincial, or municipality bureaus.
In larger provinces and the centrally-controlled municipalities,
commissions, another administrative level above the bureau, have been
created, with each commission supervising several bureaus. Overseeing urban
matters are the provincial bureaus of planning, design, capital
construction, and municipal finance, which approve urban plans and major
projects for cities and towns. The actual work of planning and design of
projects is carried out by municipal departments except when the projects
are too large, in which case, provincial assistance would be requested.
Construction work has normally been carried out by municipal construction
bureaus, but is now also being contracted out to construction enterprises.
All urban projects are reported to MURCEP. Large projects (exceeding Y 200
million for Shanghai and other special cities) require approval by the State
Planning Commission (SPC). Those involving foreign loans require approval
by both the SPC and the State Council.
1.06      China now gives great importance to environmental protection.  The
central Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), while administratively part
of MURCEP, reports directly to the State Council. The EPA sets national
environmental standards and provides guidance and supervision to
provincial/municipality environmental protection bureaus,
Sectoral Issues and Priorities
1.07      For the past three decades China has concentrated on
industrialization, leaving urban services, especially those required to
preserve environmental quality, seriously neglected. Main urban issues are
shortage of housing, traffic congestion, inadequate water supply and
sanitation facilities, and air and water pollution. Significantly higher
investments in urban services are now required to remedy past inadequacies
and to provide for future growth. Given the large investment needs and
limited available resources, improved investment planning is needed in order
to help selection among competing priorities. Increasingly urban
investments would need to be funded from local resources, and, therefore,
upgrading local government finance is anothe. priority area of concern.



-3-
Cost recovery is also an issue in the sector, and past pricing policies have
contributed to inefficient use and poor maintenance of most urban services.
The Government recognizes this deficiency and is promoting a "users pay"
policy. The full enforcement of this policy cannot, however, be carried out
until the Government undertakes wage reforms, which may take some time to
complete. In the area of wastewater disposal, management is weak and
responsibilities are divided and often inappropriate. Institutional
strengthening through better financial planning and management, tighter
regulations to support operations, and more intensive staff training are
urgently needed. Sector studies are being conducted by the Bank in
cooperation with Chinese officials to address these issues (para. 1.09).
Past Experience under Previous Operation
1.08      The Bank Group has thus far been involved in only one project in
China's urban and water supply sectors. This was the China Rural Water
Supply Project (Credit 1578-CHA, SDR 82.1 million, 1985) to finance
equipment and goods for the construction of water supply systems in about
4,650 villages, which previously did not have access to safe drinking water,
in four provinces and one municipality. The project also supports training
for and development of management and mon'.toring systems in rural water
supply. Project implementation is on scheJ.ule, with about 30% of the
materials and equipment required for the project already procured. Project
officials have shown competence in carrying out the work. The project is
scheduled for completion in 1990.
Bank Role in Sector
1.09      In addition to the above project, the Bank has carried out
significant urban sector work. This includes: (a) the Shanghai Sector
Memorandum (Urban), Report No. 4227-CHA, December 1982; (b) a Bank economic
report, China -- Long-term Development Issues and Options, Report No. 5206-
CHA, May 22, 1985, which includes a chapter on spatial and urban issues; (c)
an urban sector survey in Liaoning province in 1985 in cooperation with UNDP
and ADAB; and (d) an urban sector study in Zhejiang Province (now in
progress) to study urbanization trends, urban development policies, needs
for urban services and means for planning and financing such services. The
Bank's role in the urban sector in China is meant to: (a) assist the
Government to prioritize needs for urban services and prepare cost-effective
projects; (b) provide project funding, as well as attract other sources of
external financing; (c) help strengthen institutions responsible for
preparing, constructing and operating urban services through support for
organizational structure and staff training; (d) promote sound financial and
cost recovery policies for the sector; (e) help develop sector policies,
legislation and regulations conducive to efficient urban development and
operation of urban services, and (f) promote environmental protection. In
areas of urban planning, finance, and management, China looks to the Bank
for transfer of experience gained in other countries. The Government is
presently discu.;sing with the Bank the possibility of assistance for a
number of potertial urbarn and water supply projects.



.4-
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project Genesis
2.01     At the invitation of the Shanghai Municipal Governinent, a Bank
sector mission visited Shanghai in April 1982 to review Shanghai's
development priorities. This resulted in the Shanghai Sector Memorandum
(para. 1.09) which identified priority areas of investment as: liquid waste
management with an emphasis on improving the quality of water in the two
major waterways, upgrading of old housing linked with a strategy for new
housing construction, and improvement in traffic and public transport.
Australian consultants were subsequently engaged under a technical
assistance grant from the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) to
carry out with Chinese counterparts detailed strategic studies in each of
these four areas. In August 1984, the Municipality requested the Bank to
finance a project to deal with liquid waste management. A preparation
mission in January 1985 and a preappraisal mission in May 1985 reviewed
project preparation work. Project appraisal was delayed because of various
domestic procedural matters, and some additional preparation work needed due
to a change in the location of the proposed outfall. These issues were
resolved in May 1986. The project, which was appraised in September 1986,
involves the construction of an intercepting sewer and link sewers to
transport wastewater in the existing combined sewer system of the northern
half of the city to the Changjiang (Yangtze River) estuary for disposal. A
number of significant institutional development measures are also included.
Shanghai Municipality
2.02      Shanghai Municipality (SM) is located in the Changjiang (Yangtze
River) delta plain (see IBRD Map 20201). It has aii area of 6,186 sq km, of
which 300 sq km (increased recently from 141 sq km) are classified as urban,
and referred to here as the Shanghai Metropolitan Region (SMR). SMR is made
up of ten central districts collectively referred to as the City, two
outlying urban districts (satellite towns), and areas recently annexed from
adjacent counties. The remaining territory consists of ten rural counties.
SMR is inhabited by about 7 million of the 12.1 million population (1984
statistics) of the municipality. About 6 million of the urban population
live in the City. In addition there is a floating population of about one
million, comprising mainly of persons who come to Shanghai to conduct
business or engage in temporary jobs. SM has 1.2% of the country's
population but contributes 10.6% of the country's gross industrial output.
Shanghai City is the country's largest and most heavily industrialized urban
agglomeration and a seat of higher education and technology. About half of
the some 8,000 factories and enterprises of the municipality are located in
SMR. Major industries include metallurgy, machinery, shipbuilding,
automobile and bicycle manufacturing, chemicals, electronics, textiles,
pharmaceuticals and printing, which produce a wide range of high-quality,
precision and sophisticated products. China's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-
1990) envisages continued expansion of both internal and external trade for
Shanghai as well as the strengthening of Shanghai's advanced technology
industries. The Central Government has approved the use of increased
external assistance and borrowings for Shanghai. Indeed, Shanghai is viewed
by Chinese planners as a "window" to the outside world through which various
approaches to modernization can be introduced into China.



o-5
2.03      SM is aiming to become one of the major economic and trade centers
in the Pacific region. To achieve this it would have to resolve the many
urban problems mentioned in para. 2.01. Currently its urban development
plan includes, in addition to the current project, major investments in
housing construction, expansion of its airport, construction of vehicular
tunnels and a new bridge across the Huangpu River and a rapid transit
system. An amount of Y 1,300 million ($350 million) per year has been
budgeted by SM for these works (para. 6.09).
Water Supply
2.04      The main watercourse of the municipality is the Huangpu River, a
tribuitary of the Changjiang, with an average flow of 340 m3/sec at the City.
The river skirts the southern and eastern borders of the City, and is the
main recipient of storm and wastewater flows from the City. It also
provides water for domestic, industrial and agricultural needs, and serves
as a major waterway and harbor for local and international shipping.
Numerous tributaries of the Huangpu River and canals linking to it traverse
the municipality. The most important of these tributaries is Suzhou Creek
(Wusong River), which passes through densely populated and heavily
industrialized areas in the heart of the City, and is used extensively for
river transport.
2.05      SMR is served by water treatment plants operated by the Shanghai
Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC) using water from the Huangpu River. The
water plants have a combined capacity of 3.77 million m3/day, and are
currently producing about 3.5 million m3/day (90% of capacity). About 62%
of the water is sold to industry and the remainder to households. Another
94 waterworks independently serve the ten rural counties and outlying
districts. In addition to water provided by SMWC, about 2.5. million m3/day
of river water from the Huangpu River and 0.2 million m3/day of groundwater
are drawn directly by industry. Water supplied by the SMWC is kept
bacteriologically safe by heavy chlorination, but chemical impurities in the
source water from industrial wastewater discharges impose serious health
hazards. For this reason S4 is embarking on a project, financed from its
own funds, to construct a new water intake at the Huangpu River about 35 km
upstream of the City with a 41 km pipeline to provide better quality water
to the eight existing water plants. Construction of the project, which is
estimated to cost about Y 900 million ($243 million), has already begun and
completion is expected in 1988.
DorestiL and Industrial Wastewater Disposal
2.06     A schematic flow diagram on domestic and industrial wastewater
flows in the City is shown in Annex 1.  Soil water (excreta and toilet
water) and grey water (kitchen, bath and wash water) are normally disposed
of separately from houses. Grey water from all houses is discharged into
the City's stormwater drains which now function as combined sewers. For
exereta disposal, about half of the 6 million inhabitants of the City still
use the bucket system. Night soil from the buckets is emptied at night by
the users into communal storage tanks, collected by small vacuum trucks and
taken to barges to be transported to neighboring villages for agricultural
purposes. The remainiitg 3 million people use flush toilets. Of these,



-6-
roughly 0.9 million people are connected to separate sanitary sewerage
systems which provide biological treatment prior to disposal into the
Huarsgpu River or its tributaries. There are eight sewage treatment plants
serving mainly newer areas in the urban fringe, Another three are planned
or under construction. The remaining 2.1 million people not connected to
separate sanitary sewerage systems are required to have their toilet waste
discharged into septic tanks with the effluent piped into the City's
combined sewers. Septic tank sludge is collected by vacuum trucks operated
by the Municipality, and disposed of with the night soil.
2.07      Most factories discharge their wastewaters untreated or partially
treated either into the city's combined sewers (about 40%), or directly into
the Huangpu River or its tributaries (about 60%). The present industrial
waste load discharged from facto.ies in the City is estimated to be
equivalent to that from a population of about 8 million on a biological load
basis, and about 11 million on a hydraulic load basis. Water pollution
control in Shanghai is exercised by the Environmental Protection Bureau
'PB). The EPB requires industries to pay pollution charges on a graduated
scale according to the extent their discharged effluents exceed permissible
EPB standards. Part of the funds (80%) from these charges are then used to
finance pollution abatement facilities. While the standards appear to be
appropriately set, the charges are too .ow, and, even so, the EPB often
finds it necessary to forgive industries which are already operating at
marginal profitability. Thus, despite the soundness of the water pollution
control policies, water pollution remains a serious problem. The EPB is
aware of these issues, and have proposed measures to correct the situation
(para. 4.19).
Status of Existing Sewerage System
2.08      The combined sewer system in the City was originally designed as a
stormwater system, but is now also accepting household and industrial
wastewater (paras. 2.06-2.07). Some parts of the pipe system are old
(constructed prior to 1949), but the majority of pipes have been
reconstructe(l. In a few districts where the soil is poor, pipes constructed
using the pipe jacking method have settled, giving rise to excessive
infiltration of groundwater often resulting in damage to road surfaces. The
internal surface of many sewers running through industrial districts is
often severely corroded by strong effluents discharged by industries, and
the sewers are sometimes also heavily clogged with industrial wastes which
have to be removed at high cost. As a large part of the system extends in
the most crowded parts of the city, future replacement will be both
difficult and expensive. A study would be carried out in the proposed
project to examine economic ways of rehabilitating the pipe system in order
to extend its life. Draft terms of reference for this study are shown in
Annex 20. During negotiations assurances were obtained from SM that the
study would be conducted on terms of reference and with assistance from
consultants acceptable to the Bank/IDA, and that the study would be
completed not later than December 31, 1989, and the results of the study
would be reviewed with the Bank/IDA.
2.09      The combined sewer system drains to 160 pumping stations, which
have now been upgraded to discharge rainfall without the occurrence of
flooding more than once a year on average. The pumping stations have been



-7.
adequately maintained. Currently these pumping stations discharge their
contents directly into the Huangpu River or its tributaries. Pump stations
which serve areas included in the project will be modified to have the dry
weather flow discharge into a proposed interceptor sewer, while storm flows
would continue to be discharged into the Huangpu River or its tributaries.
2.10     Two intercepting sewers, the Western and the Southern
Interceptors, were constructed in 1971 to relieve water pollution in the
City. These are still in good structural condition. However, because of
overloading and inadequate outfall design, serious local pollution
conditions are found at the discharge points in the Changjiang estuary and
Hangzhou Bay. Their operating conditions will improve when overloaded flows
are diverted to the proposed intercepting sewer. Measures are already
planned to expand the capacity of the Southern Interceptor, which would be
used to serve the City areas east and south of the Huangpu River. Plans
have also been proposed to reconstruct the outfalls to a more appropriate
design. The separate sewerage systems and the eight sewage treatment plants
(para. 2.06) serving urban fringe areas are relatively new and are operating
satisfactorily.
Present Environmental Situation
2.11     The amount of pollution discharged into the Huangpu River now far
exceeds thA assimilative (self-purification) capacity of the river syscem,
and serious deterioration in water quality has resulted. The bulk of this
pollution is from industrial effluents. While efforts have been made by EPB
to reduce industrial pollution (para. 2.07), the measures used have not been
adequate to produce any noticeable improvement in river water quality.
Samples taken from the Huangpu River in the vicinity of the City show that
the river turns anaerobic in many stretches for 150 days a year (compared to
33 days a year in 1975). EPB's required standard for Shanghai waterways is
a dissolved oxygen content of not less than 4.0 mg/l. Suzhou Creek and many
other tributaries of the Huangpu River are black and malodorous during most
parts of the year. As these creeks run through densely populated areas of
the city, their condition seriously affects the living conditions and well-
being of a large number of people. The situation is expected to worsen with
planned industrial expansion in Shanghai, and the steady replacement of the
bucket system with flush toilets. In addition about 80,000 new housing
units a year would be equipped with flush toilets requiring expansion of the
sewerage system. These problems would be addressed by the project.
III. POPULATION, WATER CONSUMPTION, AND WASTEWATER FLOW PROJECTIONS
Population Growth
3.01     Shanghai's natural population growth rate has fallen dramatically
from 52.6 per thousand in 1954 to 11.8 per thousand in 1980. With a natural
population growth trend expected to be less than 10 per thousand, and with
the assumption that control of in-migration by administrative means could
continue to be possible, SM has projected virtually no population increase,
so that by 1990 its total population would increase to 13 million from 12.1
million in 1984 (para. 2.02), with 7 million living in the SMR. However,



-8-
with the possible increase of rural-to-urban migration brought about by the
recent economic reform (para. 1.02), this projection is generally considered
to be too low. Already about half of the one million floating population in
Shanghai (para. 2.02) are believed to be living permanently in the city, but
are not registered as residents. It would therefore be more reasonable to
estimate urban population in Shanghai to grow at a rate of 1.3% p.a. on the
1984 population base, a figure which is still low compared to historical
urban growth patterns in China (para. 1.01). This would result in an urban
population of 8.5 million in the year 2000, and is considered to be the
population consistent with an increase in the work force in line with
Shanghai's economic expansion. It is, however, expected that the bulk of
any population growth in Shanghai would take place in new City areas. For
the old City area, where the proposed project is located, population growth
would be relatively low, as the area is severely overcrowded (population
density approaching 40,000 persons per sq km), and the Municipality is
already taking steps to relieve the crowded conditions there. Any
underestimate of population growth in Shanghai is therefore not likely to
affect the project design. Details of the population projection in the
project area are shown in Annex 3.
Regulations Affecting Water Use and Wastewater Discharge
3.02     Growth in water supply demand and sewage flows is expected to
continue with the City's projected economic expansion. SM is, however,
attempting to deal with the adverse effects of this development. Current
legislatior reflects SM's determination to protect public health and the
environment, to eliminate pollution, and to make rational use of available
resources. Plans to relocate polluting industries away from dense
residential areas are also being pursued. The EPB is actively monitoring
industrial waste discharges and imposing pollution charges in an effort to
reduce pollution (para. 2.07). It also plans to review industrial effluent
discharge standards and pollution charges (para. 4.19). The Municipality
has imposed sewerage charges on industrial and commercial users commencing
in December 1986i which would almost double the cost of water usage (water
supply and wastewater disposal) (para. 6.04). Heavy industrial polluters
connected to the sewerage systems will also be made to pretreat their
effluents (paras. 3.09 and 4.19). Together, these measures are expected to
moderate the potential growth in water and sewerage demands of the City.
Water Demand
3.03      Detailed projections of water demand in SMR were prepared by SM
and reviewed by the mission for different categories of consumers.
Domestic, commercial and industrial water consumption from the SMWC system
were recorded respectively at 0.55, 0.47 and 1.59 million m3/day in 1983;
0.57, 0.50 and 1.65 million m3/day in 1984; and 0.60, 0.53 and 1.72 million
m3/day in 1985. These levels constitute the total domestic and comm6rcial
supply and a major part of the industrial water supply of the City, as well
as of the industries and some 500,000 people in the two outlying urban
districts and recently annexed areas. A few industries extract water from
private wells, but as SM has stringent restrictions on groundwater
extraction due to ground subsidence problems, the amount from this source is
negligible. Several large industries draw water directly from the Huangpu
River for their own use. This amounts to about 2.5 million m3/day (about



-9-
71% of the amount supplied by SMWC). Wastewater from these industries is
discharged directly back into the river.
3.04     Domestic per capita consumption in SMR was estimated to be 91
liters per capita per day (lpcd' in 1985. The low per capita figure
refl.ects inadequate internal plumbing, sharing of bathroom facilities, and
the common practice of using ablution facilities provided at the work places
by industries and enterprises. As personal income improves and with the
gradual replacement of the bucket with flush toilets, domestic per capita
consumption is projected to increase to 123 lpcd in the year 2000.
Commercial and industrial demands from the SMWC system are expected to
decrease by 10% each year in 1987 and i988 with sewerage charges introduced
in December 1986 (para. 6.04), implying a price elasticity of demand of
about -0.2, and to increase thereafter at a rate of 3 to 4% p.a. in response
to econoric growth. The volume of water that industries extract directly
from the Huangpu River is expected to decrease (in relative terms) to about
51% of the amount supplied by SMWC in the year 2000. Details of water
demand projections are shown in Annex 3.
3.05     Using the above assumptions the total water demand to be met by
SMWC is projected to be 4.1 million m3/day in the year 2000. Assuming
unaccounted-for water at 18%, the total required production capacity would
be 5.0 million m3/day, or an expansion of 40% over the present production
capacity of 3.5 million m3/day. This demand projection is considered
reasonable. Expansion plans have already been formulated by SMWC and
include, in addition to the construction of the new intake on the upper
Huangpu River (para. 2.05), the construction of additional water treatment
plants, and the eventual construction of a water intake on the Changjiang.
Wastewater Flow Projections
3.06     Total wastewater flow from SMR is presently estimated to be 6.1
million m3/day (average dry weather flow, ADWF). This is projected to
increase to 7.5 million m3/day in the year 2000. The projected wastewater
flows (ADWF) were estimated from water demand projections, less 10% for
evaporation and other losses, and including groundwater infiltration
(estimated from tests to be 5,000 m3/day/km2 in the old combined sewer
system and 1,000 m3/day/km2 for new sewers). The wastewater flows are
planned to be disposed of through the existing western and southern
interctpting sewers (1.2 million m3/day), existing and future separate sewer
systems (0.3 million m3/day), the proposed project works (1.4 million
m3/day) and a future Stage 2 project (2.0 million m3/day). About 2.6
million m3/day would continue to be discharged directly into the Huangpu
River. This would consist mainly of effluents from industries extracting
water directly from the Huangpu River, with such effluents expected to meet
EPB's standards by the year 2000 with the improved monitoring and control
planned. Details are shown in Annex 3.
Sewer Design Criteria
3.07     Seasonal and diurnal flow variation factors measured by studies
conducted by the municipality are 1.3 and 1.5, respectively, on a citywide
basis, and a peak frctor of 1.95 (1.3 x 1.5) has therefore been adopted.
The project interceptor sewer will be designed to capture as much of the



-10-
wastewater from the combined sewers in the project area as is economically
feasible and environmentally satisfactory. A comprehensive study was
carried out to determine the appropriate intercepting ratio (ratio of
capacity of intercepting sewer to the ADWF) to be used ir. the design (a
larger ratio would mean the use of a larger sewer with resulting higher
costs, but a greater percentage of the wastewater would be intercepted).
The study recommended a ratio of 2.5 for the main intercepting sewer, and
ratios of 3.0 to 4.0 for link sewers in the Suzhou Creek area. With these
design criteria it is estimated that about 98% of the wastewater in the
combined sewers of the project service area would be intercepted, with the
remaining 2% escaping into the Huangpu River with stormwater flows.
Biological Loads and Toxic Matters
3.08      About 80% of the present wastewater pollution load is of
industrial origin. While the total pollution load is projected to increase,
this percentage is expected to decrease in the future with increased
industrial pollution control balanced by higher domestic waste discharges
from the gradual elimination of the bucket system. Projected wastewater
pollution loads in terms of 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) are shown
in Annex 3.
3.09      The principal toxic substances appearing in Shanghai wastewater
are arsenic, cyanide, phenol, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, and
zinc. Projected amounts of these substances and other pollutants expected
in wastewater from the project area are shown in Annex 4. EPB's required
water quality standards at the Changjiang estuary for these pollutants are
also shown. Under current ambient water quality conditions of the estuary,
a reduction in the pollution level in the effluent would be necessary for
six pollutants in order to meet water quality standards. This would be done
by enforcement of pretreatment for industries discharging these pollutants
into the system. The allowable effluent strengths for wastewater discharged
by industriers into the combined sewer system in order to permit the
achievement of water quality objectives at the Changjiang estuary are shown
in Annex 5. Industries whose effluents exceed these standards would be
required to pretreat, and this requirement would be enforced through sewer
regulations which are to be enacted by December 1987 (para. 4.19).
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Project Objectives
4.01      The project will be the first part of a comprehensive two-stage
program of works required for improvement of the environment in Shanghai and
involves the removal and disposal of wastewater in Shanghai City, which now
suffers due to inappropriate wastewater disposal. The project would also
set up the appropriate institutional framework, encompassing organizational,
financial, technical and legislative matters, for management of liquid
wastes and environmental protection. This would involve the establishment
of a self-financing sewerage company, and creation of the mechanism to
cont'-1 and improve water quality in the Huangpu River and its tributaries.



-11-
Project Conceptual Design
4.02      The project would aim towards the achievement of specific
environmental targets (para. 2.11) in the Huangpu River and its tributaries.
Since the proposed project is only the first stage of a two-stage scheme,
the final environmental target would only be achieved after the second stage
is implemented. The various alternatives studied are presented in Annex 2,
and the results form part of the master plan for wastewater management in
Shanghai. The plan proposes continued use of the existing combined sewers
and pumping stations for wastewater collection, and the construction of new
intercepting sewers to transport the collected wastewater to the Changjiang
estuary for disposal. In the newer city areas included after the extension
of the city limits (para. 2.02), separate sanitary sewer systems with sewage
treatment plants would be used.
Project Description
4.03      The project consists of: (a) the construction of a sewerage system
which includes intercepting and link sewers, two main and eight smaller
pumping stations, a treatment plant and other ancillary works; (b) the
conducting of four project-related studies; and (c) staff training. The
physical works of the project forms an integral system, and is independent
of the work in the subsequent second stage, although the systems in the two
stages may be linked eventually to facilitate operation. The project would
serve the main commercial district of the City where intensive redevelopment
is taking place, and the residential and industrial properties along Suzhou
Creek. It is designed to serve about half the population of the City (3
million) up to the design year 2000 with a capacity to remove 1.4 million
m3/day of wastewater. The project includes construction of a 35 km long
trunk intercepting sewer (3m to 4m dia. and twin 4.25m x 3.5m box section),
32 km of link sewers (0.45m to 3m dia.), two pump stations on the
intercepting sewer and eight pump stations on the link sewers, a treatment
(screening) plant and 2.6 km of outfall tunnels (twin 3.5m dia.). The
second stage project, planned to be started in 1991, would provide tr.e
remaining work for SM's wastewater disposal.
4.04      Wastewater in the combined sewer system presently discharging into
the Huangpu River and Suzhou Creek would be diverted at riverside pump
stations through new link sewers into the proposed intercepting sewer, which
would run from the western end of the city eastwards, roughly parallel to
Suzhou Creek. The intercepting sewer would cross the Huangpu River by a
tunnel to a proposed treatment (screening) plant which removes coarse and
stringy particles from the wastewater. The wastewater would then flow
further eastward for a distance of about 10 km to the Changjiang estuary.
Two pumping stations on the interceptor would provide the necessary head to
maintain the flow. The discharge point for the wastewater is at Zhuyuan,
about 6 km east of the city. Twin deep outfalls of tunnel construction,
each 3.5 m in diameter and 1.3 km long, would be used. The wastewater would
be released through ten vertical 1 m diameter diffuser pipes located along
the last 400 m of each outfall tunnel. The main components of the project
are listed in Annex 6.



-12-
4.05      The project would also further institutional development through
the provision of consultant services to assist in the conducting of project-
related studies (paras. 2.08, 4.21, 5.06 and 6.04), and a comprehensive
training program (paras. 5.13, 5.14 and 5.15). This assistance would enable
SM to: (a) develop an efficient, self-financing sewerage entity, the
Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC); (b) develop and strengthen industrial waste
management policies, regulations and practices; (c) establish appropriate
sewerage tariff policies to promote water conservation and pollution
abatement, as well as to provide a basis for financial viability to the SSC;
(d) develop sewer and other operating regulations to support the operations
of the SSC; (e) strengthen environmental protection; (f) provide training
for sector staff in project preparation and in the management and operation
of sewerage services; and (g) set up an organization to be responsible for
allocation of the Huangpu River's water resources and control of effluent
discharges into the river.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.06      Environmental pollution control and large-scale sewerage
development are new fields in China. The proposed project includes major
construction work to relieve serious water pollution conditions in Shanghai.
The project would establish a self-financing sewerage company, and develop
the institution and measures required to manage the water resources in the
city's waterways.  It would also provide a model for liquid waste management
which can be emulated by other cities in China. Bank experience and
technical assistance can provide the necessary expertise to develop the
appropriate legal and institutional framework required. The proposed
project is large and has complex technical problems requiring external
expertise the provision of which the Bank can assist in.
Project Cost Estimates
4.07      Project cost estimates are based on engineering designs prepared
by SM officials with the assistance of consultants financed by ADAB. The
cost estimates are based on prices from recent construction contracts in
China, or quotations from foreign manufacturers for imported equipment,
updated to February 1987 prices. The project is exempt from import duties.
A physical contingency of 10% of the base cost has been added. Local price
contingencies assume price increases of 6.5% p.a. until 1990 and 4.5% p.a.
thereafter, and foreign price contingencies used are 3.0% p.a. in 1987, 1.0%
p.a. from 1988 to 1990 and 3.5% p.a. thereafter.
4.08      The total estimated project cost is $356 million (Y 1,531
million), with a foreign exchange component of $138 million (39%).  The
total financing required, which includes $16.6 million of interest during
construction is $373 million (Y 1,592 million). T-ble 4.1 shows a breakdown
of the project costs by major project components. Detailed cost estimates
are shown in Annex 7.



-13-
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total
--- (Y million) ----    --- ($ million) ---
Civil Works           455.1  283.7   738.8    120.7   75.2  195.9
M & E Equipment         36.4  100.7   137.1       9.6   26.7   36.3
Services               47.2   30.4    77.6      12.5    8.1   20.6
Land acquisition       182.7   40.1   222.8     48.4   10.6   59.0
Base Cost
(1987 prices)     721.4  454.9 1,176.3    191.2  120.6  311.8
Physical contingency   72.1   45.5   117.6      19.1   12.1   31.2
Price contingency      143.6   93.0   236.6      7.9    5.1   13.0
Total Proiect Cost  937.1  593.4 1,530.5    218.2  137.8  356.0
Interest during
construction    0.0   61.5    61.5       0.0   16.6   16.6
Total Financing     937.1  654.9 1,592.0    218.2  154.4  372.6
Required
Prolect Financing Plan
4.09      The Bank Group would provide $145 million for the project ($45
million as a Bank loan and SDR 78.9 million ($100 million equivalent) as an
IDA Credit), which is equivalent to 41% of the project cost and 39% of the
total financing required. This would finance about $138 million of foreign
exchange costs and $7 million of the local cost of civil works. SM would
provide the remaining funds amounting to Y 970 million ($227.6 million) or
61% of the total financing required. The proposed project financing plan is
shown in Table 4.2. Retroactive financing of up to $1 million for foreign
consultant services required for detailed design and preparation of contract
documents, commencing January 1, 1987 has been included.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Local   Foreign   Total      %
($ million) -
Financing
Proposed IBRD loan/IDA credit       7.2   137.8   145.0       38.9
Shanghai Municipal Government    211.0    16.6   227.6        61.1
Total                         218.2   154.4   372.6      100.0
4.10      The loan and the credit would be made to the Government of the
People's Republic of China (GOC). The loan would have the standard variable
interest rate for a 20-year term including a 5-year grace period. The
credit would be for a 50-year period including 10 years grace. The proceeds
of the loan and the credit would be onlent to SM at an interest rate of 4.5%



-14-
for a 20-year period including five years grace according to the standard
procedure for China. SM would bear the commitment charges on the Bank loan,
as well as the foreign exchange risk. A Project Agreement was concluded
between the Bank/IDA and SM. The Project Agreement defined the financial
objectives of the SSC, and the financial arrangements for the transfer of
assets and debts of the project from SM to SSC upon project completion.
These financial arrangements would form the basis of a Transfer and
Operation Agreement to be made between SM and SSC. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from SM that it would send a copy of the draft
Transfer and Operation Agreement to the Bank/IDA for review not later than
December 31, 1990, and to have the Agreement concluded not later than
December 31, 1991. Approval of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements
by the State Council would be conditions of loan and credit effectiveness.
Status of Engineering
4.11      The project feasibility study was completed by SM with the
assistance of Australian consultants financed by ADAB. Engineering design
work is being carried cut by three design institutes, the Shanghai Municipal
Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI), the Shanghai Tunnel Design Institute
(STDI) and the Design Institute of BMEA, supervised by the Shanghai Sewerage
Project Construction Company (para. 4.12) assisted by consultants.  All
three design institutes are well staffed and have experience in the design
of similar works. Their qualifications are satisfactory to the Bank/IDA.
Design for all works to be constructed in 1987 have been completed, and
tender documents are under preparation. The Zirst tender will be invited by
June 1987. Work completed to date includes design and drawings for tunnels
and box culverts suitable for international bidding. Preliminary design of
other project components has also been completed. Because of the size and
complexity of the project, the Bank/IDA has asked SM to continue to engage
expert foreign consultants to advise on project engineering and
construction.
Project Management
4.12      SM is in the process of creating a high level leadership group
(HLLG) headed by the Deputy Mayor to direct and coordinate project
implementation. Membership of the HLLG would include senior officials from
various concerned commissions and bureaus, including the Planning
Commission, the Construction Commission, the Economic Commission, the
Foreign Economic and Trade Commission, the Urban Planning Commission, the
Bureau of Finance, the Bureau of Municipal Engineering Administration and
the Environmental Protection Bureau. Day-to-day management of the project
will be handled by the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company
(SSPCC) which has already been established. The SSPCC will come
organizationally under the HLLG. SSPCC's Manager, a senior engineer
appointed by BMEA, will be a member of the HLLG. One of the Deputy Managers
of the SSPCC will be a senior official from SSC. Total SSPCC's staffing
requirement is estimated to be about 1,400 man-years with a peak staff of
about 300 persons in 1988 and 1989. SSPCC's organization is shown in Annex
11. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the staff, functions
and responsibilities of the SSPCC would be maintained throughout project
implementation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank/IDA.



-15-
Consultant Services
4.13      Consultant services for project preparation were provided by ADAB
to SM under a grant of about A$2 million covering detailed design and
preparation of bid documents up to December 1986. After this, engineering
consultant services would be financed under the project through retroactive
financing for the period from January 1, 1987 to loan/credit effectiveness
and directly from the project thereafter (para. 4.11). Consultant services
would also be required for project-related studies. Foreign consultant
services (excluding those provided by ADAB), estimated at a total cost of
$2.4 million, including salary, costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence, would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the use of consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the World Bank as
executing agency. SM would provide engineering and project management
services estimated at about 18,500 local man-months of which about 10% would
be for local consultants. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
SM that it would engage consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA on a
continuous basis to advise on detailed design, preparation of contract
documents, supervision of project construction and the conducting of
project-related studies.
Procurement
4.14      All major contracts would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. Contracts of less than $3 million (approximately Y 11 million)
for smaller civil works and works which are scattered throughout congested
parts of the city, aggregating to not more than $30 million (approximately
Ylll million), and less than $270,000 (approximately Y 1 million) for
equipment aggregating to not more than $5 million (approximately Y 19
million), would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB). Bid
documents for civil works under ICB would adopt procedures which would
ensure fair competition for both local and foreign bidders. Procedures now
used for civil works contracts under ICB in Bank Group-financed projects in
China ensure such fair competition by providing for a schedule of prices for
local wage rates and local unit material costs to be specified by the
procurement agency and used by both local and foreign bidders, and allow for
actual payments to be adjusted or indexed with changes in these prices. The
Bank has reviewed the LCB procedures to be followed and considers them to be
satisfactory. For bid evaluation purposes under ICB, a 15% margin of
preference or an amount equal to customs duties, whichever is lower, would
be applied for locally produced equipment and materials. For civil works
contracts under ICB, domestic contractors would be given a margin of
preference of 7-1/2%. Prior review of procurement documents by the Bank
will be required for all civil works contracts estimated to cost more than
$6 million (approximately Y 22 million), and for all contracts for goods
estimated to cost more than $2 million (approximately Y 7 million). The
proposed project contracts are shown in Annex 8. Assistance for procurement
would be provided by the Shanghai Corporation for Foreign and Technological
Cooperation which comes under the Shanghai Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade Commission, the Municipality counterpart of the Central Ministry of
Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Procurement arrangements are shown in
Table 4.3.



.16-
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Method
Proiect Element                                            Total
ICB        LCB       Other           Cost
Civil Works          128.8       18.3                      147.1
(39.0)     (5.5)                     (44.5)
Materials &           106.8       3.3                      110.1
Equipment           (94.0)     (1.7)                     (95.7)
Technical                                   25.9            25.9
Assistance                                 (4.8)          (4.8)
Land and                                    72.8            72.8
Resettlement
Total                 235.6      21.6       98.7           355.9
(133.0)     (7.2)      (4.8)         (145.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts (including
contingencies) to be financed by the Bank/IDA.
Disbursement
4.15      The proposed Bank loan of $45 million and IDA credit of SDR 78.9
million (equivalent to $100 million) would be disbursed over a period of six
years as follows:
1. Civil Works              $44.5 million    40% of total expenditures
2. Materials and            $95.7 million    100% of foreign expenditures
Equipment                               and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Technical assistance    $ 4.8 million    100% of total expenditures
4.16      A Special Account with an authorized allocation of US dollar
equivalent of SDR 7.5 million, based on four months average disbursement,
would be established to facilitate disbursements for the above expenditures.
Replenishment would be made on a quarterly basis or whenever the Special
Account is drawn to 50% of its initial deposit value. Disbursements for
overseas training, contracts of civil works, goods and services valued at
less than $200,000 would be made on the basis of statement of expenditures
(SOE) to be certified by the SSPCC. Docwuments supporting the SOEs would be
retained by the SSPCC and made available for inspection by Bank/IDA
supervision missions. All other disbursements will be made against fully
documented expenditures. The disbursement schedule (Annex 10) is based on



-17-
and agrees with the standard disbursement schedule for China. Project
completion is estimated to be December 31, 1992, and the loan/credit
closing date would be June 30, 1993.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
4.17     A comprehensive survey was carried out by SM on land required for
the project. The survey identified the land to be acquired for pump
stations and treatment plant, the land required for street widening to
accommodate the large sewers, and the land to be rented during construction.
The survey also identified the houses that have to be demolished and the
people to be resettled. Demolition of existing housing hac been kept to a
minimum through a prudent choice of sewer routes. SM has land acquisition
regulations (No. 119 of October 20, 1980) which outline the procedures and
compensations required. Current policy requires the project to construct
not less than three square meters of housing space for every square meter
demolished. In addition relocated persons are paid moving expenses. Those
compensations are included in the project cost estimates. Housing for
displaced persons would be purchased from housing enterprises or constructed
under the project. The latter is necessary because of present housing
shortages. It is estimated that a period of about 15 months would be
required to provide housing for resettlement. SM anticipates no difficulty
in carrying out the resettlement program, as SSPCC has a team responsible
for land acquisition and resettlement, and preparation work in this area is
now well advanced. The various steps to be undertaken for resettlement are
outlined in Annex 13. Housing of about 60,000 square meters for about 5,000
persons to be resettled in the first year of project implementation would be
purchased, and the required number of housing units has been assured by SM.
The resettlement schedule prepared by SM (Annex 9) is satisfactory to the
Bank. During negotiations assurances were obtained from SM that it would
carry out resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and
according to a schedule vhich is satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. An
understanding on the various steps to be taken for resettlement was reached
during negotiations.
Monitoring Criteria
4.18     The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 9.
Financial monitoring indicators are in Table 5 of Annex 15. Reports on
project implementation progress and on SSC's operations would be prepared by
the SSPCC and sent to the Bank/IDA quarterly commencing September 1, 1987.
A project completion report reviewing the planned objectives and the
achievements of the project, including costs and benefits derived and
performance and contribution of all parties associated with the project
execution and system operation, would be prepared by SM and submitted to the
Bank/IDA within six months following the closing date of the Loan/Credit.
Environmental Pollution Control
4.19      Shanghai is taking various physical measures to reduce water
pollution in the city. The EPB is also formulating new pollution control
regulations with more stringent industrial effluent standards to be enacted
during 1987. These regulations would specify the standards for industrial
effluents discharged into natural water bodies (e.g. Huangpu River and



-18-
Changjiang). Pollution charges on effluents exceeding the prescribed
standards are already being collected by EPB. Sewer regulations also to be
enacted in 1987 would prescribe pretreatment requirements for industrial
effluents for discharge into separate sewers and the combined sewers in the
service areas included in the project. These regulations would include
mandatory threshold levels for toxic and non-biodegradable pollutants, and a
framework for effluent strength charges for biodegradable matter. The
drafts of both regulations were reviewed during appraisal. Industrial
sewerage charges based on volume as well as effluent strength would be
studied in the proposed tariff study (para. 6.04).  To help industries
install appropriate pretreatment facilities, SM would arrange financing of
construction costs through local banks, provide funds collected from
pollution charges and explore bilateral sources for imported equipment. SM
is already implementing tax exemption measures which deduct from taxable
income the capital and interest for expenditures incurred by industries to
construct pretreatment facilities. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from SM that the new pollution control regulations and the sewer
regulations would both be enacted not later than December 31, 1988. An
understanding was obtained that SM would arrange suitable sources of
financing for industries to construct pretreatment facilities, and continue
with tax exemption measures and such measures which are acceptable to the
Bank/IDA.
4.20      It is envisaged that monitoring of the quality of industrial
effluents within SSC's system would initially be carried out with the
assistance of EPB staff who are familiar with the work. New equipment for
environmental quality monitoring, estimated to cost about $750,000, is
included in the project. EPB would continue to be responsible for
monitoring of environmental quality in water bodies within the municipality
and of industrial effluents outside of SSC's system.
4.21      Because of the presence of other point and non-point pollution
discharges into the Huangpu River both upstream and downstream of the city,
the project alone will not completely solve the environmental problems of
the river. SM will therefore set up an organization with responsibilities
to allocate water resources and to control waste discharges in the Huangpu
River in order to preserve the quality of the water. A river basin
management study of the Huangpu River is included in the project to set up
the institutional framework for this organization and to develop a model to
allocate and manage the Huangpu River's water resources, optimize water use
and ensure the environmental integrity of the river. Th.e proposed terms of
reference of the study are in Annex 18. Assurances were obtained from SM
during negotiations that the proposed study would be completed not later
than December 31, 1988, under terms of reference and with the assistance of
consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, and the results of the study would
be reviewed with the Bank/IDA.



-19-
V. THE BENEFICIARY
The Shanghai Sewerage Company
5.01      The Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC), the project beneficiary,
will be established as a self-accounting and self-funding enterprise
responsible for sewerage in the SMR. SSC will maintain and operate existing
as well as new facilities to be constructed under the proposed project.
Existing Institutional Arrangements
5.02      Urban matters in Shanghai Municipality (SM) are overseen by the
Planning Commission (PC), the Economic Commission (EC) and the Capital
Commission (CC), each of which supervises several bureaus. ThLe bureaus
carry out planning, design, capital construction and operation of all major
projects.  The PC, the EC and the Bureau of Finance (BOF) approve all
physical and financial plans and budgets for submission to the People's
Standing Committee of SM and to the State Council in Beijing. Sewerage
works are the responsibility of the Bureau of Urban Planning (BUP) under the
Urban Planning Commission for planning; and the Bureau of Municipal
Engineering Administration (BMEA) for design, construction, operation and
maintenance. BMEA is also responsible for urban road works. Given BMEA's
increasing workload, design and construction work is now also being
contracted out to other bureaus or enterprises. The Environmental
Protection Bureau of Shanghai (EPB), while organizationally under the Urban
Planning Commission, receives guidance directly from the EPA. EPB is
responsible for monitoring environmental quality and pollutant discharges,
and compliance with environmental standards within SM. It has the power to
impose charges and fines on polluters. The Bureau of Sanitation
Administration (BSA) handles night soil collection and its disposal.  The
SMWC (para. 2.05) provides piped water supply in the SMR.
5.03      BMEA has the main responsibility for sewerage services in
Shanghai. It is headed by a Director General, and has inhouse staff
facilities to design and construct municipal works as well as conduct
research and training in this area. Operation and maintenance of the system
is shared by two divisions: (a) the Municipal Drainage Administration
Division (MDAD) responsible for sewage pumping stations and sewage treatment
plants; and (b) the Municipal Engineering Administration Division (MEAD)
responsible for sanitary and combined sewers. MEAD is also responsible for
maintenance of urban roads and bridges. Physical planning, design and
construction of sewerage works are carried out by a municipal engineering
design office, a municipal engineering development company and two
construction companies, all under BMEA. No user charges are presently
levied and sewerage operations are totally dependent on municipal funds.
Organizational Improvements
5.04      The current division of responsibilities is not considered
adequate for effective management of the vastly expanded system now
proposed. The absence of a cost recovery system in the past has also been
placing a heavy burden on the municipal finances, resulting in slow and
tardy expansion of the services and consequent deterioration of the
environment. SM has now recognized the need for consolidating the sewerage



-20-
services under one entity and making that entity financially viable by
introducing in stages sewerage charges on industrial, commercial and
domestic users. Several forms of organization for such an entity were
considered, including a joint organization for water supply and sewerage.
The latter arrangement, which would have been feasible in smaller cities,
was not favored because it would have entailed major organizational changes
and would have made the enterprise too unwieldy. SM decided, with the
Bank's agreement, that the SSC would be established under BMEA to take over
responsibility for all sewerage services including planning, operation,
maintenance, staffing, accounting, financial management and training, etc.,
with a mandate to charge for its services in order to make it self-
supporting.
5.05      SSC's charter, which was reviewed and agreed by the Bank/IDA, has
been approved by SM and signed. An application to Shanghai Administration
for Industry and Commerce for registration of SSC as a public enterprise in
Shanghai has already been made, and the procedures for this are expected to
be completed by July 1987. Registration of SSC is a condition of
loan/credit effectiveness. In practice this is a formality since the staff
now operating the sewerage system are de facto employees of the future SSC;
5.06      MDAD and its staff would form the base organization for SSC.  SSC
would also take over HEAD staff responsible for sewer maintenance work. As
of May 1986, MDAD had 2,365 employees comprising 135 engineers, 133
technicians, 207 administrative personnel, 113 Akilled workers, 1,495 semi-
skilled workers and 202 unskilled laborers. MEAD employs about 7,000
people, including about 220 engineers. MEAD staff is assigned to general
maintenance work on sewers, drains, roads and bridges.  Those working
exclusively on sewerage duties are not clearly identified, but it is
estimated that SSC would take over about 2,000 of MEAD's employees. Both
MDAD and MEAD are weak in the accounting and financial fields. SSC would
recruit experienced staff to strengthen the handling of its accounting and
financial activities. The development of SSC into a strong organization
capable of coping with the challenging tasks of managing the expanded system
and achieving the required financial goals would, however, need substantial
work in the following areas: (a) improving the organization structure; (b)
determining staffing needs and recruiting staff; (c) defining job
responsibilities for various levels of staff; (d) developing appropriate
management, financial and accounting systems; (e) establishing appropriate
tariffs; and (f) training staff. Tentative organizational proposals (Annex
12) made by the SM project preparation team and ADAB-funded consultants
recommend that SSC be governed by a Board with a General Manager as the
chief executive officer, and seven divisional managers for operation and
maintenance; materials management.; planning and design; technical and
scientific services; human services and training; finance and accounting and
administration and legal services. An internal auditor reporting directly
to the General Manager was also proposed. The total staff strength is
estimated at 3,350. Since these proposals need to be reviewed and refined,
a management and organization study is proposed to be carried out by a
Chinese team assisted by consultants. The study will review SSC's



-21-
organizational structure, functions and staffing needs, and develop
management information systems for planning, firz.zial management and
control. Draft terms of reference of the study are in Annex 19. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that SM would complete not later than
December 31, 1988 a management and organization study for SSC under terms of
reference and with the assistance of consultants acceptable to the Bank
Group, and would give the Bank Group the opportunity to comment on the
recommendations of the study before their implementation.
Lilling and Collection
5.07      Billing for sewerage services started in 1987 after the
introduction of tariffs for industrial and commercial consumers in December
1986 (para. 6.04). BMEA had initially proposed that the billing and
collection work would be entrusted to SMWC with appropriate fees. SMWC has
an excellent record for billing and collection -- with recoveries from non-
domestic consumers made through bank account transfers, the level of
receivables is insignificant and there are no bad debts. Billing and
collection of sewerage charges by SMWC would avoid unnecessary duplication
of work. However SY.WC does not wish to take on the additional work, given
the constraint that its billing is done manually. SM therefore decided that
SSC should handle its own billing and collection, with consumer water supply
meter readings provided by SMWC.  Collections for industrial consumers would
be made through bank account transfers. The joint billing for water supply
and sewerage services, including the setting up of a central billing agency,
would be reviewed under a proposed tariff study (para. 6.04).
Accounting
5.08     The accounts of MDAD and MEAD are maintained on a cash basis and
reflect expenditures incurred against budget allocations made by SM. Little
distinction is made between capital expenditures (replacements of plant) and
operating costs, and for most items they are merged with expenditures on
other activities of BMEA.
5.09      SSC will be a self-accounting entity under the leadership of BMEA.
National accounting regulations applicable to public enterprises, as
prescribed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), will be adopted by SSC
supplemented by management information systems and reporting procedures
recommended by the consultants (para. 5.06). SSC's accounts will be.
maintained on an accrual basis using a double entry s"stem.  The public
enterprise accounting system requires the preparation of an income  '
statement, balance sheet, cash flow and other supplementary statements on a
monthly and annual basis. This system is acceptable to the Bank Group.
5.10      Project accounts wi]l be maintained by the SSPCC (para. 4.12) in
accordance with the Government State Construction Unit Accounting System
This system sets out detailed accounting definitions for capital works, cash
control, receivables, payables, and specific rules for capitalizing and
expensing of various items. It also identifies a number of basic monthly
and annual reporting formats including funds flow statements and balance
sheets. The construction accounting system is comprehensive, and is adequate
for the proposed project.



-22-
Audits
5.11      The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit
Administration (SM) will be responsible for auditing the accounts of SSC
and of project expenditures. Actual audits will be conducted by the
Shanghai Municipality Audit Bureau (SMAB), a subordinate organization of
SAM. These arrangements are zatisfactory to the Bank Group. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from SM that it would cause SSC to
furnish SSC's annual financial statements, certified by SMAB or an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, to the Bank/IDA within six
months of the end of each financial year. Assurances were also obtained
that the accounts of the SSPCC, and the Special Account, duly audited by
SMAB or by an independent auditor, would similarly be submitted to the
Bank/IDA within six months of the end of each financial year.
5.12      Officers of SSC and of SSPCC would conduct internal audits of
their respective organizations. The SSPCC's internal auditor would report
to the SSPCC's Manager and SSC's to the General Manager.
Staff Training and Development
5.13     Training of staff employed in the operation and maintenance of
sewerage services is currently conducted in a fragmented and uncoordinated
way by BMEA's training institute and the Municipal Engineering Research
Institute. EPB and BUP also provide some training.
5.14     The project includes a comprehensive training program for SSPCC
and SSC formulated by BMEA with the assistance of the ADAB-financed
consultants. For SSPCC this program envisages training of managers,
engineers, computer operators and programmers and accountants. Three
management trainees and two engineers would receive training overseas for
periods of one to three months. Training courses for eight management
trainees, 60 computer operators/programmers and 60 financial staff will be
arranged in China. In addition, a foreign training expert will be engaged
for a three-month period who, with the assistance of Chinese engineers
trained overseas, will conduct intensive training courses for engineers in
Shangha.i. The training program of SSC staff includes: (a) training of four
Chinese trainers overseas for a total period of six months; (b) hiring of
three foreign specialists - one each for technical, management and finance -
to advise on training courses in Shanghai for a total period of 4-1/2
months; (c) management development program for ten senior managers and 15
managers at other levels for a total of 45 trainee-months; (d) attendance of
62 fresh recruits in 4-year professional and 3-year technical courses in
Chinese educational institutions; (e) mechanical operator training courses
for 200 employees for a total of 200 trainee-months; (f) intensive short
courses for 136 technicians, administrative and accounting staff; and (g)
procurement of training equipment.
5.15     The training programs for SSPCC and SSC are estimated to cost $0.2
million and $1.5 million respectively and are planned to be completed over
four years. Training and laboratory equipment amounting to about $0.6
million would also be required. Details are shown in Annex 21. The
management and organization study (para. 5.06) would review these proposals
and, if necessary, prepare supplemental training proposals for SSC and SSPCC



-23-
staff. At negotiations assurances were obtained from SM that the training
would be implemented by SSPCC and SSC after consultation and under a
schedule agreed with the Bank/IDA, and completed not later than December 31,
1990.
Insurance
5.16      Like other Government bureaus, BMEA's sewerage facilities are
self-insured. This has been justified because there have not been serious
incidents involving loss or destruction of sewerage property. However, in
view of the large investments now planned, SSC will take insurance with
appropriate coverage on its assets to be underwritten by the People's
Insurance Company.
Taxation
5.17      Under the current regulations, enterprises pay income tax at 55%
of their taxable income. In addition an adjustment tax is levied. The
latter tax varies for various enterprises with a maximum rate of about 35%
of the taxable income. SM, with approval from the Central Government, has
decided to exempt SSC from payment of these taxes. SSC would, however, be
required to pay a sales tax at the rate of 3% of its operating revenues. To
help SSC in its initial years of operation, the Central Government and SM
have decided to give SSC a tax holiday on sales tax for 1987 (para. 6.05).
VI. FINANCES
Past and Present Financial Position
6.01      Drainage and sewerage services are presently provided and financed
out of SM's budget. No user charges were levied before December 1986,
accounting was kept on a cash basis, no financial statements were produced
and the responsibility for sewerage services was divided between MDAD and
MEAD. These factors make it difficult to compile accurate financial
information for services to be taken over by SSC. For these reasons, the
financial information shown in Table 6.1 should be taken as approximate.
Financial data show that operating expenses increased 36% during the last
two years (1984-86). A major factor in the increase was the end-1984
increase in salaries, partly paid in 1985. Although the sewerage network
requires considerable improvetaents, capital expenditures during the last two
years averaged only about 0.3% of fixed assets. However, repair and
maintenance expenses (excluding labor) are high, reaching almost 2% of fixed
assets. This is due to the age of the fixed assets and the inclusion of
replacements of some assets in these expenses.



-24-
Table 6.1: PAST EXPENDITURES FOR SEWERAGE SERVICES
(Million Yuan)
1983      1984       1985       1986
--------- Actual --------      Estimated
Operating Expenses
Salaries and Wages             3.61       4.08      7.01        6.77
Power                          5.46       5.43      6.12        6.13
Repairs and Maintenance        8.07       8.74     11.67       11.00
Materials                      1.41       1.17      2.49        2.50
Administration                 0.40       0.47      0.59        0.57
Total Operating Expend.    18.95       19.89     27.88       26.97
Capital Expenditures         6.50       2.35      2.30        2.00
Balance Sheet and Fixed Assets
6.02      SSPCC has prepared an estimated Balance Sheet for sewerage
services (Annex 14). For this purpose MDAD estimated the replacement value
of fixed assets as of end-1983, based on the records maintained by it and
MEAD. SSPCC also computed the cumulative depreciation of the fixed assets.
The identified sewerage network of 1,050 km (0.15 m per person) seems to be
underestimated. However, any unreported pipelines have probably exceeded
their useful lives and being fully depreciated would not affect the
financial projections. By end-1985 fixed assets were 96% of the total
assets of Y 652 million ($176 million). The accumulated depreciation, Y 394
million, is equivalent to 60% of the value of the fixed assets. The average
depreciation rate is 2.5%. Fixed assets would increase 3.3 times and net
fixed assets would be 6.5 times larger upon project completion. For the
appraisal projections, the estimated replacement value of fixed assets is
satisfactory. However, SSC would require detailed records of the fixed
assets taken over from MDAD and MEAD, their location, value, useful lives
and depreciation. Assurances were obtained from SM during negotiations that
not later than December 31, 1988, SSC would complete and incorporate in its
books an inventory and valuation of its fixed assets.
Financial Objectives
6.03      Sewerage services are part of the general expenditures of the
city. During project preparation SM decided to establish the SSC, which
would be a self-supporcing, autonomous company. Sewerage tariffs were
introduced in December 1986 for industrial and commercial consumers, and
would be introduced in 1989 for domestic consumers (para. 6.04). These
tariffs are now collected by BMEA, but would be collected by SSC once it is
established (para. 5.05). Given the lack of any previous debt service,
these tariffs would eliminate the need for operating subsidies and allow SSC
to cover its operating expenses, pay interest during construction, finance
normal capital investments and accumulate a cash surplus during the project
implementation period (1987-1992). In 1993, when the project comes into
operation, an increase in the average tariff would be required (para. 6.04).
To maintain a satisfactory financial position, assurances were obtained



-25-
during negotiations that not later than 1993 SSC's revenues should be at
least sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance expenses (including
staff bonuses and welfare expenses) and the larger of either depreciation or
total debt service (total interest and principal expenses). To protect
SSC's capacity to pay debt service, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that no additional debt would be undertaken by SSC without Bank
Group agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that SSC would have a
debt service coverage of at least 1.3.
Sewerage Tariffs
6.04      Although almost half of the City population still use the bucket
system, grey water from most houses is discharged into the sewerage system
(para. 2.06). To support and finance SSC, SM has approved the introduction
of sewerage charges for both grey water and raw sewage. A sewerage charge
of Y 0.12 ($0.03) per m3 has been implemented on December 1, 1986 for
industrial and commercial consumers who contribute almost 80% of the City's
wastewater flov. The charges would be based on 90% of the water sold by
SMWC. SMWC is a.ready collecting a water charge of YO.12 per m3. A
sewerage tariff study would be conducted under the project by SSC with the
support of consultants to determine sewerage4 charges for SSC to achieve its
financial objectives (para. 6.03) with due e.onsideration given to consumer
affordability, in particular with regard to domestic sewerage charges of
YO.03/m3 expected to be implemented in 1989, and tariff increases required
after the proposed project comes into operation in 1993 (financial
projections show that an increase in the average tariff from YO.098/m3 to
YO.132/m3 would be required). The study would look into alternative methods
of charging (surcharges on water tariffs, taxes, land use fees, etc.), and
charges to provide incentives to reduce pollution (effluent strength and
pollution load charges). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
(a) sewerage charges agreed with the Bank/IDA would continue to be
implemented for commercial and industrial consumers; (b) a sewerage tariff
study would be completed not later than December 31, 1988, under terms of
reference and with the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA; and (c) the recommendations of the study would be discussed with
the Bank/IDA and implemented not later than June 30, 1989.
Future Financial Performance
6.05      BMEA will build the project works and, upon completion, will
transfer them to SSC. For continuity, the financial projections (Annex 15)
include project financing and investment. After project completion SSC
would also assume the debt service in local currency on the equivalent
amount of Bank loan and IDA credit. SSC repayment conditions to SM are 20
years, including five years grace, at 4.5% p.a. interest, which is in line
with interest rates for similar projects in China. SSC will pay the
interest during construction on the equivalent in local currency of the
Bank/IDA disbursements. SSC will be exempted from income and adjustment
taxes, and would receive a tax holiday for one year on its sales tax (para.
5.17) to enable it to cover debt service and expand sewerage services.
These tax exemptions were confirmed during negotiations.
6.06   *  The critical variables for SSC's financial viability are water
consumption, increase in operating efficiency, and capital and operating



-26-
expenditures of the project. The water sold by SMWC, the basis for sewerage
charges, is expected to increase, on the average, by some 3% to 4% p.a. from
population and industrialization growth, higher incomes, better housing, and
increased use of flush toilets. However, the introduction of sewerage
charges in 1987 for industrial and commercial consumers is expected to lower
water consumption by about 20% between 1987 and 1988. Domestic sewerage
charges (estimated at Y 0.03 per m3) in 1989 and further increases in 1993
will increase SSC's financial viability. In addition SSC's operating
efficiency and cost control efforts are expected to increase with staff
training under the project. The ongoing program for renewal and expansion
of housing in Shanghai would increase the number of sewer connections to the
system.   This, together with limitations on staff increase, would reduce
the number of staff per thousand sewer connections from 10.0 in 1986 to 7.7
in 1993. The possibility to install sewer connections which take both grey
and soil water as a result of the project will increase the population with
flush toilets from 51% to 65% in the same period. Operating expenses would,
however, be increased by 43% between 1991 and 1993 with commissioning of the
project.
6.07        SSC's financial projections are presented in Annex 15 and
summarized in Table 6.2. Assumptions for these projections are in Annex 14.
Under the proposed financial covenant (para. 6.03), SSC's financial
performance would be satisfactory. SSC's revenues would increase from Y 85
million to Y 138 million between 1987 and 1993. This would involve a tariff
increase of about 35% in 1993, which just about maintains in real terms the
initial tariffs of about Y 0.12 per m3 for commercial and industrial
consumers and about Y 0.03 per m3 for domestic consumers. These sewerage
charges are easily affordable (para. 7.10). SSC's financing plan (Annex 15,
Table 4) shows that the project represents 92% of total investments, and
that cash would accumulate during this period. It includes: (a) onlending
of the Bank/IDA proceeds, 36.5%; (b) SM's equity contributions 56.5%; (c)
other loans (Stage 2 Project), 2.1%; and (d) internal cash contributions,
4.9%.



-27-
Table 6.2: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
1987    1989    1991    1993    1994
Domestic Sewage billed (Mln m3)        204.4   208.2   226.8   247.0   259.1
Comm. & Ind. Sewage billed (Mln m3)  704.2   666.1   722.3   770.5   800.6
Total Sewage billed (Mln m3)           908.7   874.3   949.1  1017.5  1059.7
Domestic Tariff (Y/m3)                0.000   0.030   0.030   0.040   0.043
Comm. & Ind. Tariff (Y/m3)            0.120   0.120   0.120   0.161   0.173
Average Tariff (Y/m3)                  0.093   0.099   0.098   0.132   0.141
Operating Revenues (Mln Y)             84.51   88.59   96.43  137.70  154.23
Operating Expenses (Mln Y)             30.48   39.45   45.19   63.79   71.34
Net Income (Mln Y)                     37.65   35.30   39.67   -0.47    8.3C
Operating Ratio                        55.4%   63.2%   64.1%   86.1%   81.8%
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets   15.9%   15.7%   19.2%    1.2%    1.8%
Debt Service Ratio                                               1.14    1.30
Total Debt to Equity                   11.2%   22.7%   37.4%   57.6%   74.5%
6.08      The most critical year for SSC's financial performance is 1993,
when the project comes into operation and debt payments begin. Even then,
SSC's financial performance would be satisfactorily and comparable to other
similar utilities. In 1993, SSC's operating ratio would be 86%, which is
satisfactory but higher than the 64% averaged during 1987-92. After project
completion the fixed asset base would be substantially increased, tripling
the amount allowed for depreciation. This reduces SSC's rate of return on
net fixed assets from an average of 10% during project construction to about
2%, which is low, but comparable to other sewerage utilities. By 1993,
SSC's debt equity ratio would be 75%, and SSC would be able to finance
internally about 15% of the cost of the second stage sewerage project.
After SSC is established and is operating satisfactorily, plans should
immediately be made to efficiently deploy the forecast surplus cash
available. These plans could include the use of the funds to rehabilitate
and expand the sewerage network and pump stations, or finance part of the
project expenditures. As in other countries, SSC may also establish a
revolving fund to finance and promote the installation of flush toilet
facilities and sewer connections.
Shanghai Municipal Finances
6.09      SM has considerable revenues, amounting to Y 17,500 million in
1986. However, only 23.2% (Y 4,060 million) is retained by the
Municipality. The remaining funds are remitted to the Central Government.
After covering its administration and recurrent expenditures (Y 2,500
million), SM has been budgeting about Y 1,300 million ($350 million) per
year for capital investments. Future investments would be higher due to the
planned construction of the subway, bridges, urban transport and housing.
The project investments will be financed by the IBRD loan and IDA credit,
and SM's contributions. The latter are forecast at Y 1,062 million, and



-28-
peak in 1989 at Y 289 million, representing 22% of SM's budgeted investments
in that year.
VII. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
Project Justification
7.01     Waterways in Shanghai are already extremely polluted (para. 2.11),
and pollution loads are expected to increase further with projected growth
in industrial output and personal incomes. It is estimated that, if
adequate pollution abatement measures are not carried out urgently, by 1990
dissolved oxygen (a measure of river water quality) will be reduced to zero
over a length of 28 km of the Huangpu River at Shanghai during low river
flows occurring about 10% of the time (Annex 2). Pollution will be
especially severe in Suzhou Creek, a major tributary of the Huangpu River,
where dissolved oxygen levels are already reduced to zero along its entire
length through the City area (20 km) for a large part of the year. Such
conditions would pose serious hardship on Shanghai's residents, and the
proposed project is required to alleviate these conditions. The project,
the first of two stages, has been determined to be the least-cost approach
for improving the water quality of the Huangpu River and its tributaries to
achieve in part the specific water quality goals mentioned in para. 2.10.
It will address in particular the very serious water pollution problems in
Suzhou Creek. Because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits in sewerage
projects, the premise that the project is the least-cost approach will be
used to provide the principal basis for the Justification of the project.
Least-Cost Considerations
7.02     A two-step process was used to arrive at the least-cost solution
for the project. The first step involves obtaining the least-cost method of
wastewater disposal among potential alternatives using different processes
to achieve water quality objectives. The alternatives considered included:
(a) an intercepting sewer with the outfall in the Changjiang estuary;
(b) large treatment facilities with effluents discharging into the
Huangpu River;
(c) full on-site treatment of industrial and domestic wastewater;
(d) full on-site treatment of industrial wastewater and minimum
treatment of domestic wastewater using septic tanks for households
currently on the night-soil system; and
(e) a non-construction alternative involving reduction of industrial
wastewater by relocating a sufficiently large number of polluting
industries outside of Shanghai.
It was concluded that Alternative (a), for the construction of an
intercepting sewer, was by far the lowest-cost alternative (about half as



-29-
costly as the next best alternative), and it was adopted for the project
(Annex 16).
7.03     The second step involves the optimum selection of design
configuration for the chosen intercepting sewer solution. Major design
considerations included the choice of outfall location, sewer routing
(including considerations of space availability and traffic interruption),
and appropriate construction methods. During the course of the work, the
site for the best location for the sewer outfall (from cost and hydraulic
dispersion points of view) was ruled out on the grounds that its outfall
would interfere with shipping and related facilities. A second acceptable
site was therefore adopted. Capital costs were minimized by using less-
costly construction methods whenever possible (e.g. c&s1verts in lieu of
tunnels). Land acquisition and demolition of existing structures were kept
to a m:f.nimum by prudent choice of sewer routings.
Prolect Benefits
7.04     The primary benefits of the project come from its contribution to
improving environmental quality in Shanghai's waterways, in particular
Suzhou Creek, through the removal of industrial and domestic wastewater
which is currently discharged, largely untreated, directly into the
waterways, and the potential additional economic values such improvement
creates.
7.05     The project will also have substantial longer-term benefits by
establishing an efficient institutional framework for managing liquid wastes
in Shanghai. It will establish a financially self-supporting sewerage
company, SSC (para. 5.01), provide staff training (para. 5.13), and
strengthen SM's capability to monitor and control environmental pollution
with the promulgation of tighter regulations for water pollution control and
sewerage operations (para. 4.19). Appropriate sewerage tariffs for SSC to
meet its financial objectives and to provide incentives for pollution
abatement would also be determined and implemented under the project (para.
6.04). An organization responsible for management of the Huangpu River
water resources, to include allocation and setting effluent discharge
standards, would also be set up (para. 4.21). In addition the project would
provide an effective model for liquid waste management which can be emulated
in other Chinese cities.
7.06     An attempt has been made to estimate an economic rate of return to
the proposed investment, but there are major difficulties in arriving at
satisfactory proxies for benefits, and some benefits (e.g. to health) are
only very partially captured in the quantification. Moreover, the full
realization of certain benefits depends upon a series of governmental
choices that would have to be made in the context of administered prices and
the absence of market signals regarding changing input and output prices.
7.07     Improvement in water quality in the presently highly polluted
Suzhou Creek has the potential to result in substantial, but difficult to
quantify, increases in property values in the vicinity of the Creek. The
magnitude of these increases, a measure of project benefit, is a function of
both the size of the affected area and the degree to which the environmental
improvement causes higher production (or utility) from more economic land



-30-
use. Order-of-magnitude estimates of these potential benefits, based upon
current survey data of net profitability from property (annual income less
annual costs) in various Shanghai districts, show a present value of about
Y1,200 million, using conservative assumptions on the size of the improved
areas and after taking into account development costs to achieve improved
land use. As indicated above, the realization of these benefits will depend
largely on whether or not SM chooses to facilitate redevelopment in the
environmentally-improved area. Additional benefits, conservatively
estimated to be about Y 200-300 million in present value, can also accrue
from increased vegetable production on land currently affected by polluted
water, reduction of treatment costs for use of water drawn directly from
water courses, and water supply savings from use of more water drawn
directly from Suzhou Creek and the Huangpu River due to the improved
quality. Annex 16 gives additional information about the above estimates.
7.08      The sum total of all the various proxy benefits described above is
about Y1,400 million at a discount rate of 10%, compared with an estimated
present value of the project capital and operating costs of about Y 1,100
million. The economic rate of return (ERR) estimated using the above cost
and benefit streams is on the order of 13%.
Average Incremental Cost and Affordability
7.09      The average incremental cost of the project is estimated to be
Y 0.39/m3 at a discount rate of 10%. This value becomes Y 0.46/m3 after
shadow pricing of inputs (Annex 16). The currently proposed sewerage tariff
of Y 0.12/m3 (para. 6.04) on industrial and commercial users is below the
average incremental cost of the project. However, as the project has
substantial external benefits from environmental improvement (para 7.05),
direct users of the system, who are not the only beneficiaries, need not be
required to cover total project costs.  The proposed tariff study (para.
6.04) will address, among other things, the issue of how the project's
average incremental costs would be reflected in the sewerage charges.
7.10      Incomes in Shanghai have risen substantially in real terms in
recent years. On average, per capita real income rose by 12.3% between 1984
and 1985. Survey data on household incomes in 1983 and 1984 are available,
and these were extrapolated to obtain 1986 data. At sewerage charges equal
to the average incremental cost, it is found that household expenditures for
sewerage would represent only about 1.0% of household income at the 25th
percentile of income distribution. At che charge of Y 0.03/m3, suggested to
be levied in 1989, expected expenditure would be less than one-tenth of one
percent of the income at the 25th percentile (Annex 16). Thus the project
is clearly affordable to low-income households.
7.11      It is difficult to establish a precise estimate of the share of
the project which serves households in poverty in the Shanghai context. The
income distribution as reported in household surveys is very flat with
little income differential between deciles. Moreover, neighborhoods tend
not to be differentiated according to income. One possibly relevant
indicator of service to the poor is that the project area contains about 1.5
million of the City's 2.7 million people who are on the nightsoil system,
lacking indoor plumbing. Because domestic wastes may be fully discharged
into the sewer once the project is implemented, the project will encourage



-31-
households lacking indoor plumbing to improve their dwellings and improve
sanitary conditions.
Environmental Impact
7.12      The project will improve the environment in the City of Shanghai
through the removal of wastewater discharges into its waterways. There
will, however, be an adverse impact to city residents during construction in
loss of time and inconvenience from traffic congestion and disruption due to
the extent of the construction works to be carried out in overcrowded city
areas, but careful construction management will minimize this impact. To
examine if there could be any adverse environmental effect from the
discharge of the intercepted wastewater into the Changjiang estuary,
extensive model studies have been carried out by two research institutes in
China. The results show quite conclusively that the quality of the river
water, after recei-ving the discharged wastewater, would reach ambient
conditions within about one km from the discharge point (para. 4 of Annex
2). Because the river channel is almost 10 km wide at this location, and
the outfall point is about 1-1/2 km from the river bank, no adverse
environmental effects on beach activities and fishlife are expected.
Project Risks
7.13     There is a remote possibility that environmental quality in the
Changjiang estuary could be worse than is now predicted as a result of the
project. This could result from unforeseen strong effluents entering the
system or from an actual lower assimilative capacity in the Changjiang than
is now expected. Monitors have, however, been built into the project to
ensure that abnormal sewage effluents would be detected early and remedies
found.  Furthermore, model studies on the assimilative capacity of the
estuary have shown a large margin of safety in the capacity of the
Changjiang to assimilate the proposed wastewater discharges. Thus the
likelihood of environmental. problems occurring at the Changjiang is small.
Should this happen, it would still be possible to supplement the minimal
treatment currently planned by additional treatment prior to discharge to
the Changjiang.
7.14      It is also possible that the water quality objectives (and hence
the benefits associated with environmental improvement) in Suzhou Creek and
the Huangpu will not be reached even though major sources of pollution in
the City are intercepted. This can arise from increased point and non-point
pollution upstream of the project area. This risk is reduced by the strong
interest of SM to improve environmental quality, and the measures taken to
manage the water resources of the Huangpu River (para. 4.21).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At negotiations assurances were obtained from SM on the following:
(a) a study to examine economic ways to rehabilitate the existing pipe
system would be conducted on terms of reference and with
assistance from consultants acceptable to the Bank/IDA, and that



-32-
the study would be completed not later than December 31, 1989, and
the results reviewed with the Bank/IDA (para. 2.08);
(b) SM would send a copy of the draft Transfer and Operations
Agreement to the Bank/IDA for review by December 31, 1990, and to
have the agreement concluded with SSC not later than December 31,
1991 (para. 4.10);
(c) the staff, functions and responsibilities of the SSPCC would be
maintained throughout project implementation in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 4.12);
(d) consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA would be engaged on a
continuous basis to advise on detailed design, preparation of
contract documents, supervision of project construction and
conducting of project-related studies (para. 4.13);
(e) resettlement of persons affected by the project would be carried
out in a manner and according to a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA (para. 4.17';
(f) new pollution control regulations and sewer regulations would be
enacted not later than December 31, 1988 (para. 4.19);
(g) a river basin management study for the Huangpu River basin would
be conducted under terms of reference and with the assistance of
consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, and completed not later
than December 31, 1988, and the results reviewed with the Ba-k/IDA
(para. 4.21);
(h) a management and organization study for SSC would be conducted on
terms of reference and with the assistance of consultants
acceptable to the Bank/IDA, and completed not later than December
31, 1988, and that comments of the Bank/IDA would be sought prior
to implementation of the study's recommendations (para. 5.06);
(i) annual financial statements of the SSC, certified by SMAB or an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group, would be
furnished to the Bank/IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year, and the accounts of the SSPCC and the Special
Account, duly audited by SMAB or by such independent auditor,
would be submitted to the Bank/IDA within six months of the end of
each financial year (para. 5.11);
(j) the proposed training program would be implemented by SSPCC and
SSC after consultation and according to a schedule agreed with the
Bank/IDA and completed not later than December 31, 1990 (para.
5.15);
(k) SSC would complete and incorporate in its books an inventory and
valuation of its fixed assets not later than December 31, 1988
(para. 6.02);



-33-
(1) not later than January 1, 1993, SSC's revenues should be at least
sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance expenses and the
larger of either depreciation or total debt service, and that no
additional debt would be undertaken by SSC without Bank/IDA
agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that SSC would bave
a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 (para. 6.03);
(m) sewerage charges agreed with the Bank/IDA would continue to be
implemented for commercial and industrial consumers, and that a
sowerage tariff study, under terms of reference and with the
assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank/IDA would be
completed not later than December 31, 1988, and the
recommendations of the Atudy discussed with the Bank/IDA and
implemented not later than June 30, 1989 (para. 6.04);
8.02     Understandings were reached and recorded in the minutes of
negotiations on the following:
(a) The various steps to be taken for resettlement were agreed (para.
4.17);
(b) SM would arrange suitable sources of financing for industries to
construct pretreatment facilities (para. 4.19);
(c) SSC would be exempted from income and adjustment taxes, and SSC
would also receive a tax holiday on its sales tax in its initial
year of operation (para. 6.05).
8.03      Conditions of loan and credit effectiveness are:
(a) Borrower's State Council approval of the Loan and Development
Credit Agreements (para. 4.09).
(b) registration of the Shanghai Sewerage Company, SSC (para. 5.05).
8.04      With the above assurances and understandings the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$45 million at standard variable interest rate
for a 20-year term including a 5-year grace period, and an IDA credit of SDR
78.9 million (US$100 million) on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be
the People's Republic of China.



- 34  -                                     Annex 1
CHIII
SHAW.-MI SEWNSACE PROJECT
FloW Diagram of Existing Sewrage System
Domestic ,Indust rial
Waste                                                                              Waste
6.0    ,                                                                            8.7
Bucekt                                 Plush
System:                                Tollet
3.0                                    1 0
Sicreta         Grey            Grey
Water          WtrIsto
3.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-solSe r S                                                                  Efflue
!   21           21              09              09
|   Land              | |Ce*ud                                                                                   40%O
|  Dissposal                                               s |  rs 
Chban.jiag                                  Eu.|H pu River
and                                           -"
Hanghou Say                                    Tributaries
Note: Numbers in boxes refer to population or populotion
equivalent In millions contributing to the vaste.



- 35 -           Annex 2  page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Wastewater Disposal Alternatives
1.        Alternatives studied for collecting wastewater from houses and
factories included: (a) using the existing combined sewer system with a new
intercepting sewer, and (b) constructing a new separate sanitary sewer
system. The cost of a new separate sanitary sewerage system, however, far
outweigh.ad the benefit from the slightly better environmental quality that
could be achieved with the combined sewers. In addition, the crowded
conditions of the city areas would pose serious construction problems.
Continuing use of the combined sewers for wastewater collection was
therefore adopted,
2.        For final disposal of the collected wastewater the following
alternatives were studied:
a. The use of a single sewage treatment plant located at the eastern
edge of the City, with secondary treatment and effluent
discharging into the Huangpu River.
b. The use of multiple (3) treatment plants located in the northern,
southern and eastern edges of the City Proper with secondary
treatment and effluents discharging into the Huangpu River or its
tributaries.
c. The use of a smaller treatment plant for areas in the southern
part of the City, and construction of an intorcepting sewer to
transport wastewater from the remaining City areas to the
Changjiang estuary for disposal.
d. Transporting all wastewater from the City Proper via a large
intercepting sewer to the Changjiang estuary for disposal. Four
feasible outfall locations (Gaoqiao, Shi Dong Kou, Bai Long Gang
and Zhuyuan) have been studied.
3.        Alternative (d) was found to be the least-cost alternative.  The
most favorable location of the outfall for this alternative from a hydraulic
dispersion point of view was for discharge of the wastewater into the South
Channel of the South Branch of the Changjiang estuary at Gaoqiao. The river
estuary is about 40 km wide at this point and is divided into three flow
channels, the North Branch and the South Branch which is further subdivided
into the North and South Channels. The South Channel itself is about 6 km
in width, and is an important local as well as international shipping route.
Further investigations revealed serious objections to the use of the Gaoqiao
location by the Harbor Control Department of the Ministry of Transport,
because of the necessity to locate the outfall diffusers in the main
navigation channel to avoid polluting the shoreline (the navigation channel
is only about 1 km from the shoreline). It was contended that delay or
damage to busy shipping using the navigation channel could occur both during
the construction period and when repair and maintenance work have to be
carried out. The location at Zhuyuan, about 4 km downstream of Gaoqiao,



- 36 -          Annex 2 page 2 of 2
which was subsequently studied, ranked second for hydraulic dispersion, but
would allow the navigation channel to be avoided by the outfall altogether.
Although the construction cost in using the outfall at this location would
be about $20 million more than at Gaoqiao, the potential cost of delay and
damage to shipping by locating the outfall at Gaoqiao was estimated to be
much higher. Locating the outfall at Zhuyuan was therefore selected.
4.       An important aspect studied was the environmental impact of
discharging partially treated wastewater into the Changjiang estuary (only
preliminary treatment by screening was proposed). A higher degree of
treatment would not have made the alternative as economically viable.
Because of the earlier inclination towards the Gaoqiao location, physical
model tests were conducted for this location at the Nanjing Hydraulic
Academy and the Changjiang Scientific Hydraulic Research Institute to study
the diffusion characteristics of the river and pollutant concentration
profiles. Dye tests were also carried out to trace potential travel paths
of pollutants in order to determine any adverse effects on downstream users
of the river. The tests showed quite conclusively that with properly
designed diffusers the mixing capability of the river at Gaoqiao was such
that the quality of the water after receiving the wastewater discharge would
almost reach the ambient river water quality level within 0.5 km of the
discharge point in any direction. Model tests were not reconducted at the
Zhuyuan location, but because of the similarity in river characteristics
between this location and Gaoqiao, quite reliable conclusions could be
inferred using data from the Gaoqiao tests. These conclusions indicated
that because of the shallower river bed, the mixed fluids (wastewater and
river water) would take longer (0.75 km instead of 0.5 km) to reach ambient
quality. This condition is considered to be acceptable since any
undesirable zone would be limited to an area of about 1.5 sq km in the
middle of the river and any impact on fishlife or shore activities would be
minimal.
5.       A computer model (the AUTOSS steady-state model adapted for use
with an IBM PC-XT computer) was used to predict water quality conditions in
the Huangpu River with no action taken and under the reduced pollution
loads with the implementation of the alternatives considered. The pollution
load discharged into the Huangpu River at present from the City alone is
around 450 t/day in terms of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), and is
expected to grow to 770 t/day in 1990. In addition, pollution loads (point
and non-point) are also being discharged into the river upstream and
downstream of the City. The model study showed that the assimilative (self-
purification) capacity of the river is about 100 t/day. It also showed that
if nothing is done to relieve pollution, the present situation would rapidly
deteriorate, and by 1990 dissolved oxygen (DO), a measure of river water
quality, would be reduced to zero over a length of 28 km for an average of
10% of the time at low river flows, compared to a DO level of 0.44 mg/l over
a length of 4 km.  The study also showed that, with secondary treatment of
all wastewater from the City, the DO level would be raised to a minimum
level of 3.0 mg/l during low flow (EPB's target is 4.0 mg/l), with
additional pollution control measures upstream of the City. This is because
the treatment plant effluent that is discharged into the Huangpu River would
still contain about 200 of the source pollution. With the removal of the
City wastewater by an intercepting rewer to Changjiang for disposal, the
minimum DO level can be raised to 4.5 mg/l during low flow.



WVAIM 9ENUS01D   950  (MM t) - WATER DEIWD AD E UE_E PSUCT
195    1985    13      19o3   193    1990    161    193   1963   9s"4    1S5   15    197    189    189w    M0
Pbplet teen _aangnt Nerop. qlm.40   7000   70          71      7977   M1    797    7514   789    77            73    79855     0      3174   3M0    BOW    9
5 Pptetlen Sramth                              1.85    1.3S    1.8.    1.85    1.95    1.35    1.8    1*.9    1.85   1.85    1.3      1.85    1.8     1.5s   1.3o
A) WAtER liWLY OEAS
_AE Demo -  iLiolN TM- PR WAR
1e~~~~~~~~~~~~9                       gm  ee          gR Xas          go      we      m       V4      m       m      81      80e  B 40      a"      W
Other t(Somita ftndppw ee1)              19              It 13   13      1e      IS      t8      IS      18      18     14      14      14      1s      1a      1
ToraL WTER MDL By  1n"O    1071   10                            9        9  -    3    1MY7  1114   1144   116          15      I9m    1853     85    1450   15
mATPR Hin        OY NM r1                      15    133    11es5  116    34    1sm9           19   1          I4              Ism    1   14s3   13    1733   133
Indutrial OM four Production    l        18    914    Ol3    91t    9eo         0       94  80          eV             So1     9         5     SW7       S 
TSWTR U 5ERAID  am                     Ri93   eel1o   in5    1534    11s9   316   135   94                     1331    a3m ew   e      957    g3       707    77
NO CWITA W1   DE0    O (Litero  per 041tr  per Dsp)
Dassat                                   91    ISO       91      so      so      so      SO      67      9      log    105      1n     11n    1tt      119     In
Comrcilt _nrnd                           79      79      78      so      as      73      75      73      7       Be     94      3       OD      sr      a       u
Indutriat ODend                         US  ese         341 et318    II         33o    3o       Us      3        a       5     to      3e      1               294
Other lbcltet, Sdppew nlo)               5       5       5       5       5       5       a O       5             a       5      5  0            a 51            e
TOTAL         D 8V 91 4Y 4OS           4as      48      410    87       3       am      45      An      414    M0       43      4       4m      4n     Q       am0
AI01 P_UOW By an                        as    53        gm00    461     47   4S7        496    496    we    513        5e    539    554    5M          5n      51
Industriat wn Water PrSoducn            an7   a373   w8e         888  e8e    8          w       3       86      8       315    319    Si8    818    3t0    3t5
TUTAL S       ERl EIW IN a              98e8   SOB    35   8384    We             5  8 55  1            3"              a               Vt  8m         m       go
_XTAXTO OFf  Ri  lOM  8Y 81M
_ettc                                  R1.05    0.75    e.s   34.4%  38.5   39.5   3S.5           5   34.    24.5   3.3   34.8           7    34.5    4.5   WA.5
Comrcial Ome                           13.89   19.15   17.5   17.4   1.5   19.85   16.5S  16.5   1.1S   19.85   19.5   18.5   18.    19.5   100.1   10.DX
ndstrIat _Damamd                       508.35   60.01  58.5   55.35   W7.8    57.5   58.85   no.1   85.75   6.4   5.11   5.7 54.4 54JS    0        4    .n 1    OS.5
085 (beatel. Otandpipes, ate)          1.1n   1.1S    1.5    1.S    1.5    1.1    1.io n .1           1ea    1.15      t1.1n    1.15   1.1    1.8    1.AS    1i  s
TMAL WAER 811D 1Y OSC                 100.05  100.05  10.05  100.05  100.05  10.O t10.5  10.5  10.5  13O.0.5  100.51 10.0  10005  10.5*  100.   100.5
D AILY N          (EMD  Thouamad To;W Dsy)
Donnti                                  30      608  ee3        e67     uS4       o    ago    734    75#    795 8D             96  8W          W       333   101
mor1el D_at nd                          5       58      433     455    494    614    545 0113                     5     US      5              733    785    950
ndutriat t   amd                       1715    1e      1645   143    1553    1S0    1354   1707   1704   130    1on    1lD            3004   3075   3145   37
fth. 1baetl,  tidppe  eta)                s      so SS           84       so     84       4      S8      36       7       7      Js     so      40      41      41
TWA  AIE 8ss4 9y am                      e7   3s4 e73   313   1594    M0                 34   OM        18     OM      SW      83      WS73    3       M      411
5185 PU       31 By C 3o50                       73 8 s  414   3195    83    34S   85   371            803      37     Sell   435    443    5333   43         5M
Indrrt One WAer Pdt                    g0m   255    51         gm      goo    go1      gm    1gm9   35oeo       m      OM     go 5 4          1555   1571    1O5
TOALM. WAVEND SN   S                    60008    M     5094   o5s4   535    5"44   905   OM1             5     054   64    6_53   7049  7no            7415   783
Pop. ultih bsame or Septft Tanks       54.05   54.51  54.51  54.5   55.05  84.05   60.05    3.05   64A5   67.85   70.5X  73.5   73.51  79.5   SRI=   65.5
am of 1t_r simrags Q.n.fotlora-10O0    433    444    4a0    41M    4t9    519   5so             5       614    US       703    751     US      151      04    U
batematorn  (AsAmad *  US oer WAtr Productlio)
b Thoud TWAn4s                   5407  WS4       533     5115   55   54          549     G5    55   57W1    55   0t13    33             6M    9_74 _331
WI tt;it_- Thoend T        eeY          Gm        S     US      US      670    678    67        673             38g 4    on    95      9e      a34    667      700
Total Dry lthr Fl-Thus.Tena            S067    3138   S9       5783    G8M    602   GN    34    40               M    653      617   7065   730   7871    7581                    X
_MM  DZW253L (Tboessn Ton per Dty)
ProJust Intromptr -  _tag  I                                                                           1834   1843   18M       1J8     t 1871   1361   1800    183
Projet Introptor - 8ta_  It                                                                                                                    Iwo   1900    am 00
_ p      _Pewets re Systwe              198    140    152    154    178    l39    100    n1e            134    e3       393    950    e73    384    Qs    8o 0
buthe   ad batn nteroaptor s             77 a    77     O"      37    1915    1315   1315   1315   15    15   15    1s3                15    13n5    1315    1s 1Q
Diro"t D1     _  Intota           River   50   5131    4968   4nsI    4        4n6    47#3     467    8M       3M1    3        40A0    n7      13    1570   331
Teot #N                                606     91e8    597    5789    59       5M      6133   614   306   55    67             BW      70B   710D   7871    7583
WD Loa  (Exoltudslng waewater trw  Industries whiec have their own water euppty)
Tof  per Day                505.40   8.70  5RI.10  681.30  809.80  m88.10  949.S0 S8D.10  671.4    Bf0 6.50  585100 703.60  73.M70  788.0  754.40  771.10
t5-oat-a



-38 -                              Annex 3  Page 2
GRAPH I -WATER DEMAND IN SMR
i.--                                                      I OUST LT   CES
3.
2
1 -  _   _      _        ~~~~INOU'UL      ___                      _
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
GRAPH 2 - WASTEWATER DISPOSAL IN SMR
7--
O -       _ _ _              ~~~~~~~~DIR C 0--j  Ij  HL    I
z
3fi- _                                                           - -__-L  -Li
2-___    
.-IR T> IIRCE"S I           I    I    I    I    I    I
1985 1986 1982 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1994 1997 1998 1999 2000



- 39 -                          Annex 4
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimate of Wastewater Effluent Requirement at Sewer Outfall
Water Quality Ambient Allow.   Allow. Estimated   Load    Reduc-
Pollu-                  cone.    cone.    pollu-   load in   reduc-    tion
tant  Class*   Std.   pollu-  pollu-      tant    Stage I      tion       t
tant    tant      load              required
ill estu. outfall
(mg/l)  (mg/l)  (mg/l)      (t/d)    (t/d)
A        B  C-lO0(A-B) D-1.4E6xC   E        F-E-D       G
BOD5     II     3.0      1.10    190      266       272         6          2
OC       II     4.0      3.50     50       70       190       120         63
Phenols  II     0.01    0.0025    0.25      0.35      0.43      0.08      19
Cyanides I      0.01    0.01       0.20     0.28      0.069
As       I      0.01                                            0.005
Hg       II     0.0005  0.0004    0.0005   0.0007   0.000024
Cd       I      0.001   0.0001    0.09      0.126    0.007
Cr(VI)   I      0.01    0.0004    0.96      0.134    0.084
Pb       I      0.01    0.01       0.01     0.014    0.023      0.009    39
Cu       II     0.01    0.01       0.01     0.014    0.126      0.112    89
Ni        F     0.10                                            0.084
Zn        F     0.10                                            0.33
Oil      II     0.30    0.10      20       28        46        18        40
Sulphides F     0.20                                            1.2
Total P  II     0.10
Total N  II     1.0                                            48**
Note:    *  I or II is class in environmental quality standard for surface
water. F is standard for fisheries.
**  The load refers to ammonia nitrogen.



- 40 -                          Annex 5
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Proposed Industrial Wastewater Standards
for Discharge into Combined Sewer System
Pollutant         Standard
(mg/1)
Temperature       < 40 deg. C
pH                   6.5 - 9
SS                     500
Oil                     50
BOD5                   600
OC                     800
Sulphide                10
Phenol                   5
CN                       2
AS                     0.5
Hg                    0.02
Cd                     0.1
Cr(VI)                 0.5
Pb                       1
Cu                       1
Zn                       5
Ni                       2
NH3-n                   30
Organic P              0.5
Nitro-Benzene            5
Anilines                 3
F                       10



- 41-                      Annex 6
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Pro1ect Components
(a) About 11 km of trunk intercepting sewer of tunnel or pipe jacking
construction ranging in diameter from 3 m to 4 m;
(b)  about 24 km of trunk intercepting sewer of cut and cover
construction with twin 4.25 m x 3.5 m rectangular culverts;
(c)  about 32 km of link sewers of 0.45 m to 3 m in diameter of pipe-
jacking construction;
(d) about 2.6 km of 3.5 m diameter outfall tunnels with diffusers;
(e)  2 pumping stations, with installed capacities of 40 and 45 m3/sec,
respectively ;
(f)  1 screeening plant with a flow capacity of 1.4 million m3/day;
(g)  8 new pumping stations on link sewer system;
(h)  alterations to about 44 existing pumping stations on link sewer
system;
(i) vehicles and equipment for operation and environmental quality
monitoring;
(j)  detailed design and construction supervision;
(k)  organization, tariff, river basin management and sewer renovation
studier;
(l)  staff training.



CHINA                                                        Arnex 7
Table I
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT                                              page 1
Project Cost Estimate in RNB Yuan
1987                      1988                      1909                      1990
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
RNB min RIB min RNB min RNS mt  RIB d n RInNB mn RMI min RYB min RIB min RNB min RIG   n  RIGSB in
CIVIL WORKS
Site Clearance                  3.50    0.02    3.52   14.01    0.09   14.10   21.01    0.14   21.15   15.76    0.10   15.86
Tunnel Construction             1.85     1.65    3.51   16.66   14.89   31.55   28.29   25.11   53.40   21.07   17.64   38.71
Culvert Construction            8.85    6.59   15.44   43.40   30.73   74.12   69.09   48.27  117.37   43.21    30.23   73.44
Pumping Station Construction    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    2.68    6.58   10.85    7.43   18.28   12.16    8.31   20.47
Treatment Works Construction    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.64    1.29    1.95         1.91    3.87    2.61      2.55    5.16
Sewer Outfall Construction      0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    2.55    5.55    8.26    7.00   15.26   10.51    8.91    19.42
Link Sewer System Constr.       1.36    0.81    2.17    9.54    5.60   15.14   16.36    9.58   25.93   16.49    9.82   26.30
NECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIP
Link Sewer System P/S           0.23    0.00    0.23    0.92    0.00    0.92    1.37    0.00    1.37    1.37    0.00    1.37
Main and OutfalL P/S            0.00    0.00    0.00    2.44    10-55   12.99    4.36   17.71   22.07    5.00   21.29   26.30
Treatoent Works                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    2.39    2.82    1.22    6.77    7.99    1.01    5.57    6.58
OTHERS
Control & Comufication Equip   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73        1.05    1.78    1.83    2.64    4.46    2.19    3.16    5.35                   P
oper. & Enwir. Monitor Equip.   0.04    0.00    0.04    0.28    0.00    0.28    0.44    0.00    0.44          1.38    0.98    2.36
Eng., Contract., Constr. Sup.   4.92    0.94    5.86    8.18    1.91   10.09    6.26    1.91    8.18    5.32    1.78    7.10
Studies                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.41    0.56    0.96    0.82    1.15    1.97
Training                        0.00    0.25    0.25    0.00    0.48    0.48    0.69    0.82    1.51    1.37    1.03    2.41
Land Acquisition (inct.
housing for resettLement)     9.14    2.01    11.14   36.54    8.02   44.56   54.81   12.03   66.84   41.11    9.02   50.13
Power Supply Comn. Charges      0.00    0.00    0.00    1.91    2.14    4.05    4.46    5.00    9.46    4.46    5.00    9.46
BASE COST (1987 prices)    29.90   12.2?   42.17  142.60   83.73  226.32  231.66  146.88  378.54  185.82  126.57  312.38
Physical Contingency (10%)      2.99    1.23    4.22   14.26    8.37   22.63   23.17   14.69   37.85   18.58   12.66   31.24                       XD
..............................................................................................................
BASE COST + PHYS. COIT.    32.89   13.50   46.39  156.86   92.10  248.96  254.83  161.57  416.39  204.40  139.22  343.62
Price Contingency               0.53    0.22    0.75   10.20    5.99   16.18   34.20   21.69   55.89   42.50   28.95   71.46
..................................... ............................................ ......
TOTAL PROJECT COST         33.42   13.72   47.14  167.05   98.08  265.14  289.03  183.25  472.28  246.90  168.17  415.08
7_  _  _  _  ; === =  __S==a7m 7~-7=7           =-=-_-____-_-=--------_                      _    __            .    .   ,
Int. during Construction 4.5%           0.75    0.75               2.50    2.50             6.09    6.09              11.85   11.85
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED     33.42   14.47   47.89  167.05  100.59  267.64  289.03  189.35  478.38  246.90  180.03  426.93
Inflation Rate                   6.5%    3.0X              6.5%    1.0%              6.5%    1.0%              6.5%    1.0%
Escalation Factor               1.00    1.00              1.07    1.02              1.13    1.03              1.21    1.04



CHINA                                     Annex 7
Table 1
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT                          page 2
Project Cost Estimate in RMB Yuan
1991                     1992                          Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total        Local    Foreign    Total
RMB mtn RHI min RMB mIn RB mln kUB min RUB mIn   RNB mln   RUB mIn   RMB MIn
CIVIL WORKS
Site Clearance                 10.50    0.07   10.57    5.25    0.03    5.29         70.03      0."6      70.49
Tunnel Construction            11.61    9.24   20.85    4.03    3.47    7.50         83.51     72.01    155.52
Culvert Construction           8.66    6.10   14.76    0.00    0.00    0.00         173.21    121.91    295.13
Puwplng Station Construction    6.52    4.44   10.96    1.31    0.88    2.19         34.74     23.75      58.49
Treatment Works Construction    1.30    1.28    2.58    0.00    0.00    0.00          6.52      6.38      12.90
Sewer Outfalt Construction     6.75    5.73   12.48    1.50    1.27    2.77          30.02     25.46      55.48
Link Sewer System Constr.      10.82    6.50   17.32    2.51    1.47    3.98         57.08     33.77      90.85
NECHNAICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIP
Link Sewer System P/S          0.69    0.00    0.69    0.00    O.OC    0.00           4.58      0.00       4.58
Main and Outfall P/S           3.79   17.46   21.25    0.70    3.32    4.02          16.29     70.34      86.63
Treatment Works                0.22    1.19    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00           2.88     15.92      18.80
OTHERS
Control & Communication EquIp   1.83    2.64    4.46    0.73    1.05    1.78          7.30     10.54      17.84 K.
Oper. & Envir. Monitor Equip.   2.17    1.96    4.12    0.98    0.98    1.96          5.30      3.91       9.21
Eng., Contract., Constr. SWp.   2.96    1.63    4.59    0.65    0.78    1.43         28.29      8.95      37.25
Studies                        0.95    1.30    2.25    0.54    0.70    1.25           2.72      3.71       6.43
Training                        1.03    0.64    1.67    0.34    0.20    0.54          3.43      3.44       6.87
Lsnd Aoquisition (inc(.
housing for resettlemsnt)    27.41    6.02   33.42   13.70    3.01   16.71        182.71     40.11    222.82
Power S4ppty Cam. Charges       1.91    2.14    4.05    0.00    0.00    0.00         12.74     14.28      27.02
......................................................-- ;   .......................................... ................
BASE COST (1987 prices)    99.11   68.32  167.44   32.26   17.18   49.44        721.35    454.95   1176.29                                   >
Physical Contingency (10X)     9.91    6.83   16.74    3.23    1.72    4.94          72.13     45.49    117.63
BASE COST + PHYS. CONT.   109.03   75.15  184.18   35.48   18.90   54.38        793.48    500.44   1293.92
Price Contingency             29.92   20.62   50.54   11.77    6.27   18.04         129.12     83.73    212.86                                  '-3
............~.................................  ........................ ................................. 
TOTAL PROJECT COST        138.94   95.77  234.72   47.25   25.17   72.42        922.61    584.18   1506.78                                  '-
int. during Construction 4.5%          17.45   17.45             22.87   22.87                 61.52      61.52
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED    138.94  113.22  252.16   47.25   48.04   95.29        922.61    645.70   1568.30
Inflation Rate                  4.5%    3.5X              4.5%    3.5%
Escalation Factor               1.27    1.06             1.33    1.10



CHINA                                                     Annex 7
Table 2
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT                                           Page 1
Project Cost Estimate in US Dollar
1987                     1988                    1989                     1990
Local  Foreign  Totat   LocaL  Foreign  Totat   Locat  Foreign  Totat   Local  Foreign  Totat
USS Ln USSM tn US  in USS mn USSmn  Smtn USSM mtn USS mIn USS mtn USS mtn USS tn USS min
CIVIL WRIKS
sfte Clearance                0.93    0.01    0.93    3.71    0.02    3.74    5.57    0.04    5.61    4.18    0.03    4.20
Tumet Construction            0.49    0.4"    0.93    4.42    3.95    8.37    7.50    6.66   14.16    5.58    4.68   10.26
Culvert Comtruction           2.35    1.75    4.09   11.51    8.15   19.65   18.32   12.80   31.11    11.45    8.01   19.47
Puping Station Construction    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.03    0.71    1.74    2.88    1.97    4.85    3.22    2.20    5.43
Treatment Works Comtructfch    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    0.17    0.34    0.52    0.51    1.03    0.69    0.68    1.37
Sewer Outfal Cotruction       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.68    1.47    2.19    1.86    4.04    2.79    2.36    5.1S
Link Sewer Systm Constr.      0.36    0.21    0.58    2.53    1.48    4.01    4.34    2.54    6.87    4.37    2.60    6.97
NECANMICAL AND ELECTRICAL EQUIP
Link Sewer syste P/S          0.06    0.00    0.06    0.24    0.00    0.24    0.36    0.00    0.36    0.36    0.00    0.36
Main an Outfall P/S           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    2.80    3.44    1.16    4.69    5.85    1.33    5.65    6.97
Treatment Works               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.63    0.75    0.32    1.79    212    0.27    1.48    1.74
Control & Co4nication Equip   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.28    0.47    0.48    0.70    1.18    0.58    0.84    1.42
Oper. & Envir. Monitor Equip.   0.01    0.00    0.01    0.08    0.00    0.08    0.12    0.00    0.12    0.37    0.26    0.63
Eng., Contract., Cwnwtr. Sup.   1.31    0.25    1.55    2.17    0.50    2.67    1.66    0.50    2.17    1.41    0.47    1.88
Studies                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.15    0.26    0.22    0.31    0.53
Trrinfng                      0.00    0.07    0.07    0.00    0.13    0.13    0.18    0.22    0.40    0.36    0.27    0.64
Land Afoquisition (incl.
homing for resettlement)    2.42    0.53    2.95    9.69    2.13   11.81   14.53    3.19   17.72   10.90    2.39   13.29
Power Supply Corn. Chares     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.57    1.07    1.18    1.32    2.51    1.18    1.32    2.51
BASE COST (1987 prices)   7.93    3.25   11.18   37.80   22.19   60.00   61.41   38.94  100.35   49.26   33.55   82.81
0
P"ysical Contingency (10%)    0.79    0.33    1.12    3.78    2.22    6.00    6.14    3.89   10.04    4.93    3.36    8.28                  X
BASE COST . PHYS. CONT.   8.72    3.58   12.30   41.58   24.41   66.00   67.s6   42.83  110.39   54.19   36.91   91.10
Prfce Contingency             0.07    0.03    0.09    0.83    0.49    1.32    2.04    1.29    3.33    2.19    1.49    3.69
TOTAL PROJECT COST        8.78    3.60   12.39   42.42   24.90   67.32   69.60   44.12  113.72   56.38   38.40   94.79                   '
Int. during Construction 4.5S         0.20    0.20              0.68    0.68             1.64    1.64            3.20    3.20
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED    8.78    3.81   12.59   42.42   25.58   67.99   69.60   45.77  115.36   56.38   41.60   97.98
Inflatfin Rate                 6.5%    3.0%             6.5X    1.0O             6.5%    1.0%             6.5%    1.0%
EscaLation Factor             1.00    1.00             1.07    1.02             1.13    1.03             1.21    1.04



CNHIN                                  Annex 7
Tabte 2
SHUMGHAI SEIERAGH PROJECT                       Page 2
Project Cost Estimete in US Dollars
1991                    1992                        Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Forel9n  Totat     Local    Foreign    Totat
USS tn USS stn US stn USS stn U tSS stn USS sin   USS stn       d stn   USS *tn
..,................................  .......................   .................................
CIVIL UGES
Site Clearance                2.78    0.02    2.80    1.39    0.01    1.40      18.56      0.12     18.69
Twtl Construction            3.08    2.45    S.53    1.07    0.92    1.99       22.14     19.09     41.23
Cutvert Construction          2.30    1.62    3.91    0.00    0.00    0.00      45.92     32.32     78.24
Pumping Statfon Construction    1.73    1.18    2.91    0.3S    0.23    O.S8     9.21      6.30     15.50
Treatment wikcs Construction    0.35    0.34    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.73      1.69      3.42
Sewer Outfatl Construction    1.79    1.52    3.31    0.40    0.34    0.74       7.96      6.7S     14.71
Link Sewer Systm Constr.      2.87    1.72    4.59    0.67    0.39    1.06      15.13      8.95     24.08
IECHAICAL MD ELECTRICAL EQUIP
Link Sewer Sy8t_ P/S         0.18    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00        1.21      0.00      1.21
Main and Outfatl P/S          1.00    4.63    5.63    0.19    0.88    1.07       4.32     18.65     22.96
Treatment Works               0.06    0.32    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.76      4.22      4.98
OTNERS
Control & Commication Equip   0.48    0.70    1.18    0.19    0.28    0.47       1.94      2.79      4.73
Oper. & lwir.  onitor Equdp.   O.S7    0.52    1.09    0.26    0.26    O.S2      1.40      1.0f      2.44
Erg., Contract., Constr. Sup.   0.78    0.43    1.21    0.17    0.21    0.36     7.50      2.36      9.87
Studies                      0.25    0.35    0.60    0.14    0.19    0.33        0.72      1.00      1.72
Training                     0.27    0.17    0.44    0.09    0.05    0.14        0.91      0.90      1.81
Land Acquisition (Cnc.
houing for resttlement      7.27    1.S9    8.86    3.63    0.80    4.43      48.4      10.63     S9.07
Powr Suppty Coan. Chwaes     O.S1    0.57    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00        3.38      3.79      7.16
BASE COST (1987 prices)    26.28   18.11   44.39    8.55    4.56   13.11   191.23    120.61    311.84
Physcat Contfngency (10K)    2.63    1.81    4.44    0.86    0.46    1.31       19.12     12.06     31.18
................19...3..........8.3...... .....4.1---.-.-.-.--------- .---------------.-------------
BA^SE COSt + PNlYS. ClTl.   289   99      88       .1     S.O1   U.42      210.3S    132.67    343.02 
Prfee Contingency             1.8S    1.27    3.12    0.9f    OMS    1.4S        7.93      5.08     13.01 
............................. .;;.................................................  .................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST       30.75   21.20   51.95   10.36    5.52   1S.88     218.28    137.75    356.04
Int. dring Construction 4.SX          4.70    4.70            6.17    6.17       0.00     16.58     16.58
.................................................... ..   ...................................... .,
TOTAL FINCING REWIRED      30.7S   2S.90   56.65   10.36   11.68   22.04     218.28    154.33    372.62
Inflation Rate                4.5    3.5X             4.5X    3.5X
Escalation Factor             1.27    1.06            1.33    1.10



- 46 -                        Annex 8
CHINA
Shanghai Sewerage Proiect
Prolect Cost Estimate by Contracts
Classifi-            Total
Contract Packages                      cation            US$ mln
Supply Contracts
1. Cement Supply No.1                     ICB               9.56
2. Cement Supply No.2                     ICB               9.56
3. Steel Supply No.1                      ICB              18.49
4. Steel Supply No.2                      ICB               18.49
Civil Works Contacts
5. Puxi Culvert No.1                      ICB              19.36
6. Puxi Culvert No.2                     ICB               19.72
7. Putong Culvert                        ICB               26.05
8. OutfaIl Tunnel                        ICB               11.27
9. Huangpu Tunnel                        ICB                8.22
10. 400W mm Tunnel                       ICB                8.69
11. 3500 mm Tunnel                        ICB               6.82
12. 3000 mm Tunnel                       ICB                5.17
13. Peng Yue Pu P/S Construction         ICB               10.09
14. Outfall P/S Construction             ICB               11.27
15. Pretreatment Construction            ICB                2.58
16. Link Sewers (450-2460 mm dia.)       LCB                7.06
(3 contracts at different locations)
17. Link Sewers (800-2400 mm dia.)       LCB                6.58
(3 contracts at different locations)
18. Link Sewers (800-2400 mm dia.)       LCB                6.58
(3 contracts at different locations)
19. Link Sewers (600-1400 mm dia.)       LCB                3.31
(2 contracts at different locations)
20. New Link P/S (10 No.) Construc.      LCB                0.65
Kech. & Elect. Contracts
21. Pen  Yue Pu P/S N & E                 ICB              16.82
22. Outfall P/S M & E                     ICB               7.19
23. Pretreatment M & E                   ICB                8.93
24. Central Control Equipment            ICB                5.61
25. Alternation to ex. P/S               LCB                1.46
26. New Link P/S (10 No.) N & E          LCB                1.73
Other Equipment Contracts
27. Operation & Maintenance Equipment   ICB                 0.64
28. Sewerage Monitoring Equipment         ICB               1.75
Other Works
Eng.  Contract., Constr. Sup.                            12.68
Studies                                                   2.21
Training                                                  2.33
Land Acquisition (incl.
housing for resettlement)                              75.87
Power Supply Conn. Charges                                9.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        355.94



CHINA                                                            Anex 9
SHNAGHAI SEWAE PROJECT
Project lmpLementetion Sbedutle
Contract                            Clessif f-        Year
cation       1986    1987          1988       1989            1990       1991       1992
SOND JFMAKJJASOMD JFMAMJJASWN0 JFMANJJASOND JFMAMJJASOUD JFNAJJASoND JFNANJJASONO
1. Cement Supply No.1              ICB           0D- R=T==A=-MuS  ===
2. Cement Spply No.2               ICB                                      Ps uRsuT=cA_  S-
3. Steel Supp p   No.1              Ice          Dun R-=Td=uA==S ====
4. Steel Suppty Ao.2               ICB                                      on uRuT=Ain41 S- 5
5. Link Pipe Supply                ICB               D===R==T--A       F-US          _,
6. Puxi Cutvert No.1                Ic8                      D tuinTA _   5                              '               CON
7. Puxi Culvert No.2                Ice                      D-  R==T==WA== N                                _   20cm
8. Putong Culvert                  ice                       D-=c RT==T=A==s N"-4 Ce __2
9. Outfall Tumel                    ICB i            0-      zTaA =e==4n===                                              CON
10. Nuawgpu Tunaml                  ICB              D-=w-TuA u_=                    _            _C          _          COU
11. 400 m  Tu  tel                  ICB         D=R  T 21-A-        C                                                    C O N
12. 3500 m Tunwel                  ICB                 0== ==T   2A == ==Cg                        _ _-             -   COm
13. 3000 m  Tunmnel                 iC                 D-As-s  C==- 2in nC           _            _            _         CON
14. Peng Yue Pu P/S Construction    ICB                 D0=uR-mT  -AE==uiC           _                                   C_o
1S. Outfatl P/S Construction       tCB                   D2ssR=3T  -A- -C            __                -CON
16. Pretreatment Construction       ICB                    0nRs iTAuin4                    ==_    _== =- T-= _ CCO
17. Link Sewers (450-2460 in die.) LCB                         on inuTi=A==N_=                      =                    CON
18. Link Sewers (800-2400 am dia.)  LCB                        Du -R=T=A==M= =C-==                                       CON
19. Link Sewers (800-2400 am dia.)  LCB                        O=  4RT=AiNv =Cu u                       -                Cc"
20. Link Sewers (600-1400 mm dia.) LCB                         D= =R-T=A=a zC=-            _       5
21. New Link P/S (10 No.) Construc. LCe                        Oc 0==R=T=As4N= C==                                       COK
22. Peng Yue Pu P/S li & E          ice                  DUUR-T    A           =F==      r      sls _                    CON
23. Outfall P/S N & E               IC8                  9=-R-T =A===P=   u=s                                            CON
24. Pretreatment N & E              ICe                   D-R  =T        3  A P   -F--    S5' l                          CON
25. CentraL Control Equipment       ice                             D==R-T= =Auz==P=-          F         S5              -0-  C
26. Alternation to ex. P/S          LCB                       D0  x==RT=A=P=   =F#z1-                                    CON
27. New Link P/S (10 No.) N & E     LCD                        Du ==R==T=A=p.        F-I    _                            CON
28. Operation & Maintenance Equi.  ICB                            I 0==R==TU  =A* FA=P       -.  S3 mIS CON
29. Sewerage Nonitoring Equi.       ICe                D0==R=T== =A====S=====
ResettLement Schedule (People to be resettLed)        198?         1988         1989        1990                   TOTAL
6. Puxf Culvert No.1                                                   875          750           55                    1680
7. Puxi Culvert No.2                                                   775          1250        1188                    3213
1t. 4000 me Tunnel                                                     213                                               213
12. 3500 m  Tunmel                                                     975                                               975
13. 3500 im Tumel                                                      125          125                                  250
14. Peng Yue Pu P/S                                                    938                                               938
17. Link Sewers (450-2460 am dia.)                                     843          846                                 1689
18. Link Sewers (800-2400 m dia.)                                                  1013         1025                    2038
19. Link Sewers (800-2400 mm dia.)                                                 1320         2640                    3960
20. Lfnk Sewres (600-1400 - dia.)                                                    188                                 188
............ .......4 ... ...,;i.. .......;;.....             .........
TOTAL                    4744         5492         4908                   15144 
Note: De Contract document Ru Review by SN & Dank     T= Tender        A= Anatysis and contract award      Hu Ncbitisation  S= Site delivery             '0
P= Prepare drawings  F- Factory manufacturing   1= Installation  Cm Construction                     CON= Comaission



- 48 -                          Annex 10
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE 1]
(US$ Million)
Bank     Year and  -- DISBURSEMENTS --    DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Fiscal   Semester
Year     Ending   Semester  Cumulative   China's       Project's
(General)
1988 1] 31-Dec-87       9         9         0.0%         6.2%
30-Jun-88      3         12        4.0%          8.3%
1988    31-Dec-88       9        21        12.0%        14.5%
30-Jun-89     12         33       23.0%         22.8%
1990    31-Dec-89      19        52        37.0%        35.9%
30-Jun-90     19         71       50.0%         49.0%
1991    31-Dec-90      19        90        63.0%        62.0%
30-Jun-91     14        104       73.0%         71.7%
1992    31-Dec-91      15       119        82.0%        82.1%
30-Jun-92     12        131       90.0%         90.3%
1993    31-Dec-92       8       139        96.0%        95.9%
30-Jun-93      6        145      100.0%        100.0%
1 3 Includes the initial disbursement of $9 million for the
Special Account.



-49-            Annex 11
Q~~~~~~
II
'ii  hi 1XL1
11



Annex 12
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Organization of Shanghai Sewerage Caopany
Sureau of
Municipal
Engineering
Administration
ssc
Board
GeneraL                                Intel
anger                                    udit
SSC
O   M h           latetrfals          Ptaming           Tedhnicat 6            lun                         Finae                    Ackinistration
Division           g     ntDesign and                    Scientific          Resources &                   Divisfon                      & Legal
Di vision           Proj ects          Setvevies          Training                                                   Services
_  Division        Division           Division                                                   Divisfon
major P/S          Central             Planning 6         Trade Waste         Training           Asset Control       Fin. Planning       Legal Services
Minor P/S & Inter-    Purchasing         Investigation       Control         Hkan Resource       Treasury               & Budgeting     Admin. Services
cepting Systems  Stores Control      Design Services    Lab. Services          Plan            Accountfng          Cap. Expand. Plan  Public Relations
Sewage Treatment                       Projects           Technical &         Personnel Admin.   General Ledger      Budget Control     Library
works                                                    Scientific Ser.  Salary Akin.        Bilting             Perforaunce        Office Services
Sewrage Metwork                                                               Cond. of Service   Accounts Rec.          Monitoring      Security
& Outfalls                                                                 Safety & Weifare   Purchases           Tariff nalysis
Eng. Services                                                                                    Accounts Pay.       Pricing
Adfn. Support                                                                                    Payroll             aNwgment Info.
System



- 51 -             Annex 13  page 1 of 2
CHINA
Shanghai Sewerage Project
Resettlement Plan
The Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC) has
prepared the preliminary design for the project, which includes land
acquisition and resettlement. This has been approved by the Shanghai
Municipality (SM). The next step would be for SSPCC to conduct a full
detailed survey of the exact area required by each contract and a head count
of the population to be resettled. The time for this work will be about 2
months. The detailed survey will be submitted to SM for approval, after
which the population in the affected areas will be frozen and put under
police surveillance to avoid any further in-migration. A notice to this
effect would be published.
About 18 months prior to the actual need to use the land, the
SSPCC will prepare a detailed plan for resettlement of the population with
information provided by relevant municipality bureaus on land available for
housing construction and housing units that can be supplied from housing
enterprises. The time required for this process will be about 1 month. The
housing plan would estimate the number of housing units required. If all the
necessary housing units can be provided by housing enterprises, they would
be purchased. The time for arranging and delivery of the housing units will
then be from 6 to 12 months, depending on the amount of housing units in
stock. If all or some of the necessary housing units are not available,
they should be designed and constructed under the project. The time
required for this process is dependent upon the work scale, and estimated to
be slightly longer than purchasing (about 15 months). Therefore this would
be on the critical path for the resettlement plan.
With the housing and resettlement plan determined, the SSPCC will
contact local district officials to discuss implementation details of the
plan. The time required for this would be about 0.5-1 month. The actual
work of arranging relocation of the residents would be done by the local
district officials. They will negotiate with residents and decide when the
relocation would take place. This process would usually run over a period
of 8-9 months, before residents in an area are completely moved. The
residents would be paid RMB 100-120 per person (the amount may iiminish, if
moving is not prompt) to encourage moving. When all the residents have
moved out, the area will be demolished, a process which takes about one
month. The total time required for resettling occupants in an area is thus
estimated to be 13-15 months.
The first contract of the project is for a 2.1 km long tunnel with
a diameter of 4 m. Since the construction is scheduled to start in March
1988, the detailed resettlement plan for this contract should be started in
November 1986. The process has already commenced. Detailed resettlement
plans for other contracts would be started according to the implementation
schedule (see Annex 9).



- 52-             Annex 13  page 2 of 2
CHINA
Shanghai Severage Project
Resettlement Plan
Project Preli-
m   ry DesiRn
(completed)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Approval of
Dosign b SM
(compleNed)
I
Full Survey
of Areas
(2 months)
I                            I 
Determination                  sm Approval &
of HOUs. Ran.                  Presidng Offi-
(1 month}                   cial Popul.
Request to         Contact local                  Decis ion to
Purchase H.U.          Officials                      Construct
(1 month)          (0.5-1 month)                  Housing Units
Delivery of         Negotiations         Design of        Land Alloc-
Housing Units,      v. Residents        Housing Units       catlon
(2-11 months)       (8-9 months)         (2 months)       (4 months)
Construct
1Ho1using units
(8-10 toutba)
I oving to
Housing Units
(0.5-1 month)
I Demolition
of Area
(1 month)
The path from Full Survey to Demolition is estimated to be 13-15 months.



- 53 -          Annex 14  Page 1 of 4
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Inflation
1.      Project cost tables assume that foreign price increases would be 3%
in 1987, 1% p.a. between 1988 and 1990, and 3% thereafter. Local inflation
is assumed at about 6.5% p.a. between 1987 and 1990, and about 4.5% p.a.
thereafter. The exchange rate is assumed to be adjusted to maintain
"purchasing power parity." The exchange rate for end-1986 is assumed at
Y 3.71 per US dollar.
Balance Statements for Present Sewerage Services
2.       During project preparation, a balance statement was prepared for
SM's sewerage services, which gives a basis for the initial balance for the
SSC. This balance provides only a rough approximation, since present
accounting is concerned primarily with cash budgetary results; there is no
proper inventory, depreciation and valuation of fixed assets, and the data
and responsibilities for sewerage services are shared between two different
units (MDAD and MEAD). Fixed assets, which at present are 96% of the total
assets would be revaluated during project implementation (para. 19), and
would represent only about one third of the fixed assets after the project
completion. There are no debts to be assumed by SSC. Cash represents
budget savings on MDAD and MEAD allocations, which are normally kept by the
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China's Shanghai branch.
Balance Statement for Shanehai's Sewerage Services
As of December 31, 1983    1984     1985
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Fixed Assets in Operation        647.58  649.93   652.22
Less: Accumulated Depreciation   361.94  378.16   394.44
Net Fixed Assets                 285.64  271.77   257.78
Current Assets
Cash and Deposits                  4.99    3.85      3.79
Inventories                        1.21    1.82      3.80
Advance Payments for Materials     2.01    2.54      3.22
Total Current Assets               8.21    8.22    10.81
Total Assets                     293.85  279.98   268.59
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
SN's Equity and Reserves         293.35  279.04   265.81
Payables                           0.50    0.94      2.78
Total Equity and Liabilities     293.85  279.98   268.59



- 54 -          Annex 14  Page 2 of 4
Financial Proiections
3.     SSC's investment programs and financial projections were developed
by the appraisal team using computer programs tailored to SSC's programs and
financial condition. The main financial statements (Table 1 - Income, Table
2 - Flow of Funds, Table 3 - Balance, Table 4 - Financial Plan, and Table 5
- Monitoring Indicators) are presented in Annex 14. Additional tables,
available in the project file, provide details of all the assumptions and
intermediate results regarding water demand and sewerage services, fixed
assets, debt analysis, operational expenses, working capital and sewerage
tariffs. Therefore only the main assumptions are explained below. Although
present accounting is on a cash basis, proper accrual accounting, in
accordance with Chinese standards for public enterprises, would be started
after the establishment of SSC.
Water Demand
4.       Detailed projections were prepared for water demand by categories
(domestic, commercial, industrial and others). After the completion of the
tariff study all water consumers are expected to pay sewerage charges.
Historical demand data for 1985 and SMWC's forecasts were provided by SMWC
and used by the appraisal mission to forecast the demand for water and the
wastewater flow until the year 2000 (Annex 3). A major uncertainty is the
population growth, which in the past was kept very low by administrative
controls. However, migration rates are higher at present, and it is
estimated that several hundred thousand persons are living in the city in a
"transitory" status. Since no clear estimates are available, only an
estimated half million of persons without resident status were included in
the tables. The population of SMR includes Shanghai City and the
surrounding urban districts, which receive water from SWSC and whose
sewerage services would be under SSC responsibility. The estimated
population of 7 million persons is projected to increase at about 1.3% p.a.
Since about 95% of the population is reported served, the main reasons for
increases in water demand of about 3-4% p.a. are the industrial growth, the
increase in lncome of the population and the progressive increase in flush
toilets brought about by housing renovation, new housing construction and
the facilities for new sewerage connections resulting from the project.    A
price elasticity of 0.20 is assumed for the water demand, in particular for
the introduction of the sewerage tariff and the expected tariff increase in
1993. The reduction of 20% in water demand following the doubling of water
charges due to the introduction of the proposed sewerage tariff is expected
to be distributed during two years (1987-88).
Income Statement
5.       Sewerage Revenues. Sewerage charges would be based on 90% of the
water demand. Industrial and commercial charges of Y 0.12 per ton are
expected to start in 1987, and domestic charges of Y 0.03 per ton are
assumed to start in 1989. Sewerage revenues would cover operating and
maintenance expenses, and the higher of either depreciation or debt service.
Debt service would include the principal payments and the total interest
(capitalized or operational). The financial projections (Annex 14) show the
financial position of SSC upon achieving these financial targets. Tariff
increases of about 35% would be needed to cover the increase 4n operating
expenses and debt service after project completion. These charges are



55 -           Annex 14  Page 3 of 4
equivalent to maintaining the proposed 1987 tariffs in real prices.
Although a system of gradual tariff increases would be preferable, at the
moment there is no mechanism for frequent reviews of charges for public
services. Moreover SSC is expected to have significant cash surpluses until
1993.
6.       SSC would also be responsible for making the sewerage connections,
which would be charged at cost to the beneficiaries, and therefore do not
affect SSC's financial results.
7.        Personnel.  The number of staff to be transferred to SSC is
assumed to be 4,365. Staff increases of about 4% would be required in 1987
to assume the management, financial and accounting responsibilities of the
new company. Increases in efficiency are expected to reduce further
increases in the number of staff to ohly 11% even after project completion.
This should reduce the number of staff per thousand connections from 10.0 in
1987 to 7.7 by 1994. Unit salaries are low, averaging some Y 130 ($35) per
month, but living expenses are also very low. Unit salaries are assumed to
increase by about 2% p.a. in real terms. Enterprises now provide staff
bonuses to promote efficiency, and incur welfare expenses (including housing
and retirement benefits). Generally, these benefits are equivalent to about
6% of the net income. However, this is less applicable for public
enterprises, where the net income may have wide fluctuations, and depend
more on tariff rather than efficiency increases.   Bonuses and welfare
expenses are assumed at 20% of personnel expenses, including 11.5% for a
pension fund which was recently established in Beijing and soon to be
extended to other cities.
8.        Power. Power expenses are based on the estimated flow of sewage
to be pumped by SSC. Power tariffs are expected to increase 10% in 1987
and 1989, and with inflation after 1991. SSC is not expected to pay demand
charges, but will instead pay the industrial rate for power (Y 0.10 per Kwh
in 1986).
9.       Materials and Maintenance.  Materials and maintenance expenses,
excluding labor, are high, reaching 51% of operating expenses in 1985
and 2.2% of the revalued fixed assets. This is because the existing system
is old, and because some replacement costs are included in these expenses.
Materials and maintenance expenses are assumed to increase with inflation
until the new system enters into operation, when an increase of about 20% in
real terms is assumed between 1993 and 1994. These expenses would represent
1% of the gross fixed assets in 1993.
10.       Other Expenses. Administrative expenses are estimated as 8.5% of
personnel expenses. Bad debts are very small, and are estimated at 0.2% of
revenues.
11.       Taxes.  Starting in 1988, SSC would pay sales taxes at 3% of the
sewerage revenues. Shanghai Municipality has decided to exempt SSC from
income and adjustment taxes which may reach 90% of the net income after
depreciation and interest (including the total interest paid, capitalized or
operational).
12.      Appropriation of Net Income: all net income, after the
appropriations for bonuses and staff welfare (which are included in the



-56 -            Annex 14  Page 4 of 4
operating expenses), would be available for investments and payment of debt
service. For simplicity this is presented as cash.
13.       Depreciation expenses assume a straight-line depreciation on the
average gross fixed assets in operation, averaging 2.5% p.a. for the
projected period.
Sources and Applications of Funds
15.       Borrowing.  The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan and IDA credit
would be onlent to SM, to be repaid in 20 years, including 5 year grace, at
4.5% interest. SM would bear the foreign exchange risk. The equivalent of
Bank/IDA disbursements in local currency would be repaid by SSC to SM, in 15
years, after a 5 year grace period, and have an interest rate of 4.5%.
Similar loans are assumed to finance about 40% of the second sewerage stage,
starting in 1992.
16.       SM Contributions.  SCC would pay the interest during construction.
The remaining part of the project cost not financed by IBRD/IDA would be
contributed by SM, as well as any unlikely subsidies which may be needed for
operation.
17.       Investments.  SSC's investments include the proposed project and
some minor works (estimated at about Y 2.5 million per year). The second
stage of the sewerage project is assumed to start in 1992. Cash surpluses
between 1987 and 1992 are expected to be used to rehabilitate and expand the
sewerage network and to promote sewerage connections. Cash deposits in
banks are assumed to earn interest of about 3% p.a. A policy on the use of
cash surpluses would be put in effect after SSC has been established and is
functional.
Balance Statement
18.       Accounts Receivable.  Accounts receivable are assumed at about one
month of revenues. Prompt payment by other government corporations is
ensured by automatic transfers of funds between the respective bank
accounts.
19.       Fixed Assets.  Fixed assets are based on a replacement cost
estimated by SMEDI. Although the total amount seems underestimated, it does
not affect the financial projections, since many assets are more than 30
years old. A detailed valuation and inventory of fixed assets would be
undertaken under the project (para. 6.02). Given the low levels of
inflation and lack of proper legislation for assets revaluation, fixed
assets would not be revalued after they are included in the accounting
records.
20.       Inventories are assumed at the historical level of about 27% of
annual expenses for materials and maintenance.
21.       Advances are projected to continue at their current level.
22.       Accounts Payable are projected at about their current level of 25%
of expenses for materials and maintenance.



- 57
Annex 15 page 1 of 5
SIANGHA SEWERAGE COMPANY
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
TABLE 1                                           INCOME STATEMEtT  1J                                 Y Million
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Population Shanghi  etbrop. Resios-000   7000    7091    71893   7277    7371    7467    7564    7662    7762    7863
X Population with Water Connections      95.0X   95.0   95.01   95.02   95.5X   96.0X   96.52   97.0X   97.52   98.0S
Water Connections (End of Year)-1000      772     781     792     811      835     859     884     909     935     962
Vo1ume Water Sold-Lters/PersonIDae        AS3     436     410    S38       383     391     401     409     414     423
Water Sold-MiliLon Tone                  1050    1071    1022     956      983    1023    1067    1114    1144    1191
X Population wlth Swrage Conneotios       54X     542     54X     54X      561     S8X     60X     622     64X     672
End of Year Sewerage Coneetions-1004      439     444     450     461      489     519     549     581     614     658
Domestic Sovage Blilod-Hillion Ton                      204.4  209.7  208.2  216.2  226.8  238.5  247.0  259.1
Cmercial & 2nd. Sewage Billed-1ilL.ToS                  704.2  639.8  666.1  693.6  722.3   752.3  770.5  800.6
Total Sewage Billed- Mlillon Ton                        908.7  849.5  874.3  909.8  949.1  990.8  1017.5  1059.7
Domeasti Tariff per Volum  BSilled-VITon                0.000   0.000   0.030   0.030   0.030   0.030   0.040   0.043
Industrial & Comereial Tariff -Y/Ton                    0.120   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.161   0.173
Average Tariff per Volum  Blled Mlon                    0.093   0.090   0.099   0.099   0.098   0.098   0.132   0.141
OPERATIONAL RUVENIU
Sewrage Revenues - Y Million                            84.51   76.77   86.18   89.72   93.48   97.43  134.21  149.35
Sewerage Connection Charges - Y Millon                   0.00    0.86    2.41    2.67    2.95    3.23    3.49    4.88
OPERATIC NREVENUS                                       84.51   77.63   88.59   92.39   96.43  100.66  137.70  154.23
Salaries & Wages                         7.01    6.77    7.57    8.22    8.93    9.70   10.54   11.80   13.21   14.08
Power                                    6.12    6.11    6.43    6.02    6.81    7.09    7.80    8.50   16.26   17.44
Materials and Supplies                   2.49    2.50    2.66    2.84    3.05    3.25    3.43    3.58    4.12    4.73
Maintenance                             11.66   11.00   11.72   12.48   13.29   14.15   14.93   15.60   17.93   20.61
Adminastration                           0.60    0.5?    0.64    0.70    0.76    0.82    0.90    1.00    1.12    1.20
Sewerage Connections Expenses            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.86    2.41    2.67    2.95    3.23    3.49    4.88
Staff Bonus & Welfare XpIbns             0.00    0.00    1.29    1.20    1.36    1.42    1.56    1.70    3.25    3.49
Bad Debts                                0.00    0.00    0.17    0.16    0.18    0.18    0.19    0.20    0.27    0.29
Sales Tax                                0.00    0.00    0.00    2.33    2.66    2.77    2.89    3.02    4.13    4.63
OPERATING EXKPESES                      27.88   26.97   30.48   34.80   39.45   42.05   45.19   48.64   63.79   71.34
INCOME  EOW DEPRCIATION                -27.88  -26.97   54.03   42.83   49.14   50.33   51.24   52.02   73.91   82.89
Depreciation                            16.31   16.33   16.38   16.44   16.50   16.56   16.63   35.71   54.79   54.87
OPETING INCOME                         -44.19  -43.S0   37.65   26.39   32.65   33.77   34.61   16.31   19.12   28.02
Other No-Operatioal Incom  (not)         0.00    0.00    0.00    1.46    2.66    3.91    5.06    6.05    7.04    5.65
Operational Interest Expen*s             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   26.63   25.37
Amortisation Deferred Chares             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
AmortLsatLon Debt Revaluation Losses     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
NET INCOME                             -44.19  -43.30   37.65   27.86   35.30   37.69   39.67   22.36   -0.47    8.30
Incre"a  in Sewage Billed                                        -6.52    2.92    4.1S    4.3X    4.42    2.72    4.1X
Dlrect Expenses per Volum Billed (RIOJTon)               0.03    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.06    0.07
Increaso in Operating Revenues                                   -8.12   14.1S    4.32    4.42    4.42   36.82   12.02
working Ratio                                             36.12   44.82   44.5X   45.5X   46.92   48.32   46.SX   46.32
Operating Ratio                                          55.4X   66.02   63.22   63.4X   64.1X   83.8X   86.12   81.82
Net In     for Yar on Equity                             12.4X   5.12    3.8X    3.1X   2.92    1.6X    O.OX    0.62
Average Asset's Rate Base                                 236      222     208     194     180     917    1635    1584
Rate of Return on Net Flied Assets                        15.92   11.92   15.72   17.42   19.2X    1.8X    1.21    1.8X
11   Due to routding, the lat diglit in totals may appear different than the sum of columns.
21-Oct-86



- 58 -
Annex 15 page 2 of 5
SHANCB U SEWERAGB COHWANY
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
TABLE 2                                SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                          Y Million
----_--------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---------------------------------------
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
--------------------------------_--------_-------------------------__--------__---------------------------------------
SOURCES OP FUNDSt
Incom Before Depreciation            -27.88 -26.97  54.03  42.83  49.14  50.33  51.24  52.02  73.91  A2.89
Other Non-Operational Income (net)     0.00   0.00   0.00   1.46   2.66   3.91   5.06   6.05   7.04   5.65
Contributions for Operatlon           27.88  28.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
________________________________________________________________________________
INTERNAL SOURCES oF FUND8              0.00   1.23  54.03  44.29  51.80  54.25  56.30  58.07  80.95  88.54
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION   2.30   2.00  12.43 217.80  343.47  248.59 103.66   0.00   0.00   0.00
BORROWING,
Onlending SBRD Loan & IDA Credit       0.00   0.00  33.96  47.29 128.81  166.49 131.06  91.26  27.64   0.00
Loans Stage II Project                 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  35.00 175.00 280.00
TOTAL BOMWINC                          0.00   0.00  33.96  47.29 128.81  166.49 11.06 126.26 202.64  280.00
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                 2.30   3.24 100.42 309.43 524.08 469.33 291.02 184.3S 283.60  368.54
APPLICATIONS OF PUNDSs
Shanbhai Sewerae Project-Stag. I       0.00   0.00  46.39 265.14  472.28 415.08 234.72  72.42   0.00   0.00
Intorest Cepitallsed                   0.00   0.00   0.38   2.59   6.53  13.20  19.89  25.68   5.51  15.75
Shanghai Sewrage Project-Stage 1I      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  50.00 250.00 400.00
Other Works                            2.30   2.00   2.14   2.28   2.44   2.61   2.72   2.83   2.94   3.06
=____________________________________,__________________________________________
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES             2.30   2.00  48.91 270.01  481.27 430.89 257.33 150.93 258.45 418.81
Amortixation                           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  41.77  4I.77
Operational Interest                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  26.63  25.37
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  68.40  67.14
WORXING CAPITAL NBEDS (+)              0.00   0.81   7.02  -0.51   0.98   0.39   0.40   0.41   3.24   1.59
OTHER ASSETSILIAIIL. CHANGES           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS            2.30   2.81  55.93 269.50 482.26 431.28 257.73  151.34 330.09 487.54
CASH INCREASE (+) OR DECREASE          0.00   0.42  44.49  39.93  41.83  38.05  3S.28  32.99 -46.50 -119.00
Debt Servite Ratio                                                                                    1.1    1.3
Internal Contribution to Investment     0.01  21.21  96.11  16.6X  10.6X  12.5X  21.71  38.21   3.6S   4.72
X Capltal expend. of Net Assets         0.9X   0.8X  21.31  125.61  239.41  230.4X 148.61   9.11  16.11  26.9X
21-Oet-86



59
Annex 15 pae 3 of 5
BHANONUI SEWASRE COMPANY
FINAUC!AL PROJECSIONS
TABU. S                                       BALANCE STATSMENT                                    Y MIllioL
Fy ends 12131
-------_-----_------_---_--------------------_---------_---__-----e_---------__--_----_-_--_----_---------------------
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Flxed Assts La Operation              652.22 654.22 656.36 658.64  661.08 663.69  "66.41 2190.29 2193.23 2196.29
Accumulated Depreciation              394.44 410.77  427.15  443.59 460.09 476.65  493.27 528.98 583.78 638.64
--__----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET VIxED ASSETS                      257.78 243.45 229.21  215.05  200.99 187.04 173.14 1661.31 1609.45 1557.65
WORK in PROCRESS                        0.00   0.00  46.77  314.50 793.34 1221.62 1476.23  103.28  358.80 774.55
Cah                                     3.79   4.22  48.71  88.64  130.46 168.51 201.79 234.78 188.29  69.29
Accouats Reseivable                     0.00   0.00   7.01   6.44   7.35   7.07   8.00   8.35  11.43  12.80
Other Account Receivable                3.22   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10   4.10
Inventories                             3.80   3.73   3.88   4.13   4.41   4.70   4.96   5.18   5.95   6.84
Otber Current Assets                    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
______!______________________________.__________________________________________-
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                   10.81  12.05  63.70  103.31  146.33 184.98 218.85 252.42 209.77  93.03
DEFERRRO CHARGES                        0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
OTHER ASS8TS                            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
TOTAL ASSETS                          268.59 255.49 339.68 632.87 1140.66 1593.64 1868.22 2017.01 2178.02 2425.22
Accounts Payable                        2.78   2.78   2.93   3.12   3.32   3.54   3.73   3.90   4.51   5.18
Other Current Liabilities               0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Current MXtur.Long-Term Debt            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  41.77  41.77  41.77
,_____..__________________..______________________________________________________
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES               2.78   2.78   2.93    3.12   3.32   3.54    3.73   45.67   46.28   46.95
Otber Liabilitiea                       0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Long-TerS  Debt (net)             0.00    0.00  33.96  81.24  210.05  376.54 507.60 592.09  752.97  991.20
gross Debt                           0.00    0.00  33.96  81.24  210.05  376.54  507.60  633.86  794.73 1032.97
Minus, Current Maturities            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   41.77  41.77  41.77
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       2.78   2.78  36.89  84.36  213.58  380.08  511.33 637.76  799.24 1038.15
Operational surplus                     0.00    0.00  37.65   65.50  100.81  138.49  178.17 200.53  200.06  208.35
Capital                               265.81 252.71  265.15  483.00 826.47 1075.06 1178.72 1178.72 1178.72 1178.72
TOTAL  UITY                           25.81  252.71  302.80 548.51  927.28 1213.56 1356.89 1379.25 1378.78 1387.08
TOTAL SQUITY AID LUBILITIES           268.59  255.49 339.68 632.87 1140.66 1593.64 1868.22 2017.01 2178.02 2425.22
Current Ratio                           3.9    4.3   21.8   33.1   44.0   52.3   58.6    5.5    4.5    2.0
Total Debt on Equity                     O.O    0.01  11.2X  14.81  22.71  31.0X   37.41  46.0X  57.61   74.SX
S Days Accounts Receivable (Net)                         30      SO      30     30      30      30      30      30
21-Oot-86



- 60 -
minex 15 page 4 of S
SIWoAI SEWERAOE COMPANY
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
TABLE 4                                          *INCINO PLAY                        Y Million
----_---_-------_-----_-_--------------_,.___--_-_-__-_-__---.---.-__--.--_--__-__-----------_-----,--
TOTAL  X OF     1987    1988   1989    1990   1991    1992
SOTAL
----.--------_------------------_----_-.,_-_.--_.._.,-._--,---____-__-_------__-_------_--__---_------
Inoome before depreciation            299.60    18.31  54.03   42.83   49.14   50.33   51.24   52.02
Othet Non-Operatiloal Income (net)      19.14     1.21   0.00    1.46    2.66    3.91    5.06    6.05
CoantrLbutLons for Operation             0.00     0.0X   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
---_-____-_-_--.-______-_ --------------------------------------
CROS8 INTERJAL SOURCES OF FUNDS        318.74    19.4X  54.03   44.29   51.80   54.25   56.3.1  58.07
MINUS:
AmortiSatlon                           0.00     0.0X   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Operational Interest                   0.00     0.0X   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
------_-------__-_--__----___---------_-_-_---..-------_----.--_
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                     0.00    O      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
VORKtING CAPITAL NEEDS S+)             8.68     0.5X   7.02   -0.51    0.98    0.39    0.40    0.41
OTHER ASSETS (+) OR LIAB.NBEDS         0.00     0.0X   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
CASH INCREASZ (4) OR DECREASE          230.57    14.11  44.49   39.93   41.83   38.05   33.28   32.99
NET INTERNAL SOURCES OF FUNDS           79.46     4.8X   2.52    4.67    8.99   15.81   22.61   24.68
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
=_____________________
Shantbai Severage Project-St*&* I    1506.03    91.9X  46.S9  265.14  472.28  415.08  234.72   72.42
Interest Capitalised                    68.30    4.2X   0.38    2.59    6.55   13.20   19.89   25.68
Shangai Sewerage Project-Stage Il       50.00     3.01   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   50.00
Other Woriks                            15.02     0.91   2.14    2.28    2.44    2.61    2.72    2.83
TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES            1639.S5   100.0X  48.91  270.01  461.27  430.89  257.33  150.93
NET TO BE FINANCEDt                   1559.87    95.21  46.39  265.14  472.28  415.08  234.72  126.26
FINANCED BYt
Onlending IBRD Loan & IDA Credit       596.86    36.51  33.96   47.29  128.81  166.49  131.06   91.26
Loans Stage II Project                  35.00     2.11   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   35.00
TOTAL BORROWING                        633.86   53.7X  33.96   47.29  128.81  166.49  131.06  126.26
EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION  926.01    56.5X  12.43  217.85  343.47  248.59  103.66    0.00
TOTAL FINANCED                        1559.87    95.2X  46.39  265.14  472.28  415.06  234.72  126.26
CASH DEFICIT (IF ANY)                    0.00     0.0X   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
21-Oct-86



- 61 -
Ause 15 me'S of S
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE COMPANY
PINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
TABLE 5                                       MONITORING INDICATORS
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
ACHIEVEMENT OP TARGETS
-__-----------------------
Population Shanghai Metrop. RogLon-000   7000    7091    7183    7277    7371    7467    7564    7662    7762    7863
X Population vith Water Connections      95.0X   95.0X   95.0X   95.0X   95.5X   96.0X   96.52   97.0X   97.5X   98.02
Water Connections (End of Year)-1000    771.8  781.4  792.4  811.2  834.7  658.8  883.6  909.2  935.2  962.1
Water Sold-Million Tons                  1050    1071    1022     956      983    1023    1067    1114    1144    1191
Volume Water Sold-Llters/Person/Day       433     436     410     378      383     391     401     409     414     423
X Population vLth Sewroag Cormnotions                      541     54X     56X     58X      601    622      642    672
End of Year Sewera Conetioon-1000         439     444     450     461      489     519     549     581     614     658
Total Seawae Billed- Million Ton            0       0     909     849     874      910     949     991    lot1   1060
Average Tariff per Volume Billed Y/Ton  0.000   0.000   0.093   0.090   0.099   0.099   0.098   0.098   0.112   0.141
MANEMENT:
______________
Operating Repenes (Excluding Depreciation)
per Ton of S8ag  lilled                             0.03    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.06    0.07
9 Days Acounts Receivable                                  30      s0      30       30      30      30      30      30
Number of Employees                      4365    4365    4540    4540    4540    4540    4585    4814    5055    5055
Eployees per 1000 Bevrage Connet.         9.9     9.8   10.1      9.8     9.3      8.7     8.3     8.3     8.2     7.7
PINANCIAL RATIOSt
______________
Sewerae Revenues - Y Million                            84.51   76.77   86.18   89.72   93.48   97.43  134.21  149.35
Domestic Tariff per Voluw  Billed-Y/Ton                 0.000   0.000   0.030   0.030   0.030   0.030   0.040   0.043
Industrial & Commercial Tariff -Y/Ton                   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.120   0.161   0.173
Average Tariff per Volum  Bille  Y/Ton                  0.093   0.090   0.099   0.099   0.098   0.098   0.132   0.141
Working Rati                                             36.12   44.8X  44.52   45.52   46.92   48.32   46.3X   46.32
Operating Ratio                                          55.4X   66.02   63.22  6S.4X  64.12   83.82 86.1281.82
Rate of Return on Not Fixed Assets                       15.9X  11.9X  15.72  17.4X   19.22    1.82    1.22    1.82
Neo Income per Yea on Equity                             12.42    5.12    3.8X    3.12    2.92    1.6X    O.OX    0.62
Shanghai Swerage Project-Stage I         0.00    0.00   46.39  265.14  472.28  415.08  234.72   72.42    0.00    0.00
Total Investmaet- Y Million                 2       2      49    270      481      431     257     151     258    419
Internal Contribution to Inwestment       0.02   21.2   96.1X  16.62   10.62   12.5X   21.72   38.22    3.62    4.72
X of Investmnt FiLanced by FAuity       100.02  100.02   25.42   80.72   71.42   57.7X  40.32    0.02    0.02    0.02
Debt Service ratio                                                                                         1.1    1.3
Total Debt/Equity Ratio                   0.02    O.OX   11.22   14.82   22.72   31.09 37.42   46.02   57.62   74.5X
Current Rtlo                              3.9     4.3   21.8   33.1   44.0   52.3   58.6           5.5     4.5    2.0
ANALYSIS IN 1986 CONSTANT MPRCESt
DomestLi Tariff per Volume  llled-Y/Ton                0.000   0.000   0.025   0.023   0.022   0.021   0.027   0.028
IndustraL & Commrcial Tariff -Y/Ton                    0.113   0.106   0.099   0.093   0.088   0.085   0.109   0.111
Avesrae Tarlff per Volume Blled Y/Ton                  0.087   0.080   0.082   0.077   0.073   0.069   0.069   0.091
Real Tarlff Incre"s                                              -8.82    2.42   -6.12X-5.32   -4.52X 28.42    2.32
Operating Revenues                                      79.35   68.44   73.34   71.81   71.05  70.91   92.91   99.58
CRITICAL PFINCIAL INDICATORS BETWEEN 1986-1992
VARIABLE OR INDICATOR                   MINIU  AVEA   MAXIM           VAIAIL  OR INDICATOR         Ms13     AV    MAX
Cuab                                    69.19  154.54  234.78         Debt Service Ratio           1.1     1.2    1.3
Average Tariff per Volume Billed Y/Ton   0.07    0.08    0.09         Days Accounts ReAeLvable      30      30      30
Working ratio                            44.52   46.12   48.32        Total Debt/Equity Ratio    14.8X   40.6X   74.51
Rate of Return on Avg.FLxed Assets        1.2Z    9.8X   19.22
21-Oct-86



- 62 -             Annex 16  page 1 of 8
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Results and Assumptions used in the Analysis
I         This annex provides additional information on the estimation of
benefite and the economic rate of return, least-cost estimates of
alternatives, the average incremental cost, and affordability of the
project.
Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
2.       The project is estimated to have an economic rate of return of
about 13% using the assumptions described below, as shown in Table 16.1.
Assumptions for Benefits
3.        The estimated benefits are for property value enhancement (a proxy
to direct benefits in the project area) and three types of external benefit:
(a) increased agricultural output, (b) reduced treatment cost for water
withdrawn by industry from Shanghai's waterways and (c) cost saving in
investment in water supply as more water is withdrawn from waterways for
industrial use,
Property Value Enhancement
4.        This estimate is based upon expected improvement in land use and
property value in the ribbon development area along Suzhou Creek marked on
Figure 16.1. The area is 2.7 km2 or 4.5 km long and 300 m in width on
either side of Suzhou Csreek.
5.        Current annual profitability (annual operating income minus annual
operating cost) for various land uses and zones of Shanghai has been
estimated by the Financial Research Institute of the Shanghai Finance
Bureau. The benefit shown in Table 16.1 is estimated by assuming that 50
percent of the ribbon development area will be upgraded from Class 2
(profitability of Y 2273/m2/year)to Class 1 (profitability of Y 3033
/m2/year) for the portion east of Heng Feng Bridge, and from Class 4
(profitability of Y 1127/m2/year) to Class 2 on the west of the bridge. The
estimate takes into account a development cost of Y 540 per m2 of plot area,
derived from estimates by the Zhabei District Construction Division, for the
land area estimated to be redevelopable.
Increased Agricultural Output
6.        This estimate is based upon data compiled by the Environmental
Protection Bureau from studies done by the Shanghai Academy of Agricultural
Sciences on the impact of improved qquality of irrigation water on
agricultural output (primarily vegetable production). The data shows that
about 130 hectares of land had to be withdrawn from production due to



- 63 -             Annex 16  page 2 of 8
pollution and that about 5000 hectares (of a total of 13,300 hectares) had
reduced output due to polluted irrigation water. The output loss is
estimated at about Y 30 million (1987 prices). Estimated benefits shown in
Table 16.1 assume that about half of this annual loss will be recouvered by
the tenth year after the project is operational.
Reduced Treatment Cost
7.        Industry draws about 3 million m3 of water a day from the lower
and middle reaches of the Huangpu River. The benefit is calculated on the
basis of estimates by the Shanghai Association for Water Purification
Technology that treatment costs now incurred can be reduced by Y 0.0l/m3 as
the quality of water is improved. As with enhanced agricultural production,
this reduction is assulmed to be reached by the tenth year after the project
is operational.
Reduced Cost of Water SUPPLY
8.       Potable water is now used in industrial processes by factories
adjacent to Suzhou Creek due to pollution in the Creek. As water quality
improves in the Creek it is estimated that industries would extract about
125,000 m3/day directly from the Creek, based upon data from the Bureau of
Public Utilities. This level of extraction would permit a reduction in the
scale of new water supply expansion currently being planned with a possible
deferment of investment by over a year. These cost savings are shown in
Table 15-1 as a project benefit.
Least Cost Analysis
9.       Table 16.2 shows a summary of the estimated costs of alternative
approaches for wastewater disposal to achieve water quality objectives in
Shanghai's waterways. The selected option on least cost grounds (outfall
discharging to the Chang Jiang estuary) (para. 2.10) is about half the cost
of other means of achieving a similar level of environmental improvement.
Average Incremental Cost
10.       Table 16.3 shows the average incremental cost of the project at
various discount rates. The table shows values for capital and incremental
operating cost without and then with shadow prices reflecting differences
between China's administered and estimated border prices.
Income Distribution and Affordability
11.       Income distribution data for Shanghai was estimated from household
surveys of income and expenditures conducted by the Shanghai Finance Bureau
in 1983 and 1984. Table 16.4 shows the percentile distribution for these
years and extrapolations from these for 1985-1987.
12.       Families at the 25th percentile had about four persons per
household in these surveys. On this basis, monthly household income at the
25th percentile would be about Y 400. It is estimated that water
consumption will average about 106 l/c/d or 424 1/household/day. This
amounts to about 12.7 m3/houshold/month. Sewerage will be billed at 90% of



- 64 -             Annex 16  page 3 of 8
water consumption. Monthly sewerage charges would amount to about Y 4.46 or
about 1% of their 1987 monthly income if charges equal to the average
incremental cost were to be charged. At the proposed tariff of Y 0.03/m3
which the Shanghai authorities plan to charge domestic consumers in 1989,
the consumers would pay less than one-tenth of one percent of their monthly
income.



- 65  -                   Annex  16   page 4 of 8
CUINA
SHANGHAI SEWERACB PROJECT
Table 16.1: Economic Rate of Return
YEAR             COSTS                                   BEREFITS                             NET
___________________________    -----------------____-__---------------------    BENEPITS
Capital   0 & M    Total        Property  Astlc.  Treatment  Water    Total
Cost      Cost    Cost           Value   Output    Cost    Supply  Benefits
1987    46.39               46.39                                                            -46.39
1988   248.96             248.96                                                            -248.96
1989   416.39             416.39                                                            -416.39
1990   343.62             343.62                                                            -343.62
1991   184.18             184.18                                                            -184.18
1992    54.36              54.36                                                             -54.36
1993              25.00    25.00       -579.40      1.38      1.17   188.68  -388.17        -413.17
1994              25.17    25.17       -454.60      2.97      2.33    97.52  -351.78        -376.95
1995              25.36    25.36       -329.70      4.45      3.50    97.52  -224.23        -249.59
1996              25.52    25.52       -204.90      5.94      4.66    97.52   -96.78        -122.30
1997              25.69    25.69        501.00      7.42      5.83    97.52   611.77         586.08
1998              25.88    25.88        S01.00      8.90      7.00    97.52   614.42         588.54
1999              26.05    26.05        501.00    10.39       8.16    97.52   617.07         591.02
2000              26.22    26.22        501.00    11.87       9.33    97.52   619.72         593.50
2001              26.22    26.22        501.00    13.36    10.49    97.52   622.37           596.15
2002              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2003              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2004              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2005              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2006              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2007              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2008              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2009              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2010              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2011              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2012              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2013              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2014              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2015              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2016              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11."6    97.52   625.02           598.80
2017              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2018              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2019              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2020              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.64    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2021              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2022              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2023              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2024              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2025              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2026              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2027              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.54   623.02           598.80
2028              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2029              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2030              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2031              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
2032              26.22    26.22        501.00    14.84    11.66    97.52   625.02           598.80
Economic Rate of Return          0.13



- 66 -             Annex 16  page 5 of 8
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 16.2: Least Cost Comparisons
Option                         Total Cost
(Y million)
1.   Outfall Discharging to
Chang Jiang Estuary                         3,831
2.   Large Treatment Facility
Discharging to Huangpu                      7,176
3.   On-site treatment of Ind.
Waste And Domestic Treatment               11,104
4.  On-site Treatment of Ind.
Waste and Septic Tanks                      8,009
5.   Non-construction measures
relocating or closing ind.                  9,920



-67 -               Annex 16  page 6 of 8
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 16.3: Average Incremental Cost
Total
Flow
Capital   0 & M    Total    Total   million
Year   Cost       Cost    Cost   Cost(sp)  m3/year
1987    46.39              46.39    74.51
1988   248.96             248.96   293.26
1989   416.39             416.39   463.60
1990   343.62             343.62   389.83
1991   184.18             184.18   218.90
1992    54.36              54.36    72.23
1993              25.00    25.00    32.42   484.69
1994              25.17    25.17    32.64   487.97
1995              25.36    25.36    32.88   491.63
1996              25.52    25.52    33.10   495.37
1997              25.69    25.69    33.32   499.30
1998              25.88    25.88    33.56   503.31
1999              26.05    26.05    33.76   507.33
2000              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2001              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2002              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2003              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2004              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2005              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2006              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2007              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2008              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2009              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2010              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2011              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2012              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2013              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2014              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2015              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2016              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2017              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2018              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2019              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2020              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2021              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2022              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2023              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2024              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2025              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2026              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2027              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2028              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2029              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2030              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2031              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
2032              26.22    26.22    34.00   511.00
Discoount Rate                     10%        8%       9%       11%       12%
Net Present Value of Cost   1083.15  1193.69  1135.09  1036.58   994.41
Net Present Value of Flow   2774.63  3785.78  3227.75  2402.84  2094.82
Average Incremental Cost
Y/m3          0.39     0.32      0.35     0.43      0.47
$/m3         0.11      0.08      0.09     0.12      0.13
NPV of Cost (sp)              1286.33  1421.77  1349.82  1229.64  1178.52
AIC (sp)           Y/m3          0.46      0.38     0.42      0.51      0.56
$/m3         0.12      0.10      0.11     0.14      0.15



- 68 -            Annex 16  page 7 of 8
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Table 16.4: Per Capita Income Distribution in Shanghai
(Y per month)
Year                           Percentiles
25       37.2        50       71.2    Average
1983     43.50     48.00      52.70     60.00      53.40
1984     54.90      60.00     65.90      75.00     65.60
1985     69.30     75.00      82.40      93.80     80.50
1986     87.40     93.80    103.00    117.30       98.80
1987    100.30    107.30    117.30    134.20    112.30



-69 -              Annex 16  page 8 of 8
FIGURE 16.1: LAND USE CATEGORIES IN SHANGHAI
/1o, * -2                                    ig
/'s,'a :'' '..'.Mk  S SA    !  B  g  |  g  a. B\X\s~~~~~~~~~~



- 70 -          Annex 17  page 1 of 4
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Tariff Study
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC) of the Municipality of
Shanghai is responsible for sewerage services in all areas within the city
proper of the municipality. SSC is a self-accounting and self-funding
enterprise established in         , and operating under Law  _  of       . It
is managed along the lines of a public utility by a General Manager,
supervised by a Board of Directors, and regulated Uvder the Bureau of
Municipal Engineering Administration (BMEA) of the Government of Shanghai
Municipality (SM). The majority of SSC's present staff is recruited through
a transfer of staff from the Municipal Engineering Administration Division
(MDAD), and from a section of the Municipal Engineering Administration
Division (MEAD), both divisions of BMEA. SSC's service area includes all
urban districts of SM.
2.        SM has plans for major investments in wastewater collection and
disposal to serve the approximately 7 million population and some 4,000
industries in the city area. For this purpose the Government of the
People's Republic of China (GOC) is seeking financial assistance from the
World Bank. Prior to the formation of SSC, no user sewerage charges were
levied and sewerage services were funded entirely from SM budget
allocations. SM has given approval for SSC to commence direct sewerage
charges to industrial and commercial consumers commencing Januay 1988, and
to domestic consumers commencing in 1989. The sewerage charges would apply
to 90% of the water sold by SMWC. The present study is intended to examine
more carefully charging methods, levels of sewerage charges and tariff
structures, and to make appropriate proposals. It is also intended that the
study would come up with a systematic method for computing such charges
which can be replicated as and when required in the future.
Objectives of the Tariff Study
3.        The objectives of the tariff study are to propose appropriate
methods of charging and to design sewerage tariffs for SSC that would:
(a) allow SSC to achieve its financial objectives;
(b) reflect the economic cost of providing the services in order to
encourage pollution abatement through water conservation, resource
recovery, and better housekeeping practices among users; and
(c) take into consideration users' ability to pay.



-71-            Annex 17  page 2 of 4
Scope of Work
4.       The main tasks of the study are expected to be, but not limited
to, the following:
(a) gather and analyze all relevant data required for the study;
(b) review population estimates within the service area for the purpose
of estimating demands;
(c) review water demand projections by the Shanghai Water Supply Company
and other sources to arrive at reliable estimates for forecasting
sewerage revenues, with such demand forecasts to be appropriately
classifi.d according to categories of consumers;
(d) review cost estimates and timing of SSC's capital investment
program, and analyze operating costs according to main categories
(personnel, power, materials, maintenance, others) to arrive at
reliable forecasts;
(e) study different methods of charging for sewerage services, including
direct charges, taxes, connection fees, surcharges, land use fees,
etc., and propose appropriate method or methods of charging for SSC;
(f) Review potential benefits from increases in land values and
agriculture production due to the project for cost recovery
possibilities;
(g) prepare alternative feasible tariff proposals which should
adequately reflect the economic (long-run incremental) cost of SSC's
services;
(h) review financial projections (income statements, balance sheets, and
cash flow statements) for SSC's operations using above tariff
proposals up to 1995, showing the financial position of SSC under
the various alternatives considered;
(i) fully document all assumptions and methodology used to facilitate
future tariff reviews, and provide training to SSC Financial
Department staff on how to carry out the work; and
(j) prepare draft submission to the Shanghai Municipal Government for
approval to implement the proposed tariffs.
Important Points on Execution of the Study
5.       The following background information is available:
(a) Shanghai Urban Studies Project - Liquid Waste Management Strategy
Report; Management Report; Implementation Arrangement for Liquid
Wastes Management Report; Engineering Design Report;



- 72 -           Annex 17  page 3 of 4
(b) Consultant advisory notes (CANs) produced by Australian consultants
during the Shanghai Urban Studies financed by the Australian
Development Assistance Bureau;
(c) Final Master Plan of Shanghai Sewerage Project;
(d) Work reports by the Project Preparation Team for the Shanghai
Sewerage Project; and
(e) Staff Appraisal Report for the Shanghai Sewerage Project.
6.        in reviewing projections for future demands in water supply and
sewerage, account should be taken of the impact of urban and industrial
development Jn Shanghai, the envisaged population growth, improvements in
housing (both new construction and renewal), and rising standards of
living. Projections of water demand, sewage flows, numbers of connections
and population served should be made separately for each consumer category
(industry, public services, commercial, domestic, etc.). These projections
and the bases underlying the projections should be discussed and agreed
with SM planning officials before proceeding with the study.
7.        For estimating capital costs, use should be made of updated cost
information on capital investments, including work under construction.
Forecasts of operating costs should be made in consultation with SSC's
management and operating staff.
8.        Tariff proposals should adequately consider direct charges and
levies to be borne by users, as well as charges to non-user beneficiaries.
For industrial users, tariffs based both on volume and on effluent strength
should be considered. In developing such tariffs, the trade-offs between
what charges industries have to pay and the savings they can realize from a
reduced degree of pretreatment should be thoroughly analyzed. Proposed
tariffs should aim at providing satisfactory financial performance to SSC,
and achieving good water pollution control results. In designing tariffs
consideration should be given to ease of implementation, affordability of
low-income families and cross-subsidy from other users with greater ability
to pay. The study should also consider methods of charging users who obtain
water from sources other than the Shanghai Water Supply Company.
9.        The financial projections of SSC's operations to be produced using
the proposed tariffs are the income and expenditure statement, balance
sheet, and cash flow statement. The statements should show the funding
required in each year to meet projected cash flow deficits, or the surplus
available in each year to meet the investment needs of SSC as a whole. The
documents should show clearly how the projections and estimates were arrived
at, and the source and basis of all assumptions.
10.       Tariff structure proposals should consider increasing block rates,
with the lowest block consumption at a rate affordable by low-income users,
and rates for higher consumption blocks set to encourage conservation.



- 73-            Annex 17  page 4 of 4
Work Organization
11.       The work would be carried out by a team of four Chinese    4
professionals, working full-time, to be appointed by the BMEA Director
General, and reporting to the Project Manager of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU). PIU would provide the necessary secretarial support. It is
expected that the study would require about nine months to complete.
Expertise in the team should include the following areas: (a) finance and
accounting, (b) management specialist with tariff design experience, (c)
water pollution control, and (d) economics. At least one member of the team
should be a senior staff member of SSC.
12.       The team will be assisted by one or two foreign consultants to be
financed out of the proceeds of the World Bank loan/credit. Required
qualifications of the consultants are:
(a) successful completion of a tariff study of similar scope and degree
of complexity for a public utility;
(b) full familiarity with the economic and financial concepts underlying
pricing of public services; and
(c) knowledge and familiarity with the administrative procedures of
China and of SN would be useful. Previous work on China or
knowledge of Chines would also be of value.
Study Reports
13.       An inception report should be produced within two months after
start of work. This report should include information on demand, capital
and operating expenses, and other criteria to be used in the study. The
report should be submitted to the SSC General Manager and the BMEA Director
General for review with a copy to the World Bank. An interim report
containing proposals for various tariff and charging alternatives together
with a preliminary analysis of their financial, economic and environmental
effects should be completed in three months after agreement is reached on
the information contained in the inception report. This report should again
be submitted to the SSC General Manager and the BMEA Director General with a
copy to the World Bank for review. Remaining work on the study would be
carried out taking into account suggestions from the review of the interim
report, and a draft final report should be prepared within two months after
receipt of the review suggestions. Sufficient copies of the draft final
report should be submitted to the SSC General Manager to have the report
circulated to the BMEA Director General, other relevant regulatory agencies
of the Municipality and the World Bank for review. The SSC General Manager
will be responsible for coordinating with the various agencies and the World
Bank, and for preparing a summary of the views of all the parties concerned
to be transmitted to the study team. The report should be finalized within
two months after receipt of the summary of views.
14.      The report should be completed by December 1, 1988 to enable SM
and SSC to introduce the tariffs by June 30, 1989.



- 74 -            Annex 18  page 1 of 4
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Huangpu River Basin Management Study
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.       The Huangpu River Basin is situated at the estuary delta of the
Chang Jiang at the East China Sea. It is the downstream sub-basin of the
Taihu Lake Drainage Design which encompasses 43 counties and cities with a
total drainage area of about 36,500 sq km. The tributaries of the Huangpu
River have headwaters in Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces and drain about 70
to 80 percent of water from Taihu Lake to the East China Sea.
2.      The Huangpu River Basin includes almost the whole of the
administrative area of Shanghai. It is characterized by a network of
waterways with more than 200 rivers, streams and lakes, all interconnected
with each other. The total water surface covers (an area of about 600 sq
km, 11.4 percent of the basin's total area. Water resources are
supplemented with fresh water from rainfall, Taihu Lake and Chang Jiang,
totaling 55,800 million m3 p.a. on average.
3.       The topography of Huangpu River Basin is low and flat, and the
river system is effected by the tide. The basin is often threatened by
storm surge, tide, flooding, waterlogging, salinization and drought. The
Municipal Government of Shanghai has constructed a primary system of water
conservancy works to resolve the above mentioned problems and to meet
irrigation needs.
Malor Issues
4.       While water demands in Shanghai can be met by the Huangpu River's
water resources up to the turn of the century, the quality of the water is
deteriorating rapidly with inappropriate wastewater disposal. Most of the
major rivers in the basin are not suitable for potable purposes due to
mercury and Phenol pollution. This situation is expected to worsen with
growth in population and industrial and agricultural production, which
require a increasing demand for water supply. The major issues identified
are summarized below:
- Many institutions are involved in using water resources, but there is
no central body with overall responsibility for resource management.
- No comprehensive master planning is carried out to provide the
measures needed for efficient use and optimal management of water
resources within the basin.
- Sufficient emphasis has not been made on water resource protection
during the economic development.
- No proper consideration has been given to water resource protection
in the planning of rural towns and industrial development.
- There is a lack of management and economic measures such as charging
for use of water resources to encourage efficient utilization.



- 75 -            Annex 18  page 2 of 4
Study Oblectives
5.       The main objective of the study is to develop a strategy for the
optimal management and efficient use of the Huangpu River's water resources
within the framework of the entire Taihu drainage basin, by the application of
administrative, economic and physical measures to be implemented through
an appropriate institutional setup.
Study Approach and Main Tasks
6.       The major emphasis of the study will be to improve management and
institutional arrangements, and to identify administrative and economic
measures to encourage the efficient use of water resources and avoidance of
pollution. Detailed technical studies to prepare future physical measures
identified during the proposed study can then follow. While the study will
focus primarily on management strategy, a substantial technical component is
required in order to prepare baseline studies of resources, uses, pollution
and ma.,or hydraulic characteristics of the basin. The major tasks to be
conducted in the study are as follows:
- definition of the study area, the natural environment, existing land
use, population distribution and social and economic activities;
- identification of -.haracteristics and functions of major rivers,
quantitative and qualitative analysis of present water resources,
evaluation of economic and environmental effects resulting from water
resource utilization, defining the priority functions for major
rivers and developing appropriate water quality standards and
protection objectives;
- determination of point and non-point pollution loads from urban and
rural areas, forecasting future spatial patterns of pollution loads,
assessing existing practices in liquid waste control and water quality
protection options;
- assessment of existing institutions directly and indirectly involved
in water resource management;
- working out institutional arrangements for long-term water resource
management, including establishing water resource management
framework, co-ordinating body, responsibility and staffing
requirements, financial sources etc.;
- analysis of current and potential laws, regulations, standards and
plans which deal with water resource management; recommending
strategic options and economic and administrative measures
(pricing policies, penalties etc.) to optimize beneficial use
of water resources;
- collection and assessment of local plans, suggestions, and
assumptions dealing with water resource management of the basin;
- broad evaluation and comparison of developed options on the basis of
social, economical and environmental-ecological effectiveness, and
preparation of preferred strategy taking account of economic
efficiency and environment protection;
- submission of proposed strategy and appropriate recommendations to
Shanghai Municipality preparation of terms of reference and plan for
further studies



- 76-            Annex 18  page 3 of 4
Study Output
7.      The main output of the study should be a strategy and action-option
to make more efficient use of water resources, and to improve water quality
up to appropriate standards to be approved by the State. The study output
should include a series of reports for the major elements of the strategy
such as;
- water quality protection and standards strategy
- water resource boneficial use strategy, and
- river basin institutional and management strategy
Technical Resources
8.      A multi-disciplinary team with management and technical specialists
would be needed to conduct the study. For this purpose, Shanghai Municipal
Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) has already carried out consultations
with Shanghai Water Conservancy Bureau and other agencies concerned. It has
been proposed to set up a study team through the Shanghai Municipality
Government, but with all necessary liaison and consultations with relevant
bodies in adjacent provinces. The preliminary assumption is that the study
team would comprise technical personnel mainly from EPB, other bureaus and
agencies concerned with water resource management, as well as from
universities. The EPB would lead the study and provide overall co-
ordination and would be responsible to a high level Municipal Government
Steering Committee. Technical expert assistance by expatriate specialists
on some specific aspects will also be necessary. A first estimate of the
skills required for the study is given below;
Overseas specialists                      Man/months          Visits
Water conservancy specialist-                   4                 2
Water resource management
(Designated as Project Manager)
Economist and organization specialist           4                 2
Industrial/domestic waste specialist            4                 2
Environmental/ecological specialist             4                 2
Land use pianner                                1                 1
Systems analyst                                 1                 1
Total:                 18               10
(The above total shows the expatriate specialists working in Shanghai, and
does not include any overseas specialist support abroad. An additional 6
man/months will be required for inputs overseas giving a total of 24
man/months).



- 77-             Annex 18  page 4 of 4
Local specialist                                  man/months
Project Managar                                        12
Water conservancy specialist                           18
(water resource management)
Economist and organization specialist                  18
Urban planner                                           9
Industrial wast, control specialist                   18
Environmental/ecological specialist                    18
Statistician                                            9
Laboratory analyst                                    12
Research assistants                                    18
Total:                       132
Training
9.       The study will also provide training to skilled personnel engaged
in water resource planning and management through:
- on-the-job training
- lectures provided by local and overseas specialists, and
- overseas training for specific periods of time.
Equipment
10.      The study will require the following equipment:
- One survey-minibus
- Survey equipment
- Computer hardware and software
- Photocopier
- Video-recorder and video-display equipment
- Books and technical information
Study Cost
11.      Study costs based on man-months costs for
expatriate consultants working in Shanghai and on costs of visits of Chinese
overseas undertaken in 1985 have been estimated to be around 560,000 US
Dollars, including fees, traveling expenses, accomodations, local and
overseas training, equipment and contingencies.  The cost breakdown is as
follows:
Amount US$
Lectures and seminars in Shanghai                   10,000
Overseas training visits (allow
4 engineers/managers abroad for 4 weeks)            25,000
Equipment (see Sec. 8 above)                        60,000
Local specialist fees                               18,000
Office set up, administration, travel
communications, support etc.                      30,000
Expatriate fees and expenses                       320,000
Contingencies @10                                  47,000
Total:US$                  560,000



- 78-            Annex 19  page 1 of 4
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Management and Organization Study
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC) of the Municipality of
Shanghai is responsible for sewerage services in all areas within the city
proper of the municipality. SSC is a self-accounting and self-funding
enterprise established in         , and operating under Law _   of _  . It
is managed along the lines of a public utility by a General Manager,
supervised by a Board of Directors, and regulated under the Bureau of
Municipal Engineering Administration (BMEA) of the Government of Shanghai
Municipality (SM). The majority of SSC's present staff is recruited through
a transfer of staff from the Municipal Engineering Administration Division
(MDAD), and from a section of the Municipal Engineering Administration
Division (MEAD), both divisions of BMEA. SSC's service area includes all
urban districts of SM.
2.        Previously, wastewater from the city's urban districts was not
subject to any treatment prior to disposal. This has resulted in severe
pollution conditions in rivers running through and in the vicinity of the
city, which are seriously affecting the living conditions of the people. SM
is now taking appropriate measures to correct the sitv: tion. The plan for
doing this includes the intrrception of wastewater from combined sewers in
the City for disposal at the Changjiang estuary, and the construction of
separate sewer systems with secondary treatment plants for new urban
districts in fringe areas. SSC has been created for the purpose of managing
the disposal of liquid wastes from the city's urban districts. It is
foreseen that SSC's responsibilities will increase rapidly with mounting
efforts of the city to clean up its environment. The objective of this
study is to review the role, organization and staff of SSC, and to propose
such changes as are necessary for SSC to carry out its work more
effectively.
Scope of Work
3.        The main tasks of this study are, but not necessarily limited to,
the following:
A. Organization and Management
i. define SSC's present and future role in liquid waste management
with due regard to the policies of SM, and determine expected
growth in SSC's operations;
ii. define the main functions and geographical divisions and level of
management talent required to head these functions, with due
regard to the existing organizational structure;



- 79 .           Annex 19  page 2 of 4
iii.  define the main procedures to be used for planning, decision
making, project execution and flow of management information;
iv. design appropriate organization structure for SSC headquarters
and for each SSC branch office and workshop, taking into account
regulations and policies of SM concerning enterprise organization
structures and staffing, and present arrangements, facilities and
staff assignments;
v. prepare job descriptions and statement of objectives for all
managerial positions down to Branch Office Manager level; and
vi. review existing regulations which govern the operations of SSC,
identify areas which may affect the efficiency of SSC operations,
and propose any neceasary amendments.
B. Manpower, Staffing and Training
i. assess SSC's manpower requirements based on the proposed
organizational structures and forecast of SSC's operational
activities over the next ten years;
ii. assess gaps or excesses in staffing needs in terms of number, job
classification, expertise and experience required (account should
be taken of better utilization of existing staff together with
associated training required);
iii. establish a recruitment plan in accordance with the build-up of
SSC's operations;
iv. review existing staff recruiting practices and make proposals for
improvement; and
v. assess training needs, review training proposals included in the
project and prepare supplemental training proposals if necessary,
such proposals to include possible in-house training, training at
appropriate training institutions at home and abroad, and on-the-
j ob trainirg.
C. Personnel Policies and Procedures
i. review existing personnel policies, including salary structure,
position classification, staff performance review procedures,
bonus systems and other incentive methods and procedures, and
propose appropriate improvements giving due regard to the laws and
regulations governing employment in China; and
ii. review and propose improvements to procedures for maintaining
personnel records;



- 80 -           Annex 19  page 3 of 4
D. Administrative Procedures
i. develop internal administrative procedures for liaison between SSC
headquarters and operational units;
ii.  develop administrative procedures for communications, transport,
inventory control, procurement, security and other matters
related to operations; and
iii. review arrangements with the Shanghai Water Supply Company for
billing and collection of sewerage charges, and propose any
necessary improvement measures.
E. Reporting Systems
i. develop management information systems to include reporting
formats, type of reports, periodicity, timing and responsibility
for preparation and report distribution.
Work Organization
4.        The work would be carried out by a team of about six Chinese
professionals (full-time) to be appointed by the Director of BMEA, and
reporting to the Manager of the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction
Company (SSPCC). Expertise in the team should include the following areas:
(a) management science, (b) organization design, and (c) institutional and
labor law. At least two members of the team should be senior st ff members
of SSC. Secretarial and other logistical support will be provided by the
SSPCC under the project.
5.       The team will be assisted by a foreign consultant or consultants
to be financed out of the proceeds of the World Bank loan/credit. Required
qualifications of the consultants are given below:
(a) past major participation in a management and organization study of
similar scope and complexity for a public utility, with proposals
successfully implemented;
(b) some familiarity with customs and practices in China;
(c) familiarity with Chinese labor and Governnent administrative
regulations would be considered an additional asset.
Study Reports
6.        A work plan for the study should be prepared by the team within
one month of its formation, outlining details of the work to be carried out,
and persons responsible for carrying out the work. The work plan is to be
submitted to the BMEA Director General and the World Bank for review. Upon
approval of the plan by the BMEA Director Ceneral, the work can commence.
The time for conducting the study is estimated to be about 12 months,
including time for review by various concerned parties. An interim report
containing initial findings of the team, and any major issues which may
require changes in the work plan or in the study objectives, should be



- 81 -          Annex 19  page 4 of 4
prepared three months after work commencement, and submitted to the BMEA
Director General for review. A copy of this report should also be submitted
to the Bank. Comments on the interim report and decisions on any major
issues are expected to be communicated to the team in about three weeks.
The draft final report of the study, which should address essentially all
the matters contained in these terms of reference, allowing for any agreed
changes proposed in the interim report, should be completed four months
after approval of the interim report. Sufficient copies of this draft
report should be made for submission to the BMEA Director General to be
distributed for review by the various concerned departments of the Shanghai
Municipal Government and the World Bank. BMEA would be responsible for
coordination of the views of the various parties, and for the consolidation
and transmittal of these views to the study team. The study report should
be revised taking into account the official comments received from the BMEA
Director General, and finalized within four weeks of receipt of such
comments.



- 82 -           Annex 20  page 1 of 3
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Study on Rehabilitation of Existing Sewer System
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC) of Shanghai Municipality (SM)
is responsible for sewerage services in all urban areas of the municipality.
SSC is a self-accounting and self-funding enterprise to be established in
____, and operating under La _  of            . It is managed along the lines
of a public utility by a General Manager, supervised by a board of
Directors, and regulated under the Bureau of Municipal Engineering
Administration (BMEA) of the Government of Shanghai Municipality (SM).
Before the establishment of SSC, two divisions of BMEA were responsible for
sewerage services in Shanghai: the Municipal Drainage Administration
Division (MDAD) for operation and maintenance of pumping stations and
treatment plants, and a section of the Municipal Engineering Administration
Division (MEAD) for the city's sanitary and combined sewers, both under
BMEA. The majority of SSC's present staff have been transferred from these
divisions. SSC's service area includes all urban areas of SM.
2.        Shanghai has both a combined sewer system and separate sewer
systems with treatment plants. Some of the City's sewers in the area of the
previous concession zones were constructed over 40 years ago, and are still
in use. Many sections of these sewers have been reconstructed since 1949,
and new sewers have been added. About 25% of population of the City are
presently served by the 'Jestern and the Southern interceptors, and by
separate sewer systems. Another 30% would be served by the project when it
comes into service in 1993.
Objectives of the Study
3.        The proposed study is intended to take inventory of the existing
sewerage systems in the Shanghai Metropolitan Region (SMR), assess the
physical condition of their components, and to make appropriate proposals
for rehabilitation. The study would also provide cost estimates for
needed repairs and replacements.
Scope of Work
4.        The main tasks of this study are, but not limited to, the
following:
(a) collect and analyze all relevant data required for the study,
including the following:
i. Sewers
- Diameter
- Length
- Gradient



- 83 -           Annex 20  page 2 of 3
- Material
- Age
- Value (asset value or estimated)
- Condition (in good condition, poor condition but
repairable, or unusable)
ii. Pumping stations
- Pumps (capacity, age, value, etc.)
- Motors (capacity, age, value, etc.)
- Other main facilities like buildings (age, value, etc.)
iii. Treatment plants
- Main facilities (capacity, age, value, etc.)
- Other main facilities like buildings (age, value, etc.)
(b) make reasonable estimates for the above, if data required are not
available;
(c) prepare comprehensive maps and drawings for showing these data;
(d) make appropriate proposals for rehabilitating the existing system
and estimate the costs required, in particular sewers constructed
by pipe-jacking methods;
(e) propose measures to achieve integrated operation of the existing
and new systems, and estimate the costs required for carrying out
these measures;
(f) fully document all assumptions in the methodology used, to
facilitate further reviews by SSC Planning Department staff and to
develop the system in the future;
(g) prepare a draft submission of the proposed rehabilitation works for
SSC's approval.
The study should be conducted for all catchments in urban areas of SM.
Work Organization
5.       The work should be carried out by a team of 6 Chinese
professionals, working full-time, to be appointed by the Director General of
BMEA, and reporting to the Manager of the Shanghai Sewerage Project
Construction Company (SSPCC). SSPCC wculd provide necessary support such as
secretaries and technicians for preparing maps and drawings. Expertise in
the team should include senior staffs of MDAD, MEAD and SSC.
6.       The team will be assisted by a foreign consultant or consultants
to be financed out of the proceeds of the World Bank loan/credit. Required
qualifications of the consultants are the following:
(a) successful completion of a renovation study of similar scope and
degree of complexity;
(b) full knowledge of sanitation and sewerage technology; and



- 84 -           Annex 20  page 3 of 3
(c) familiarity with the historical background and present
administration of SM would be useful. Previous work on China would
be desirable.
Study Reports
7.        A work plan for the study should be prepared by the team within
two months of its formation, outlining details of the work to be carried
out, and persons responsible for carrying out the work. The work plan should
be submitted to the Director General of BMEA and the World Bank for review.
Upon approval of the work plan by the Director General of BMEA and the World
Bank, the study can be started.  The total time required for the study is
estimated to be nine months. An interim report with maps and drawings
containing an overview of the existing combined sewer system should be
prepared within three months after start of work, and submitted to the
Director General of BMEA and the World Bank for review. Remaining work on
the study would be carried out taking into account suggestions from the
review of the interim report, and a draft final report should be prepared
within six months after receipt of the review suggestions. Sufficient
copies of the draft final report should be submitted to the SSC Director
General, who would arrange to have the report circulated to the BMEA
Director General, other relevant agencies of the Municipality and the World
Bank for review. The study report should be revised taking into account the
official comments received from the BMEA Director General, and finalized
within one month of receipt of such comments.
8.        The report should be completed by March 1988.



- 85              Annex 21  page 1 of 8
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Proposed Training Prosram
Training and Management Development Strategy
1.        The proposed training and management development strategy aims to
utilise local training facilities and resources to the fullest, whilst
recognising that some overseas training and involvement of foreign
specialists will be required. Training will be for all staff levels from
operators to senior management. Local training facilities in Shanghai and
otlher cities in China will be utilised to the extent possible. Overseas
training will mainly involve training Chinese trainers at overseas
institutions. Upon their return to China, these trainers would become
largely responsible for conducting the staff training program. Management
development programs will be centered around improving the talents and
capabilities of senior managers and will include project work, self-
development activities, seminars, overseas visits and secondments.
2.        The training strategy will concentrate heavily on increasing the
awareness of Chinese trainers in modern training techniques. Primarily it
will bring to the attention of experienced Chinese trainers, courses
available overseas which, after modification, can be applied for the use of
the new sewerage company. Another main feature of the strategy involves
'bringing' suitable courses and programs to China to be run by Chinese
trainers. This approach would ensure that foreign training inputs would be
minimised and be focused on introducing training techniques rather than
actual job training. It will be necessary to allow for some time to be
spent by foreign trainers in advising Chinese trainers and on establishing
and setting into motion the chosen courses in Shanghai.
3.        Foreign consultant advisory input would be to assist in.
(a) assessing training and management development needs;
(b) identifying all suitable sources of training; i.e. cost-effective
and relevant sources;
(c) drafting of tender documents or terms of reference for the supply
of training services; and
(d) evaluating proposals from training services institutes and
agencies.
Local Training Facilities
4.        Multi-level training facilities already exist in China. At the
operator and trades level, two training schools already exist within the
Bureau of Municipal Engineering Administration (MUEA). These are: (a) the
Sewerage Administration Department (SAD) Training School which conducts
short courses on the operation of sewage treatment works and pumping



- 86 -             Annex 21 page 2 of 8
stations, with approximately 200 employees of SAD attending each year; and
(b) the BMEA Construction Training School which covers a full spectrum of
construction activities carried out by the BMEA, including roads, sewerage
and water supply.
5.        The Tong Ji University is the principal technical university in
Shanghai, and offers degree courses in civil and electrical engineering and
environmental science. This University also runs specialised short courses
relating to these fields. Accountancy courses are offered at the Li Xin
Special Technical School whilst degree courses in economics and finance are
provided at the Shanghai Finance College. A computer training school has
recently been established at the Baoshan Steel Works, which, apart from
serving the company, will also be offering courses to outside organisations.
The China Management Training Center at Dalian (Liaoning Province), which
was established approximately 4 years ago, provides intensive courses for
senior managers.
6.        The capabilities of these and other training institutions and the
scope and contents of this training program will be reviewed in the
managemment and organization study to be conducted under the project. The
review will include an investigation lato the content, standard and
applicability of courses offered by these training institutions, as well as
the resources and equipment available.
Training and Management Development Levels
7.        The overall training plan envisages training activities at four
basic staff levels:
(a) operator level for plant operators, assistants, and unskilled
workers in the operation and maintenance of technical
components of the sewerage system;
(b) sub-professional training for engineering and scientific
technicians and other sub-professional staff, accounts clerks,
personnel assistants;
(c)  training of professionals   managers, engineers and accountants;
and
(d) management development programme for senior management team.
Operator and Maintenance Personnel Training
8.        This training will be provided in Shanghai at existing training
facilities. Consideration will also be given to forming a new Training
Center in the SSC. Existing equipment and resources presently available in
the SAD Training School could be transferred to this new center. In
addition to general operations and maintenance training, it is anticipated
that training in the basic operation and maintenance of new plant and
equipment will be provided by the manufacturers and/or contractors at the
time of commissioning of the Stage 1 facilities. This requirement will be
stipulated in the contract documents for those works. Consideration will
also be given to involving maintenance personnel during the installation and



-87 -              Annex 21  page 3 of 8
commissioning processes for plant and equipment of the Stage 1 Project.
9.        The topics to be covered in operator training include, but are not
necessarily limited to, the following:
(a) sewer maintenance to include: inspection procedures; entranco and
safety procedures; cleaning techniques including flushing and grit
removal; repairs and maintenance procedures including trench
safety; operating procedures;
(b) sewage treatment to include: basic chemistry and microbiology of
wastewater; basic laboratory and 'in-situ' testing procedures for
wastewater; basic concepts of physical and chemical treatment;
basic concepts of biological treatment; treatments works operation
procedures covering general procedures, process control and
specific mechanical equipment (e.g. drum screens, screenings
dewatering equipment); basic concepts of planned maintenance;
safety procedures; control and fault finding principles;
administration and record keeping;
(c) pump stations to include: installation, operation, care and
maintenance of pumps; pumping principles and basic hydraulics;
ancillary equipment installation, maintenance and routine testing;
operational procedures; safety at work; maintenance procedures;
control and fault finding including emergency procedures;
administration and record keeping.
10.       While operator training courses are already offered in Shanghai,
it is necessary to review the contents of these courses to see if they can
fulfill the needs of SSC. It may be necessary to incorporate new training
techniques and training materials used overseas and, possibly, the addition
of overseas courses and training equipment.
Sub-Professional Training
11.       Topics to be covered in this area comprise:
(a)  training for engineering and scientific technicians on: general
principles and objectives of sewage collection, treatment and
disposal; special skills, e.g. laboratory techniques, use of
specific computer models; report and letter writing techniques;
programming and scheduling techniques (e.g. planned maintenance,
routine monitoring);
(b)  training for accounts clerks on: basic bookeeping principles;
basic accounting concepts and office management procedures for
control of source documents such as invoices and accounts payable;
payroll management; use of computers for processing accounts;
(c) training on Materials Management for storekeepers and store clerks
on: stock control procedures; stocktaking techniques; use of
computers in stock control and management;
(d) training for administration personnel on: library maintenance



- 88 -             Annex 21 page 4 of 8
procedures; personnel record maintenance; security training for
guards.
12.       Courses are available for several of these topics at local
training institutes and these courses can be augmented by the introduction
of training techniques and topics not covered locally or requiring
upgrading, using Chinese trainers.
Professional Training
13.       Training of engineers, scientists (chemists, biologists,
environmental scientists etc.), accountants, and other professionals will
will include technical as well as managerial topics. Management training
courses focusing on the specific management needs of SSC should be developed
and established in Shanghai using models of such courses held abroad.
Overseas visits to observe practices in other countries woould also be
arranged for senior managers.
14.       Training topics would include-
(a) management training on: decision making, accountability, and
delegation power; organisational behaviour; organisational theory;
motivation and development of staff; planning; financial
management;
(b) specialist training on: use of computer techniques in specific
professional fields; specific up-to-date techniques in engineering
and scientific fields.
Management Development for Senior Management
15.       The Senior Management Development Program is intended to prepare
senior managers, identified as candidates for top positions in the SSC, for
the expanded managerial roles required. Integration of technical and
financial management responsibilities at the top level will be the focal
point for training in this program. The program will include visits to
other cities in China and abroad, attendance at seminars, project work and
courses in Shanghai and at the China Management Training Centre at Dalian.
Trainees will be given an exposure to performance-oriented management
styles, up-to-date management planning and control techniques and
performance monitoring systems. Project work will demonstrate how
management techniques such as "performance budgeting", and "management by
target control" can be applied within the trainee's environment.
Training for Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC) Staff
16.      SSPCC training includes intensive local and overseas management
cournes for senior management personnel. Another main area of SSPCC
training is in contract law which covers contract programming and
administration, arbitration, and other related subjects. These skills have
to be acquired overseas. It is envisaged that initially two persons
(Contracts and Site Supervision Manager and Training Engineer) would
undertake a specialised "live-in" course overseas on these subjects and that
a foreign specialist would present courses in China with the assistance of



- 89-              Annex 21  page 5 of 8
the Training Engineer at a later date. To increase the pool of staff with
managerial capability, supernumerary personnel could be appointed in the
early stages of the project to gain this skill by working alongside
experienced managers.
Cost Estimates
17.       The total cost of training and management development over the
project period (1987 to 1992) is estimated to be Y 6.03 million (US$ 1.63
million) of which Y 0.62 million (US$ 0.17 million) is for the training of
SSPCC personnel (Table 1), and Y 5.41 million (US$ 1.46 million) for SSC
personnel (Table 2). Training and laboratory equipment amounting to Y 2.30
million (US$ 0.62 million) is listed in Table 3.



-90 -                    Annex  21    page 6 of 8
TABLE 1t ESTIMATED COST OF TRAINING FOR SIANOGRI SEWERUGl PROJECT CONSTRUCTION COMPANY STAFF
-.------_---.---------.-_---__--_--.------_--._--------_-------__--.---,-----__-_---------_---__---------------
Amount 'Thousands)
Item       Description of Tral.Lnn          Quantity   Unit   Rate         Total        Local        Foreign
(Thous)   amb  US$   Rub   US$   Rub  US$
1  Management TrainIt1n  at overseas
magement training institutions
Return airfares and expenses             3    No.       12.4      37    10                   37   10
Acoomodation and per diem allowance      3    Mont..   16,1       48    13                   48    13
Training pro&-wsme                      30    Days       2.8      85    23                   85    23
2 Man8aemnt Training at Chinese
mangement training institutions
* Training program - 4 year course         a    Persons  11.5       92    25     92    25
3 Training for Engineers and others
involved ln Contraot preparation,
negotiation, adtinistration dud site
supervision including contractual
law, arbitration, procedures, etc.
Intensive overseas courses for Section
M--ager (Contract Managemat and Site
Supervision) and 1 Traiang Enginser
- Return airfares and expenses           2     No.      13        26     7                  26      7
- Couraework (live in") at
recognized overseas institution        2    No.       31.5      63    17                  63   17
- per diem allowne                       6     Months    3.7      22     6                  22      6
Engagment of foreign Contract tralinn
speciallst who wlll conduct (with the
assistance of the Chinese Training
Engineer above) intoniv  eourses in
Shanghai for Engineers and others who
will be involved in Contracts
- Fees                                   3    Months   37.1    111    30                    111    30
- Return airfores and expenses           1    No.       11        11     3                   11     3
- Accommodation and per diem allowance   3    Months    9.9       30     8                   30     8
- Coursework oaterial and aids                 LuMp Sum           11     3                   11     3
4     Computer operation and programsing
training courses in ChLia for approx.
60 persons 6 months duration
Lectures and coursework material      60    Persons   0.7       42    11       42   11
5     Financial Management & Accounting
coursesin China for approx.
60 persons 6 months duration
Lectures and coursework materLal      60    Persons   0.7       42    11      42   11
Total                                                            620   167      176    47    444   120
Notes:
1. The costs given in this table are preliminary only and training needs are subject to further detailed
investigation. The costs will be incurred over the period of project implementation (1987 - 1991).
2. The costs do not include the cost of supernumery employees to be attached to and to work alongside
experienced managers to obtain experience (Paragraph 4.5).
3. Exchange rate : 3.71 Rmb Y - 1.00 US$.



- 91  -                 Annex  21    page 7 of 8
TABLE 2: ESTIMA' D COST OF TRAINING AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT FOR SHANGHAI SEWERAGE COMPANY
__                        ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Amount (Thousands)
Item    Description of Training             Quantity    Unit    Rate         Total          Local         Foreign
RMB      ----------     ----------     _______
(Thous)    RMB    US$     RMB   US$    RMB   US$
1    Professional/Sub-Professional
cadetships at
University (4 year course)             20   persons    26       520    140      520    140
College (3 year course)                42    persons     7.5    315      85     315     8S
2     Intensive short-courses for Trades/
Administrative personnel at College
or Tech School in China                 136   persons      5.0   680    183       680    183
3    Operator training courses
in Shanghai                             200    persons     1.0   200       54     200     54
4     Training of Chinese Trainers at
overseas training institutions
Return airfares and expenses            4   No.         12        48     13                     48    13
Accommodation and per diem allowance    6   Months      16.1      96     26                     96    26
Training and development progr&ime
-technical, operations, maintenance    30   Days         1.9     56      1S                     36     1S
- Management training and development  30   Days         1.9    56       15                     56    15
- Finance and budgetary control        30   Days         1.9    56       15                     56     1S
Training aids, coursework material,
references to be brorsht back to China  3    Sets       39.6    119      32                    119     32
Administration and Co-ordination in
overseas country where courses are
being conducted                         6   Months       6.2      37     10                     37    10
S     Foreign Specialist advice on and
assistance in the implementation of
training and management development
courses in Shanghai
Fees - Technical specialist (1)         1.5 Months      37.1    56       15                     56    15
- Management specialist k1)        1.5 Months      37.1    56       15                     56    15
- Finance and budget
specialist (1)           1.5 Months      37.1    56      15                      56    15
- Management development adviser   4   Months      37.1    148      40                    148    40
Return airfares and expenses            5    No.        12.4      62     17                     62    17
Accommodation and per diem allowance    5,7 Months       9.1    52       14                     52    14
6     Training and laboratory equipment for
Sewerage Authority (see Table 4,3)           Lump Sum          2302    620    1093    295    1209    326
7    Management Development Programme for
10 most senior managers including
project work, self-development
activities, seminars, overseas visits
and secondments
P        . Return airfares and expenses for
Chinese managers going overseas        10   No.         12.2   122       33                    122    33
Accommodation and per diem allowance
for Chinese managers whilst overseas   10   Months      16.0    160      43                    160     43
Materials, references, miscellaneous
expenses                                     Lump Sum             37     10                     37    10
8     Management Training in China for
managers at all levels
Training programme                     15    Persons    11.5    173      46     173     46
Total                                                      5407   1456    2981    803    2426    654
Notes:
1. The costs given in this table are preliminary only and training and management development needs are subject fo
further detailed investigation. The costs will be incurred over the period 1987 to 1991.
2. Exchange rate   3.71 Rmb Y    1.00 US$.



.92-                     Annex  21    page 8 of 8
TABLE 3; ESTIMATED COST OF TRAINING AND LABORATORY EQUIPMENT FOR SHANGHAI SEWERAGE COMPANY
--------------_-_---------------------_---__-_--_-----------__--------------__-,-_----------_----------
Amount (Thousands)
Item          Description             Quantity    Unit     Rate      Total         Loaal       Fore ign
PieN   ---------    ---------    ---------
(Thous)  RMB   US$    RMB   USS    RMB   USS
1     Water and wastevater analysis
equipment - general               2       Sets     106.5   213    57    213    57
2     Electrical maintenance and
testing training equipment        1       Set       58      58    16      58    16
3     Mechanical maintenance and
testing training equipment       2        Set       11      22     6      22     6
4     Audio/visual training
equipment                         1       Set      200     200    54    200    54
S     Computer PC including
screen, keyboard, printer        10       No.       20     200    54    200    54
6     Atomic absorption
s.pectrophotometer                1       No.      371     371   100                  371   100
7     Gas chromatograph                 1       No.      371     371   100                  371   100
8     Electronic balance and
associated equipment              4       No.        3.7    15      4                  15     4
9     Stereo microscope                 4       No.        7.5   30       8                  30     a
10     Infrared colorLmeter              1       No.       45       45    12                  45    12
11     Ultra-violet spectrophotometer   1        No.        7        7     2                   7     2
12     Miscellaneous training
and lab, equipment                        Lump Sum         770   212    400   108    370   100
Total                                               2302   621   1093   295   1209   326
Note   Exchange rate : 3.71 Rmb Y = 1.00 USs$



- 93 -                          Annex 22
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data available in Project File
Item No.                      Description
1.     China: Long-Term Issues and Options; World Bank Report No.
5206-CHA, May 1985.
2.     Eccnomic and Social Development in Shanghai by Municipal
Statistical Bureau of Shanghai, 1985.
3.     Shanghai Sector Memorandum (Urban); World Bank Report No.
4227-CHA, December 1982.
4.     Shanghai Urban Studies Project - Liquid Waste Management Strategy
Report by Maunsell & Partners Pty Ltd, Pak-Poy & Kneebone Pty Ltd,
Binnie & Partners Pty Ltd, R.J. Nairn & Partners Pty Ltd, Coopers
& Lybrand.
5.     Shanghai Combined Sewerage Implementation Project - Preliminary
Design, Report and Drawings by Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Design Institute, Shanghai Tunnel Engineering Design Institute and
Design Institute of Shanghai Municipal Engineerring Bureau, August
1986.
6.    Shanghai Combined Sewerage Implementation Project - Management
Report by Shanghai Municipal Engineering Adminstration Bureau and
Binnie & Partners Pty Ltd, August 1986.
7.     Water Pollution Prevention and Treatment Law - People's Republic
of China, May 11, 1984.
8.     Procedures for Pollution Charges and Fines - Shanghai
Municipality, May 1984.
9.     Provisional Regulations on Registration and Control of
Corporations - State Council, People's Republic of China, August
14, 1985.
10.-    Guidelines for the Management of Land Acquisition for Capital
Construction in Shanghai - Shanghai Government, October 20, 1980.



IBRD 20201
12110  DI~~~~         II? '1                              '~~~0  A005
U- A-            J 1A N C. s                                                                                                                                                                                  Fenghuan
51,00000 Ioo*80n,dn  \   bo050005,,L  -I+ -s,K%
~~~  TO  30 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~showhwn COutfell
MNKKn@t6,,   p      o O                                                                 Wusong
;O   (             b                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gaoa,lao
I Ut 4 fN (v S U                                                                                                                           -                                               O.ALL
)  ,    3i11 Y3  xlpj:e      . !;l;2   rus                                                                                                       /                 Zhuyuan
Zh -,MS-    /  :g
-  -                                       1                 /,       / --t      \    +oe\\  \/   SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
. ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~       .-,,,ng\\                                                              '        Esifn      Pooe
b3R,1g4tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.lOrol ~~~~ ~ ~ ~       ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~        omie andl Seot See Syst m
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ' 'ph Cnt-ru19tio_
IA N'i  i, A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  TvnBx uor  ontuto
~~  ~                    ~~                                              I                                                                  SeparateSewerSysCtem N 
P             *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAGA iEWRAE ROEC
N~~~~~~~~~~j                            -I-                                                                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-           - -  CoSbangea Uran Ae Qd  CiteBunarat  e   y)
0 ,.*d.omn 041000180.00,8.00000 of Dl. 000288. .ho tonsoos~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Lin SwerPupig Safon
00,810000100000 00 m01000 a.od 0000010000010.0010000*000015~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Tmamen Plnt
01 010 0.10 10o r0080* .100. 00.010010000.100 0000001.000090011 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     (  Pie Cnstuctor
0001,80.1 0010 01 OlD 000,0000 000*0100000000000 olin 00.0.-.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     (DTurnelContrutO
(3) TvAn Box CuWrt Construction198



