Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15846
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1779-CHA/LOAN 2794-CHA)
June 28, 1996
Environment and Municipal Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CtURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name: RenmLinbi
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
(as at Appraisal Date, September 1986)               (as at December 31. 1995)
Y 1.00            100 fen                  Y 1.00   =       00 fen
Y 1.(0          $0.27                      Y 1.00   =      $0.12
$1.0(     =     Y 3.7                      $1.0()    =     Y 8.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASUJRES
I meter (m)                      =      3.2808 teet (ft)
1 kilometer (kim)                =      0.6214 mile (mi)
1 cubic meter (mr')              =         35.3147 cubic feet (ft-')
I cubic meter (1ns) or ton of water   =  284 U S gallons
1 liter(l)              ,               0 264- US gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter per second (m'/sec)   =   35.3 145 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMEA                Bureau of Municipal Engineering Administration
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
ICB                 International Comiipetitive Bidding
MDAD         =      Municipal Drainage Administration Division
MEAD         =      Municipal Engineering Administration Division
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
SAR          =      Staff Appraisal Report
SMG          =      Shanghai MuLnicipal Government
SMSC                Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company
SMWC         =      Shanghlai Municipal Watervorks Company
SSC          =      Shanohai Sewerage Company
SSPCC        =      Shanghai Sewerage Project C onstruction Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface............................................................................................................................ii
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................                                                              iii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................1
A.  Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives ............................................................1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...............4
D.  Project Sustainability  ............................................................8
E.  Bank  Performance ............................................................9
F.  Borrower Performance ............................................................9
G.  Assessment of Outcome ...........................................................                                         10
H.  Future  Operations ...........................................................                                             10
T.  Key  Lessons Learned ............................................................1.1
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................................................                                                     12
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ...........................................................                                  12
Table  2:  Related  bank  loans ...........................................................                                    13
Table  3:  Project Timetable ...........................................................                                       13
Table 4: Credit/Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..... 14
Table  5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................... 15
Table  6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operation ................................................ 16
Table  7:  Studies included  in  Project ..........................................................                             16
Table  8a:  Project Costs ..........................................................                                           17
Table  8b:  Project Financing ...........................................................                                      17
Table  9:  Economic  Costs and  Benefits ........................................................... 17
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................................     18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......................... 20
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff  Inputs ......................................................... 20
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ..........................................................  21
Annex 1: Project Review From  The Borrower's Perspective ..................................... 22
Annex  2:  Financial Status ..........................................................                                                     27
|  his document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



A



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1779-CHA/LOAN 2794-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Shanghai Sewerage
Project in China, for which Credit 1779-CHA in the amount of SDR 78.9 million ($100
million equivalent) and Loan 2794-CHA in the amount of $45.0 million equivalent was
approved on April 14, 1987, and made effective on March 7, 1988.
The loan/credit was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original
closing date of June 30, 1993. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place
on December 1, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Geoffrey Read, Environment and Municipal
Development Division (EA2EM), of the China and Mongolia Department. East Asia and
Pacific Region, and Terry Hall (consultant) and was reviewed by Mr. Songsu Choi, Acting
Chief, EA2EM, and Mr. Juergen Voegele, Acting Project Advisor.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in
February 1996, in connection with Loan 371 1-CHA (Shanlghlai Environmnent Pro ject). and is
also based on materials in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by providing review comments on the dra-ft tCxt, a1n throu-gLlh tilhe SbiubissioI of a
detailed Project Completioni Report (Anlex 1).






- 111 -
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1779-CHA/LOAN 2794-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The project objectives were to:  (a) establish appropriate institutional and
organizational arrangements for the management of liquid wastes and environmental
protection in Shanghai; (b) establish a self-financing company to deliver and manage urban
wastewater services; (c) strengthen mechanisms to control discharge and improve water
quality in the Huangpu River and its tributaries; and (d) support the first part of a phased
program of work to provide primary wastewater infrastructure services to enable economic
growth.
2.    Shanghai is one of the largest cities in Asia, with an urban population in December
1995 of some 12 million, and a rapidly growing economy. The project was the first part of
a program of works to improve the environment in Shanghai through the interception,
treatment and disposal of about 1.4 million m3/day of wastewater that discharged into the
Huangpu River and Suzhou Creek. The project was designed to benefit about 2.6 million
people in these areas of the city and comprised intercepting and linking sewers, pump
stations, and treatment and discharge facilities.
3.    Prior to the project, operation and maintenance of wastewater services in Shanghai
were funded through governmnent budgetary allocations through the Bureau of Municipal
Engineering Administration (BMEA) of the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG). In
March 1987, the start of the project, the Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC) was
established with the objective of becoming a financially-autonomous sewerage company to
manage the liquid waste of the city.  Direct-user service charges (Y 0.12/mi3) for
commercial and industrial consumers were introduced for the first time in Shanghai in late
1986. The project financial covenants required wastewater tariffs to be implemented so
that, after 1992, SSC's revenues at least covered its operating and maintenance expenses
and the larger of either depreciation or total debt service.
4.    The project's physical objective of providing infrastructure services was realistic
and appropriate. It responded to a serious pollution problem in the local water bodies and to
Chinese and Bank goals for environmental remediation in urban areas. However, the
project's institutional and financial goals, though laudable, were ambitious, and proved
attainable only in the longer term. During much of the project period, China's economy
and institutional structure continued to rely on central planning principles, without a market



- iv -
orientation. In this environment, the introduction of a market orientation in one of the key
institutions providing municipal services proved challenging. In time, however, with
Shanghai's general adoption of commercial principles, the city administration became more
receptive to new approaches. Progress in financial and institutional reform realized rather
recently is expected to continue during the follow-on Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
(SSPII), supported under Loan 3987-CHA.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project objectives have been generally met: (a) institutional arrangements for
liquid waste management were in place by the end of the project; (b) though delayed and
later than planned, putting in place arrangements for charging for wastewater services for
the first time in Shanghai was a significant step to achieve financial sustainability; (c) the
creation of a managed Upper Huangpu Protection Zone supported by training in discharge
monitoring and analysis began to make a quantifiable improvement on the environmental
quality of the waterways; and (d) the physical investment program provided, by the end of
the project, essential wastewater services to meet the needs of some 2.5 million urban
residents, and infrastructure for enabling urban redevelopment and related economic
growth.
6.    The project was originally planned to be implemented in five years through March
1992. Construction proceeded generally satisfactorily, with high-quality workmanship,
although delays arose due to slow startup by a Borrower unfamiliar with Bank procedures
(this was the first Bank-supported environment project in China), unexpectedly difficult
ground conditions along sections of trunk sewers, lengthy investment project approval
procedures by central government, and technical difficulties on a major tunnel outfall
contract. The project closing date was extended by a total of 2.5 years for the above
reasons. Nevertheless, the project has been commissioned and is already operating at about
two thirds of its designed capacity and is effecting significant improvement in the water
quality of the Suzhou Creek (29 percent reduction in biochemical oxygen demand is
reported).
7.    SMG/SSC complied with covenants in the project legal documents, although with
some major delays. Project goals for SSC's institutional and financial development into an
independent, financially self-sustaining entity were only marginally met. These were
probably overoptimistic objectives for this first Bank Group-supported environmental
investment in Shanghai.  Low wastewater tariffs set by SMG, out of concern for
affordability as well as popular reaction, have left SSC with a continuing need for indirect
charging arrangements and government subsidies, apparently contrary to the Central
Government's policy of "polluter pays." SMG is addressing the financial and institutional
weaknesses of SSC under SSPII.
8.    The total project cost is estimated at $441 million (Y 3.704 million) compared to the
appraisal estimate of $356 million (Y 1,530 million). The 24 percent project cost increase
since appraisal in dollar terms was mainly due to unprecedented increases in the costs of



v -
materials and labor. The project cost increase in yuan terms of 242 percent reflects: (a) the
devaluation of local currency; (b) the fact that most expenditures were in local currency, and
increased by the unprecedented labor and materials cost increases; and (c) the price
contingencies allowed at 4.1 percent were underestimated. These increases are considered
reasonable, under the circumstances.
9.    Bank Group financing of a Credit of SDR 78.9 million and a Loan of $45 million
amounted to $153.34 million (35 percent of project costs) which was fully disbursed. SMG
provided the balance of the counterpart funds in a satisfactory manner.
10.   The Bank enjoyed an open and frank working relationship with SMG and SSC, and
maintained staffing continuity on the project. The Borrower managed the project with
highly-competent staff and maintained staff continuity from preparation through to
completion. These facts enabled large-scale physical works to be completed in reasonable
time, and supported an open dialogue when the more challenging project initiatives
concerning institutional strengthening and implementing wastewater tariffs commenced.
11.   With project objectives generally met, the project outcome is satisfactory.
Sustainability of project investments is likely in view of a strong institutional capability for
operation and maintenance and SMG's renewed commitment to making the sewerage
system financially self-sustaining. Wastewater tariffs have been increased substantially,
and are expected to be further raised to meet financial covenants under SSPII. With the
strong commercial orientation now pervasive in Shanghai, the prospects for SMG's
fulfillment of these covenants is quite good.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The physical works were completed satisfactorily.  However, the institutional
strengthening and financial autonomy of SSC was only initiated under the project. Reasons
for this include the allocation of construction and operational responsibilities for the project
under separate companies (SSPCC, the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company,
and SSC, respectively). SMG's management emphasis on the construction of works, and
due to pressure to complete the more visible physical work, less attention being given to
institutional issues, and a late requirement under the project's financial covenants for direct-
user domestic charges (five years into the project).
13.   In order to address the above deficiencies, SMG arranged that SSC be upgraded to a
self-financing public utility company, and major direct-user wastewater tariff enhancements
were approved in July 1995. In November 1995, SMG established the Shanghai Municipal
Sewerage Company (SMSC), comprising the merged operations of SSC and SSPCC, as a
financially-autonomous state-owned  enterprise responsible for all aspects of urban
wastewater management in Shanghai. This brought together all of the city's sewerage
operations under one organization.  Putting in place a financially-sustainable urban
wastewater utility company was a major step forward, stemming from the project. The
outcome of these major institutional and financial changes will be monitored under the
recently-approved SSPII project.



- vi -
14.   The key lessons learned from the project are:
(a)   Institutional development is a slow process, depending on an enabling
environment;
(b)    Programs of physical works should be closely-linked with actions for the
institutional and financial development of the utility enterprise;
(c)    The Bank can play a meaningful role in supporting large-scale urban
infrastructure, especially through encouraging the Borrower to give attention
to institutional and financial matters;
(d)    The low ICB ceilings of $3.0 million and $270,000 for civil works and
equipment contracts, respectively, did not attract international contractors.
In future similar lending operations, there may be a strong case for very
large management contracts moving toward program lending;
(e)    High-quality planning and project management yield results on the ground;
and
(f)    Project design should be formulated to ensure that sufficient time is allowed
to put in place arrangements to achieve covenants that could be difficult to
implement.
15.   The formation of SMSC, drawing on the experience gained through the project,
will make it one of the largest wastewater companies in the world. This will assist
Shanghai in providing essential urban environmental services well into the next century,
providing for growth and reducing the current service backlog. The implementation of
tariffs, though levied later than expected, will sustain the provision of services and serve
as a role model for other major cities in China.



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1779-CHA/LOAN 2794-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project objectives were to:  (a) establish appropriate institutional and
organizational arrangements for the management of liquid wastes and environmental
protection in Shanghai; (b) establish a self-financing company to deliver and manage
urban wastewater services; (c) strengthen mechanisms to control discharge and improve
water quality in the Huangpu River and its tributaries; and (d) support the first part of a
phased program of works to provide primary wastewater infrastructure services to enable
economic growth.
2.    The project was the first part of a comprehensive staged program of works to
improve the environment in Shanghai through the interception, treatment, and disposal of
wastewater from the main commercial areas of the city; and enhance residential and
industrial development along the Suzhou Creek, one of the main waterways within the city.
Project infrastructure was designed to serve about 2.6 million people by the year 2000 in
these areas of the city (estimated about half of the population of the urban area at that time),
and comprised: (a) construction of a sewerage system that includes 35 kilometers (km) of
intercepting sewers, about 21 km of link sewers, 2 main and 8 smaller pumping stations, a
treatment plant and other ancillary works; (b) conducting of four project-related studies; and
(c) staff training. The project was also intended to develop the institutions for providing
sewerage services and managing and protecting the environment. This involved setting up
a self-financing sewerage company, the Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC), and creating a
mechanism to control and improve water quality in the Huangpu River and its tributaries.
The Huangpu River is the main source of water supply for Shanghai.
3.    The project's physical objective of providing infrastructure services was realistic
and appropriate. It responded to a serious pollution problem in the local water bodies and to
Chinese and Bank goals for environmental remediation in urban areas. However, the
project's institutional and financial goals, though laudable, were ambitious, and proved
attainable only in the longer term. During much of the project period, China's economy
and institutional structure continued to rely on central planning principles, without a market
orientation. In this environment, the introduction of a market orientation in one of the key



institutions providing municipal services proved challenging. In time, however, with
Shanghai's general adoption of commercial principles, the city administration became more
receptive to new approaches. Progress in financial and institutional reform realized rather
recently is expected to continue during the follow-on Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
(SSPII), supported under Loan 3987-CHA.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Project Implementation
4.    Status of Achievement of Objectives. The project objectives were generally met:
(a) institutional arrangements for liquid waste management were in place by the end of the
project; (b) though delayed and later than planned, the project's establishment of
arrangements to charge for wastewater services for the first time in Shanghai was a
significant step to achieve financial sustainability; (c) the creation of a managed Upper
Huangpu Protection Zone supported by training in discharge monitoring and analysis began
to make a quantifiable improvement on the environmental quality of the waterways; and (d)
the physical investment program provided, by the end of the project, essential wastewater
services to meet the needs of some 2.5 million urban residents and infrastructure for
enabling urban redevelopment and related economic growth.
5.    Physical Objective. This project was the first in China supported by the Bank
Group to address environmental protection, reflecting the increasing importance attached by
Government in recent years to this neglected area. The main objective of this project was
the provision of physical works for the interception and treatment of wastewater flows
discharging to the Huangpu River and Suzhou Creek, and disposal of the wastewater
through deep submarine outfalls to the Changjiang estuary in the vicinity of Zhuyuan (about
10 kmn east of Shanghai City). The facilities, designed for a flow of 1.4 million m3/day,
were substantially completed and commissioned in mid-1994 (about two years later than
originally  scheduled),  with  the  wastewater  flow  presently  reported  around
1.0 million m3/day (71 percent of design flow).  Apart from the technical difficulty
experienced due to the collapse of the southern outfall tunnel (caused by gaseous methane)
under the Changjiang estuary, the physical works as originally planned and designed have
been successfully completed by the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company
(SSPCC).
6.    Institutional and Financial Objectives. Prior to the project, Shanghai's Bureau of
Municipal Engineering Administration (BMEA) was mainly responsible for sewerage
services in Shanghai, with operation and maintenance shared by two divisions, namely the
Municipal Drainage Administration Division (MDAD) and the Municipal Engineering
Administration Division (MEAD). At that time, all wastewater operation and maintenance
services were funded through governmental budgetary allocations; no direct-user charges
were levied. During project formulation, the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG)
recognized this unsatisfactory situation, and established SSC in March 1987 as a condition
of Board Presentation. As stated by the Government, SSC's objective was to become a



- 3 -
financially-autonomous sewerage company to manage the liquid wastes from Shanghai
City.
7.    The engineering and administrative staffs from MDAD and MEAD provided a base
organization for SSC, with financial and accounting staff recruited externally. In tandem
with SSC's establishment, direct-user service charges were introduced in December 1986
for industrial and commercial consumers (Y 0.12/m 3).  Financial covenants required
wastewater tariffs to be implemented so that after 1992, SSC's revenues were to be not less
than the sum of: (a) total operating expenses (including depreciation); and (b) the amount
by which debt service exceeded depreciation (Project Agreement Clause 3.03). SSC's net
revenue was to be at least 1.3 times its maximum debt service requirements. To achieve
these objectives, the following actions were taken:
(a)   tariff policies and proposals were recommended in the Final Tariff Report
prepared by consultants under the project in October 1992; and
(b)   detailed tariff proposals were made by SSC in January 1993, together with a
Tariff Action Plan (cleared with the Bank) to ensure covenant compliance.
8.    However, SMG did not follow all of the recommendations and related timing of the
Tariff Action Plan. Compliance with the financial covenants was maintained by SMG
through a combination of very low direct-user charges to commercial and industrial
consumers only, utility tax allocations, and governmental budgetary provisions. Only in
July 1995 was SSC authorized by SMG to charge domestic consumers and to adjust its
tariffs to the following levels:  domestic consumers-Y 0.14/mr3 and nondomestic
consumers-Y 0.34/m3. Importantly, the domestic consumers would be billed through
joint-billing with the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC), with the
wastewater charge shown separately. This is thought to be the first time in China that
domestic consumers have been charged for wastewater services. Implementation of this
authorized adjustment was not confirmed until April 1996.
9.    Institutional change is a slow process, and in 1995 (eight years after being
established), SSC still operated very much along the lines of the government department
from which it was formed, i.e., depending on governmental budgetary allocations for day-
to-day operation and maintenance of its assets. However, in preparation for the Second
Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSPII, Loan 3987-CHA), which was approved by the Bank's
Board on March 21, 1996, SMG established in December 1995 the Shanghai Municipal
Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC) as a self-accounting, self-funding state-owned enterprise.
SMSC was formed following the merger of SSC and the Shanghai Sewerage Project
Construction Company (SSPCC). Unlike SSC, which had a relatively flat structure of 36
units reporting to a Director's Office, SMSC has a rational, pyramnidal organization to
facilitate operational effectiveness, as recommended by an organizational study carried out
under the first project. Institutional development and training support being provided under
the second project, including financial and management improvements, are expected to
allow SMSC to function as an independent and legally-autonomous public enterprise
having all the rights and powers of a company, including being held responsible for its



- 4 -
operations, with the exception that SMG still sets tariffs and charges. In future, the
financial objective of SMSC would be to: (a) preserve the value of its assets; and (b) earn
from its wastewater operations funds sufficient to meet operation and maintenance costs
and debt service, and generate funds for future investments.
10.   In summary, while the financial covenants under the project were technically
complied with by SMG/SSC (although with some delays and after prompting by Bank
missions), SMG did not abide by what the Bank understood to be the spirit of the
agreements reached at appraisal and negotiations.' Given the lack of any previous debt
service, SSC's tariffs were intended to eliminate the need for operating subsidies and allow
it to cover its operating expenses, pay interest during construction, finance normal capital
investments, and accumulate a cash surplus during the project implementation period.
However, tariffs were set at levels that necessitated SSC's having to receive substantial
operating subsidies during the whole implementation period in order to be in compliance
with the financial covenants. Contrary to the Central Government's policy of "polluter
pays," SMG has been reluctant to set wastewater tariffs at levels that would allow SSC to be
self-financing, citing affordability and community reaction as the chief concerns.
Nevertheless, some important actions have been taken recently. The formation of SMSC as
a broad-based service utility at the end of the project period was a major step forward in
institutional development, and the improved tariff structure was a major step forward on the
financial side. Further action aimed at enhancing SMSC's financial condition will be
required under SSPII. The first project thus paved the way for the follow-on project. The
steps taken to implement comprehensive wastewater tariffs citywide, together with the
formation of SMSC have created a financially-strong utility as shown in the financial
projections in Annex 2. The projections take account of the expected investments (and
consequent revenues) to be financed under SSPII.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
11.   The project was originally planned to be implemented during a five-year period
through March 1992. Following appraisal in September 1986 and Board Presentation in
April 1987, Project Effectiveness was delayed until March 1988, awaiting the "registration"
of SSC as a company. Due to the delayed effectiveness and the initial unfamiliarity of the
executing agency, SSPCC, with Bank procurement procedures and requirements, project
construction started more slowly than anticipated. Nevertheless, construction proceeded
generally satisfactorily, and the quality of construction workmanship was reported to be of a
very high standard.
12.   The project closing date was extended three times for periods totaling 2.5 years
(from June 30, 1993, to December 31, 1995) for the following reasons:
SMSC does not agree with these statements. SMG advised that while being in agreement with the financial
objectives, the needed increase in direct charges should be phased in over a longer time to respect concern over
affordability levels.



(a)   difficult ground conditions that were not expected along parts of the trunk
conveyor routes;
(b)   clearance procedures by central government for bidding invitations for
equipment and materials, and works to be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures; and
(c)   technical difficulties experienced on a major contract (Contract 9.1) that
entailed the construction of twin 4.2 meter diameter wastewater outfall
tunnels, some 1.4 km long under the Changjiang estuary. In late 1992,
construction crews in the southern tunnel encountered unexpectedly large
pockets of gaseous methane, dispersed randomly in unstable organic silt and
lenses of highly-unstable fine sand. This caused the partially-completed
tunnel linings to buckle in several places and to subsequently collapse.
Meanwhile, the northern tunnel was completed satisfactorily and was
commissioned in December 1993.
13.   Because of these problems, the project closing date was extended as indicated
above: (a) to October 31, 1993, to allow SMG time to make arrangements for SSC to meet
its financial covenant under the project; (b) to December 31, 1994, to enable project
completion with Bank support; and (c) to December 31, 1995, to ensure completion of a
second outfall tunnel to replace that collapsed. It was estimated that all works for the tunnel
reconstruction would be completed by December 1995, although it was acknowledged that
the program of construction left no room for slippage. By October 31, 1995, some 1,170
meters of the replacement tunnel had been excavated and lined, although progress had been
slow due to recurring methane problems and the need for maintenance and replacement of
essential parts of the tunneling equipment. By December 31, 1995, the second tunnel was
about 86 percent complete. Due to the difficult ground conditions of running sand being
encountered, the work was suspended in December 1995. The contractor, with agreement
from SSPCC, decided to install air locks in the completed tunnel and behind the tunnel
boring machine so that the excavation can be carried out under air pressure; and the
tunneling equipment has been refurbished. Tunneling started again in March 1996, and the
work is expected to be completed and operational by August 1996. Otherwise, all major
infrastructure works in the project have been completed and satisfactorily commissioned,
including the completion of link sewer systems in six additional catchment areas to provide
improved service delivery to about 1 million residents in these areas.
14.   Construction.  A consultant team, supported by the Australian International
Development Assistance Bureau, was engaged by SMG to assist in preparing the project
through appraisal. This team was retained during project implementation to assist SSPCC
and the local design bureaus in finalizing key tender documents and procurement
procedures. Subsequently, the consultant team assisted SSPCC in project monitoring and
reporting and provided specialist inputs (e.g., tunnel expert and control system engineer), as
requested by SSPCC. Supervision of the works was undertaken by SSPCC in combination
with locally-recruited construction supervisors (e.g., from Tonji University). Construction



- 6 -
workmanship was consistently reported to be of a very high standard. It is also noted that
comments by visiting Bank missions on construction matters were addressed both
competently and expeditiously by SSPCC managing personnel.
15.   However, on a number of occasions, missions reported adoption of lower
construction standards, with less cover (protection) to reinforcement in culvert construction
than recommended in current international practice. The cover did, however, comply with
national standards and contract requirements. This concern would be addressed through the
follow-on SSPII project, in which concrete protection to steel would be increased to be
consistent with current international practice. The project also highlights the benefit from
the bilateral assistance provided by the Australian Government, which supported the
planning, engineering and institutional analysis inputs that clearly contributed to enabling a
new organization to successfully implement a large-scale infrastructure program. It also
shows the benefit of continuity of consultants from the planning/design stage through to the
construction management/supervision services stage.
16.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. In view of the construction of major works
through congested central areas of the city, land acquisition, resettlement of residents, and
relocation of industries were very important project activities.  At appraisal, it was
estimated that 15,144 persons would need to be resettled to make way for project
construction. SSPCC was able to substantially reduce the actual number of resettled
persons as compared to the appraisal estimate, and about 9,200 people and 394 factories
were successfully relocated by SSPCC to accommodate the original project components
and the six additional link sewer systems that were implemented under the project. The
reduced impact of resettlement was achieved by careful routing of the wastewater
conveyors. Bank missions periodically reviewed with SSPCC its procedures and progress
for land acquisition and resettlement, and found both satisfactory.
17.   Studies. The project included the following studies: (a) Organization, MIS and
Tariff Study for SSC; (b) Sewer Rehabilitation Study; and (c) Huangpu River Basin
Management Study. These were all completed satisfactorily (by national/international
teams), although somewhat later than planned at appraisal. Details of the objectives and
impacts of these studies are presented in Table 7.
18.   Procurement. After a slow startup due to SSPCC's unfamiliarity with the Bank's
procurement procedures, the procurement process was implemented successfully. Works
and goods were initially split into 33 contract packages, but ultimately into 48 packages as a
result of splitting some of the sewer contracts (in order to expedite progress by employing
more contractors), and including some additional link sewer works. While the work was
probably accelerated in this way, SSPCC was faced with more difficult contract
management and administration of the works (although this was stated by SSPCC not to be
any problem).
19.   In accordance with the legal agreements, civil works contracts of $3.0 million and
above, and goods contracts of $0.27 million and above, were invited under ICB procedures.
Cement and reinforcement were procured separately by SSPCC for supply to the



- 7 -
contractors. In retrospect, the $3.0 million ICB ceiling for civil works proved quite
inappropriate, and international contractors were not attracted to bid for the work. In fact,
only two contracts (a length of culvert constructed in tunnel, and a pipe-jacking contract,
both awarded during the early days of construction) were awarded to international
contractors. All other civil works contracts (ICB and NCB) were won by local firms (with
little or no international interest). At one stage, SSPCC proposed (and the Bank agreed)
that certain culvert construction originally open to international bids, should be restricted to
national bids in view of the lack of international interest in bidding. It may be mentioned
that in the follow-up environment projects in Shanghai (Shanghai Environment Project,
Loan 3711 -CHA, and the Second Shanghai Sewerage Project, Loan 3987-CHA), increasing
the ceiling for ICB civil works contracts to $10.0 million does not seem to have encouraged
international contractors to participate to any great extent. Referring to the contracts for
equipment and materials, only two contracts out of 12 were awarded to a foreign supplier.
20.   Project Costs. The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at $356 million
(Y 1,530.5 million), based on the exchange rate of $1.0 = Y 3.7 at that time (September
1986). Subsequently, in 1993, the cost was updated to reflect: (a) unprecedented increases
in the basic costs of local materials and labor; and (b) devaluation of local currency in
comparison with the US dollar (from Y 3.7 at appraisal to Y 8.4 in December 1995). The
latest project cost is estimated at $441 million (Y 3,704.4 million), including the cost of link
sewer systems in the six additional catchment areas referred above. In dollar terms, the total
project cost has increased by about 24 percent since appraisal. When compared in yuan,
costs are 242 percent above the appraisal estimate reflecting: (a) the devaluation of local
currency (by 127 percent); (b) expenditures predominantly incurred in local currency (for
civil works and to a large extent for materials/equipment contracts); and (c) price
contingencies found to be much higher than the figure of 4.1 percent of base cost that was
estimated at appraisal. A detailed comparison of the appraisal estimate and the final project
cost estimate is presented in Table 8A. Bank Group-financing comprised a Credit of SDR
78.9 million and a Loan of $45 million; these were fully disbursed to an amount of $153.34
million (35 percent of project costs). The comparison of the financing plans is given in
Table 8B. When compared in dollar terms, the actual loan/credit total disbursement is some
6 percent above the appraisal figure of $145.0 million due to appreciation of the SDR.
Funds were passed on through SMG to SSC through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Counterpart funds were provided by SMG in a satisfactory manner, and the financing plan
was considered satisfactory.
21.   Project Justification. Least-cost solutions were adopted to provide the principal
basis for the justification of the project. The primary benefits of the project come from its
contribution to improving environmental quality in Shanghai's waterways, particularly
Suzhou Creek, through the removal of industrial and domestic wastewater that was
formerly discharging to the waterways. A 13 percent economic rate of return (ERR) of the
potential net profitability from property value enhancements along Suzhou Creek was
estimated at appraisal, assuning a 10 percent discount rate. Water quality in Suzhou Creek,
measured in terms of biological oxygen demand, has improved by some 29 percent as a
result of commissioning of the project (see data in Table 6). However, the ERR has not



- 8 -
been recalculated due to the major urban renewal programns being undertaken by SMG in
the Suzhou catchment area (and elsewhere) of the city, thus preventing meaningful update
of the ERR calculation on the appraisal basis.
22.   There have been significant qualitative benefits, however, including the following:
(a)   the formation of a major urban services provider, SMSC, which at the end of
the project period, was providing (through project-supported investments)
wastewater services to about 2.5 million people;
(b)   the provision of essential and cost-effective urban infrastructure to Shanghai,
enabling orderly and environmentally-safe economic growth in a large part
of one of China's premier cities;
(c)   the project completes the first stage of a major long-termn environmental
program to clean up the environment and promote sound financial
management. Suzhou Creek, long known to be one of the most polluted
waterways in China, has already shown an improvement in water quality;
and
(d)   the putting in place of essential services for people in need, enabling the
removal of nightsoil systems and the provision of basic wastewater disposal
services to householders, in many cases for the first time. Health benefits
are not quantifiable but will be significant over the medium term.
23.   Regarding financial returns from the project, the average incremental wastewater
cost was estimated at Y 0.39/m3 at appraisal, using a 10 percent discount rate (adoption of
shadow pricing of inputs increased this figure to Y 0.46/mi3). Comparison with the latest
direct wastewater user tariffs, Y 0.14/mi3 for domestic and Y 0.34/m3 for nondomestic
consumers, gives a clear indication of the need for continued indirect charges and
governmental subsidies to ensure SMSC's financial viability and sustainability of the
physical assets provided under the project, until such time as the direct tariff levels are
brought into line with actual costs of the service.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Project sustainability is considered likely. The sustainability of the physical assets
created under the project is very closely linked to the operation and maintenance capacity of
SMSC and to the budgetary provisions allocated to it by SMG. Institutional capacity is not
considered a problem-SMSC has a competent staff with substantial experience in
operation and maintenance. On the funding side, achieving financial sustainability of the
wastewater system is critical to adequate operation and maintenance of existing facilities
and to the system expansion required to support Shanghai's continued growth. The project
introduced tariffs that now meet operating and maintenance expenses (excluding
depreciation). However, with only marginal tariff increases during 1993-95, but wage and
administrative cost increases of about 55 percent and 46 percent a year, respectively, SSC
had to rely on government transfers-construction taxes and public utility levies
(principally on water supply)-to meet stormwater drainage and debt service costs.



9-
Recently, SMG signaled its intention to press on toward making the system financially self-
sustaining by approving substantially increased wastewater tariffs in July 1995, which were
implemented from March 1996. To meet Shanghai's financial targets for SMSC under
SSPII would require further tariff adjustments which, if implemented, would ensure
continued development of SMSC's financial capacity.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   Throughout the project life, the Bank enjoyed a very close and frank working
relationship with the concerned government agencies responsible for the project execution
(SMG, SSC and SSPCC). Staff continuity on the Bank's side played an important role in
this regard; only two Bank Task Managers (including the current manager) have been
involved throughout the life of the project. Initially, the "skills" of mission personnel
fielded during the project supervision were predominantly "engineering," reflecting the
major emphasis during the initial years of the project, on designs, tendering and
construction of works (while assisting SSPCC and SSC in the review of studies, training.
and institutional and financial development proposals for SSC). Details of mission
resources are provided in Table 13 where it is seen that institutional and financial specialists
were included regularly in later Bank mission teams.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   Borrower performance was generally satisfactory, although deficiencies must be
noted in implementation of some project aspects. SMG established SSPCC under the
direction of a senior manager for the preparation and implementation of the project.
SSPCC was staffed up with a full complement of senior professionals and supporting
personnel. This organization was maintained throughout the project and has carried out its
duties in a very responsible and professional manner. Management and staff continuity
within SSPCC has certainly contributed to the very successful implementation of the
physical components of this project (and indeed SSPCC has been entnisted by SMG with
construction under SSPII).
27.   SSC was established by SMG to be responsible, as a self-financing public utility
company, for operation and maintenance of existing wastewater facilities and, ultimately,
for the operation and maintenance of the assets created under this project. While SSC
demonstrated a capacity to operate and maintain the physical assets that have been created,
for various reasons it failed to grow into the self-financing institution envisaged at appraisal.
In this respect, the performance of SSC was below that expected at appraisal. The reasons
for this include: (a) lack of priority given to institutional development during project
formnulation; (b) major emphasis in the project on the construction of works; (c) direct user
domestic charges effectively covenanted only from 1993 onward (five years into the
project); and (d) allocation of construction and operation responsibilities under separate
companies (e.g., SSPCC had no responsibility with respect to the financial covenants
pertaining to SSC).
28.   Compliance with the covenants was maintained by SMG/SSC throughout the
project period, although at times reluctantly and with long delays; details are provided at



- 10-
Table 10. In retrospect, institutional development and financial management could have
received greater emphasis during formulation of the project covenants-actions required to
be taken five years down the line do not always merit serious attention by the executing
agencies.
29.   The Borrower successfully implemented all the studies identified in the SAR
(although with some delay), and the various in-country and overseas training programs that
were identified at appraisal were successfully completed. Additional language skills
training needs, which were identified toward the end of the project period, were not
followed up by the Borrower, despite reminders during Bank missions, principally due to
pressure of other commitments. These studies made significant contributions to future
initiatives. The Huangpu River Basin Study provided a design for the Shanghai
Environment Project and for the formation of the Upper Huangpu Water Protection Zone,
strengthening Shanghai's ability to reduce above-standard wastewater discharges. The
Tariff Policy and Organization and Management Study provided a basis for the revised
tariffs, and contributed to SMG's decision to create SMSC. Finally, the training undertaken
yielded results as shown by the ability of a small municipal department to manage major
construction works, embark on institutional upgrading, and begin to be financially
sustainable.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   The project outcome is rated satisfactory. Apart from the technical difficulty
encountered with the construction of the southern outfall tunnel, the physical objectives of
the project were completed very satisfactorily. In fact, SSPCC implemented additional link
sewer systems in the further six catchment areas of Guohe, Yiejiazhai, Mudugang,
Beixinjing, Wuning, and Guangzhong, improving service delivery for some one million
residents in these areas.
31.   The institutional strengthening of SSC proceeded slowly and its expected financial
sustainability was not achieved. In retrospect, this may not have been anticipated due to:
(a) the major emphasis on construction of works; (b) newness, as this was the first Bank-
supported environmental project for Shanghai (and China); (c) the requirement of actions
by SMG/SSC only from 1993 (five years into the project) by the financial covenants
provided in the project agreements (these covenants were designed to coincide with the
planned completion of the physical works); and (d) the operation of SSPCC and SSC as two
separate entities, which was probably appropriate when the project commenced as activities
were quite separate, but not the optimal organizational structure once assets were serving
the city on a large scale. SMG has now taken action to amalgamate all activities by SSPCC
and SSC into a single agency (see below).
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.   In November 1995, SMG established the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company
(SMSC) in order to bring together all the wastewater operations of the city under one
organization [this may be compared with the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
(SMWC), which has been in operation for more than 100 years]. SMSC is headed by a



- 11 -
Construction Company, an Operations Company, a Monitoring Center, and a Training
Center. The total staff is around 4,100. The future operation of the project is very much
dependent on SSC's and now SMSC's ability to operate and maintain the assets provided.
SMG has upgraded SSC to a self-financing public utility company, and in fact, major direct
user tariff enhancements were sanctioned from July 1995. The outcome will be monitored
during the coming years under SSPII.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The key lessons learned from the Shanghai Sewerage Project are:
(a)   Institutional development is a slow process, depending on an enabling
environment;
(b)   Programs of physical works should be closely-linked with actions for the
institutional and financial development of the utility enterprise;
(c)   The Bank can play a meaningful role in supporting large-scale urban
infrastructure, especially through encouraging the Borrower to give attention
to institutional and financial matters;
(d)   The low ICB ceilings of $3.0 million and $270,000 for civil works and
equipment contracts, respectively, did not attract international contractors.
In future similar lending operations. there may be a strong case for very
large management contracts moving toward program lending;
(e)   High-quality planning and project management yield results on the ground;
and
(f)   Project design should be formulated to ensure that sufficient time is allowed
to put in place arrangements to achieve covenants that could be difficult to
implement.
34.   The formation of SMSC, drawing on the experience gained through the project,
will make it one of the largest wastewater companies in the world. This will assist
Shanghai in providing essential urban environmental services well into the next century,
providing for growth and reducing the current service backlog. The implementation of
tariffs, though levied later than expected, will sustain the provision of services and serve
as a role model for other major cities in China.



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Not
Achievement of Objectives               Substantial      Partial      Negligibk      Aplicakk
Macroeconomic policies                                                                     X
Sector policies                                                                            X
Financial objectives                                        X
Institutional development                                                 X
Physical objectives                          X
Poverty reduction                                                                          X
Gender concerns                                                                            X
Other social objectives                                                                    X
Environmental objectives                     X
Public sector management                                                  X
Private sector development                                                                 X
Project Sustainability                    Likely                 Unlikely           Uncertain
x
Bank Performance                    Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactorv         Deficient
Identification                                                    X
Preparation assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                         X
Supervision                                                       X
Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactor              Deficien
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                                                     X
Covenant compliance                                              X /a
Assessment of Outcome                Highly                                            Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactori    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactry
x
,'a Marginally satisfactory



- 13 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                          Purpose                Approval           Status
Preceding Operations
None
Following Operations
Shanghai Environment    To provide a sustainable environment for  1994    Ongoing
Project               long-term economic and social
Ln 371 1-CHA           development in Shanghai.
Second Shanghai        To provide a safe environmental setting  1995    Approved
Sewerage Project       for the long-term growth of Shanghai.           March 31, 1996
Ln 3987-CHA
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                         Date planned    Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        03/85                   06/85
Preparation                                      1985-86                 1985-86
Appraisal                                         09/86                   09/86
Negotiations                                      02/87                   02/87
Board presentation                               04/14/87               04/14/87
Signing                                          07/14/87               11/23/87
Effectiveness                                    10/14/87               03/07/88
Project Completion                               06/30/92               12/31/95
Loan closing                                     06/30/93               12/31/95



- 14
TABLE 4: CREDIT/LOAN DISBtlRSEMENTS: CUrMUJLATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ 000,000)
Financial Year       Appraisal estimate     Actual       Actual as % of estimate
1988 /a                    12.00             10.26              75.0
1989                       33.00             14.70              44.5
1990                       71 00             29.56              41.6
1991                      104.00             53.63              51.6
1992                      131.00             72.40              55.3
1993                      145.00             98.89              68.2
1994                        -               131.26              90.5
1995                        -               151.09             104.2
1996                       I- l13. 34/b                        105.8
/a    Includes the initial disbursement of $9.0 million for the Special Account.
/b    Due to appreciation of SDR, the actual amount in dollars is increased
substantially.



- 15 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR           Estimated at appraisal (1986)   Actual (1995)La
Targets
Population million                                        7.863                      9.329
% population with water connection                       98.0                       98.0
Water connections (1.000)                              962.1                      1,853.9
Water sold million tons                               1,191.0                     1,459.0
Volume water sold, l/c/d                               423.0                       428.0
Population with sewer connection                         67%                        67%
Sewerage connections, '000                              658.0                     1242.0
Total sewage billed, millioni tons                    1,060.0                      989.33
Av. tariff/volume hilled, Y.:ton                          0.141                      0.102
Manaoement
Operating expenses/ton of sewage billed                   0.07                       0.17
Days accounts receivable                                 30.0                       30.0
Number of employees                                   5,055.0                     3,944.0
Employees/1000 sewver connections                         7.7                        3.2
Financial Ratios
Sewerage revenues, Y million                            149.35                     100.58
Domiiestic tariff/volume billed. Y/ton                    0.043                      0.02
Nondomestic, Y/ton                                        0.173                      0.156
Average tariff. Y/ton                                     0.141                      0.102
Working ratio                                            46.3%                      52.6%
Operating ratio                                          81.8%                      59.1%
Rate of return on net fixed assets                        1.8%                      22.920%
Net income/year on equity                                 0.6%                       14%
Slianghai Sewerage Project Stage I
Total investment, Y million                             419.0                      221.7
Internal contribution                                     4.70
% investmilenit finatnced b\ equity                       0.0o
Debt service ratio                                        1.3                        1.2
l'otal debt/equity ratio                                 74.5%                      15.8%
Current ratio                                             2.0                         1.10
Analysis in 1986 Constant Prices
Domestic tariff, Y/ton                                    0.028                     - /b
Nondomestic tariff, Y/ton                                 0.111                     0.14
Average tariff. Y/ton                                     0.091                     0.09
Real tariff increase                                      2.3%                      n.a.
Operating revenues, Y mnillion                           99.58                     149.80
/a  Provided by Borrower.
/lb  At current prices.



- 16-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key operating indicators in SAR
I .     Interception of ADWF
The planned interception of ADWF is 1,400,000 m3/day. Actual intercepted ADWF of 1995 is
1,040,000 m3/day.
2.       Water quality indicators of Suzhou Creek
Before 1993 commission                1995
DO                                         1.27 mg/i                    2.12 mg/l
BOD5                                      33.77 mg/I                   23.83 mg/l
NH,-N                                     11.71 mg/[                   11.05 mg/l
TABLE 7: STUIDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                   Purpose as defined at appraisal        Status     Impact of study
Organization, MIS &    To dcfine organization and management   Complete  Recommendations accepted by SMG.
TaritT Study for SSC /a  and tariff strategies for SSC                    implemented in part
Sewcr Rehabilitation   To inventory and assess physical condi-    Complete  Recommendations not yet imple-
tion of existing sewers and recommend             mented. Report provided basis for
rehabilitationi needs                             preparation of SSPII
Huangpu River Basin    To develop a strategy for optimal man-    Complete  Provided a basis for whole basin
Management             agement and efficient use of the Huangpu           planning management approach of
River water rcsources                             Huangpu catchment
/a  Organization. MIS and Tariff Studies combined into a single consultancy (originally two studies in SAR).



- 17 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimate                  ActualL
Item                               Local    Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign    Total
Civil works                        120.7      75.2     195.9      191.84     77.89    269.73
M&E equipment                        9.6      26.7      36.3       4.25      54.94     59.19
Services                            12.5       8.1      20.6      26.59       4.35     30.94
Land acquisition                   48.4       10.6      59.0      67.60      13.55     81.15
Base Cost                      19J12      120       311.8
Physical contingency                19.1      12.1      31.2
Price contingency                   7.9        5.1      13.0
Total Project Cost             2182      13.7      356        29028    150.73    441.01
/a     Costs include contingencies.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate                    Actual
Item                              Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    TotalLa
IBRD/IDA                            7.2     137.8     145.0         2.62    150.73    153.35
Shanghai Municipality                                             287.66      19.30    306.96
Central Govemment                211.0       16.6      227.6      290.28    170.03    460.31
Total                          2182       ]54.4      72 k
/a     Due to appreciation of SDR, the "dollar" total is increased accordingly.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
A. Direct Benefits
Not applicable.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal estimate            Actual (at final development)
Economic rate of return          13%           Not recalculated due to major urban renewal
programs being undertaken by SMG in catchment
areas of Suzhou Creek and elsewhere in the city,
thus preventing any meaningful recalculation of
ERR (which was based on assumed increased rental
values).



- 18 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original      Revised
Agree-                 nant   Present  fulfillment   fulfillment
ment      Section     type    status      date          date            Description of covenant            Comments
Project      2.02        5        C      Nov. 1987    Nov. 1987   The staff, functions and
responsibilities of SSPCC would be
maintained in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
2.07       10        C      Dec. 1990       1994      1 he training program would be
implemented by SSPCC and SSC in
accordance to a schedule agreed with
the Bank, and be completed by Dec
31, 1990.
2.08        7        C          -            -        Rescttlement would be carried out in
a maniter satisfactory to the Bank.
2.09        5        C      Dec. 1990    Dec. 1991    SM would send a draft Transfer and
Operations Agreement to the Bank
tor review by Dec 31, 1990 and have
the agreement conclided with SSC
hy l)ec 31. 1991.
2.10       10        C      Dec. 1988       1992      A maiagement and organization
study for SSC would be completed by
Dcc 31, 1988.
2.11(a)      10       C      June 1989       1992      A sewerage tariff study would be     Study delayed in
completed by Dec 31. 1988 and the   line with overall
recommendations would be            project delays,
implemented by June 30, 1989.       hence
recommendation
delayed
2.11 (b)     2        C          -            -        Sewerage charges agreed with the     Once a tariff
Bank would continue to be           system was
implemented for commercial and      implemented,
industrial consumers.               Borrower showed
increasing resolve
to ensure financial
sustainability as
shown in SSPII
commitments
2.12       10        C     Dec. 1988       1992       A lluangpu River Basin study would    Delays due to data
be completed by Dec 31, 1988.       availability and
inexperience
Borrower
2.13A       to       C      Dec. 1989       1992       Sewer system rehabilitation study
would be completed by Dec 31,
1989.
2.14        6        C      Dec. 1988       1992      New pollution control regulations
would be enacted by Dec 31, 1988.
3.01(b)      I        C                       -        Annual financial statements of SSC
and auditor's reports on accounts of
SSC, SSPCC, withdrawals on the
basis of SOEs and the Special
Account would be fumished to the
Bank within six months after the end
of each fiscal year.
3.02        I        C     Dec. 1988    Dec. 1995    SSC' would complete and incorporate
in its books an inventory and
valuation of its fixed assets by Dec
31. 1988.
3.03(a)      2        C      FY 1992       FY 1994    For each FY after FY1992, SSC's
revenues should at least cover its
operating and maintenance expenses
and the larger of either depreciation
or total debt service.
3.03(b)(c)    2        C          -             -       Before Sept 30 of each FY, SSC
sholoid fumish to the Bank result of
review re compliance with 3.03(a) on
the basis of forecasts prepared, and
take all necessary measures in order
to meet the requirements.
3.04        2        C        1987         1994       Limit further debt unless areasonable



- 19-
Cove-             Original      Revised
Agree-                 nant   Present  fulfillment   fulfillment
ment      Section     type    status      date          date            Description of covenant            Comments
forecast shows that SSC's net revenue
is at least 1.3 times its maximum debt
service requirements.
Credit     Sched. 3.     5        C          -             -       Consultants satisfactory to the Bank  Consultants
Section 11                                              would be engaged on a continuous     engaged
basis to advise on detailed design,  throughout project.
preparation of contract documents,  Performance
construction supervision, and       satisfactory
conducting of project-related studies.
Covenant types                                                                        Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                      8  = Indigenous people                      C    = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue         9  = Monitoring, review, and reporting      CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries       10  = Project implementation not             CP  - complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds       covered by categories 1-9             NC  = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                  11  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the                   budgetary or other resources allocation
project or executing agency         12  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                     regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntarv resettlement             13  = Other



- 20 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significant "lack of compliance" from applicable Bank Operational Manual
statements has been identified.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stage of project cycle                             Weeks               $'000
Through appraisal
Appraisal-Board                                     161.6              415.6
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                                         97.9               280.3
CompletionLa                                          5.0                15.0
Total                                            264.5               710.9
La    Estimate.



- 21 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized
Stage of project cycle                                         staff skills   Imple-       Devel-
Month/      No. of    Days    represented     mentation     opment       Type of
year      persons   in field     /a &          status     objectives    problems
Through appraisal            Sep. 1986
Appraisal through Board      Apr. 1987
Approval
Board approval through       Mar. 1988
effectiveness
Supervision
Apr. 1988      1         2           E             I            I
Nov. 1988      l         5           E              -            -
May 1990       I                     E              I            I
Jan. 1991      2         5         EC, F           I            I
Nov 1991       2         9          E. F            I            I
May 1992       3         11      ME, E, EE          I            I
Oct. 1992      4        20       ME, F, EE,        I            I
EC, IN
Dec. 1993      5                 ME, E, EE,         I           I
EC, RE
Jul. 1994      4         ?     ME, E, F, RE,       5           45
TS
Feb. 1995      3        10        ME, F, E         5            5
Completion
Feb. 1996      4         1          EC             I            I
Apr. -Jun.     3         1        E, F, EE          I            I
1996
/a  E: Sanitary Engineer
EC: Economist
EE: Environmental Specialists
F: Financial Analyst
IN: Institution Specialist
ME: Municipal Engineer
RE: Resettlement
TS: Tunnel Specialist
lb   Borrower involved in two Bank-supported follow-on investments (Loans 3711 and 3987) both of which support expanded
wastewater infrastructure. Considerable indirect supervision through cost-effective Borrower dialogue as part of project
preparation benefited both direct supervision of SSP and formulation of follow-on investments.



- 22 -                      ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.    The Borrower provided substantive and constructive comments on the draft ICR
during discussion with the Bank mission in Shanghai during February 1996 and in
subsequent correspondence dated April and May 1996.
2.    The Borrower submitted an Implementation Assessment Report. This is shown
below.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT FOR SHANGHAI
SEWERAGE PROJECT (PHASE I)
I.    Successes
Shanghai Sewerage Project (Phase I) (SSPI) is the first environment project financed by
the World Bank in China. The objective of the project is to deal with the water pollution
in the urban section of the Suzhou Creek. The main content of the project is to construct
the intercepting facilities and sewers to collect the wastewater from the service area of
70.57 km  and convey the wastewater to Zhuyuan near the Changjiang estuary for
submarine discharge after the preliminary treatment. The construction of the project
commenced in August 1988 after the preparation of about four years, and in the end of
1993 the main body of the project was put into commissioning, and up to the end of 1995
the construction of the whole project was completed except the Outfall Tunnel No. 2.
The relative successful implementation of the project has been made. The main successes
are as follows:
1.    Preliminary results of treatment of the Suzhou Creek have been obtained. The
engineering facilities of the project were put into operation in 1994. From 1995 on about
I million cubic meter of wastewater was intercepted every day, of which 90% were from
the areas along the Suzhou Creek. The wastewater from the service area of the project
which was formerly discharged directly or indirectly into the Suzhou Creek is now
basically discharged into it no more. The water quality of the Suzhou creek has been
improved to certain extent, dissolved oxygen has increased and the black and deteriorated
appearance of the Creek has been essentially eliminated. The demarcation line between
the Huangpu River and the Suzhou Creek caused by the difference in the water quality
can not be clearly seen any more.



- 23 -                    ANNEX 1
2.    The construction quality is relatively good. The project is mainly comprised of
pipeline works with various construction methods including trenching and pipe-
embedding, pipe-jacking, shield tunneling and in-situ reinforcement concrete casting after
excavation. There is soft ground foundation in Shanghai area and geological conditions
are not so good, but, because of adopting appropriate technical measures aiming at
conditions encountered, the construction quality of most project components is fairly
good. The civil works and the installation of mechanical and electrical equipment in two
main pumping stations and the preliminary treatment works are of high quality. 85% of
the project components were evaluated as of high quality based on the statistics of the
engineering cost of the whole project. Four project components were awarded golden
medal by the Municipality for their construction quality. (An additional one is under
approval.)
3.    Application of funds is under good control. Both the loan funds and the domestic
counterpart funds were frequently estimated and reasonably applied. Investment-fixing
system has been introduced and a series of measures have been adopted so as to save the
funds. For example, under the prerequisite of not changing the function of the project,
design was optimized to decrease the engineering cost, amount of land acquisition and
resettlement was reduced to save the preliminary cost. International and domestic
competitive bidding were carried out strictly according to the Guideline of the World
Bank, and this also caused the engineering cost under control. It was ensured through
these measures that the total cost of the project did not exceed the original project budget.
Additionally, a part of the remaining loan funds has been applied to the construction of
connecting sewer systems in six drainage catchments, that is, Guohe, Guangzhong,
Yejiazhai, Wuning, Mudugang and Beixinjing catchments.
4.   Introduction of some new technology and equipment
Some new technology and equipment have been introduced. For example, the
contract of a section of the main conveyor was won by the joint venture of Zublin
Company of Germany and the Third Engineering Company of the Second Navigation
Engineering Bureau of China. In this contract the curved pipe-jacking technique of big
diameter and long distance has been introduced. The diamneter of pipe is 3.5 meters (m)
and pipe-jacking stretches to 1,275 m and 930 m respectively with a plane radius of 620-
1000 m. The construction quality reaches good grade. Another example is Peng Yue Pu
Pumping Station. In this pumping station 8 vertical axial mix flow volute pumps have
been installed, which were designed by the Sulzer Company and manufactured
cooperatively by Sulzer factory in Leeds UK and Shanghai Pump Works. The flow
capacity of each pump is u[ to 5.75 - 7.39 m3/s with a head of 14.65 - 2.21 m, and the
efficiency reaches 85.4% - 86.3%. The performance indicators of the pump set come up
to advanced standard.



- 24 -                    ANNEX I
5.    Satisfactory and successful land acquisition and resettlement
The land acquisition and resettlement was implemented timely in accordance with
the government's ordinance and regulations to meet the progress requirements of the
project. Also the buildings for resettlement were constructed in advance and the
impacted residents have been well resettled.
6.    Successful testing and commissioning for mechanical and electrical equipment
and the whole system
Before the whole was put in to operation, individual and joint testing of the
mechanical and electrical equipment were carried out, especially in Peng Yue Pu
Pumping Station, Preliminary Treatment Works and Outfall Pumping Station. The
operation features of the whole system were basically mastered, some necessary
operation regulations were established and some problems occurred during testing were
solved. Except for the second outfall tunnel which is still under construction, the whole
system trends toward normal operation after commissioning for more than two years, and
I million cubic meters of dry weather wastewater is intercepted and discharged every
day. A more comprehensive and systematic hydraulic test was made about one year after
the commencement of project commissioning. The test results showed that the efficiency
of pumpsets in Peng Yue Pu Pumping Station and Outfall Pumping Station were superior
to the national standard, pumpsets were running smoothly, can be started and stopped in a
flexible, easy and safe way, reaching a relative high level of automation. Vibration and
noise level met the national requirements. The flowing capacity of both interceptor and
pressurized culverts were up to the designed requirements.
7.    Reduction in impact on environment as much as possible
In addition to good implementation of land acquisition and resettlement, great
efforts were made during preparation of construction method and progress schedule and
construction period to reduce disturbance and impact on traffic, surroundings and daily
life of residents. After the Project was put into operation, actual inspection and analysis
of water quality was made in the Changjiang estuary. The analysis results showed that no
change of water quality can be measured in water area 500 m from the outfall, indicating
that dilution and dispersion of wastewater discharged is better than the testing results of
mathematical and physical modeling.
II.   Problems
1.    During construction of Outfall Tunnel No. 2 unpredictable situations were
encountered, a lot of flowing sand together with methane rushed into the tunnel and the
tunnel was deformed. Although many emergency measures were adopted the tunnel was
still facing collapse. so it was decide to stop construction immediately and fill the tunnel
with water to maintain the existing condition. After repeated studies it was considered to
be more reasonable in technique and economy to build a new tunnel rather than to repair
it. So this tunnel was blocked and abandoned, and a new one is constructed.



-25-                       ANNEX1
2.    Strict review and control were not applied in some subcontracting of components,
so that difficulties in managing was increased. Some contradictions in progress and
construction quality need to be dealt with.
3.    Mechanism transfer of operation administration organization was not carried out
simultaneously with the engineering construction, and the financial independent public
utility company was not established in due time.
III. Experiences and Lessons
1.    The World Bank's mature experiences in project management has been integrated
with the actual situations in Shanghai, and the project administration level has been
significantly raised up, compared with other similar projects.
The World Bank's assistance is obtained from project setting to project construction. The
project manager and related specialists assigned by the World bank visited shanghai at
regular intervals to inspect the project. This gave promotion to the project progressing
and instruction to the project management, and also gave much help for the successful
completion of the project.
During the period of the project preparation and implementation, assistance from the
Australian consultants were obtained. They provided assistance in preparing for the
project assessment documents and tender documents, and put forward many valuable
suggestions for engineering design and project management.
The Shanghai Municipal Government established specially the Shanghai Sewerage
Project Construction Company and the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction
Headquarters for the implementation of the project. Based on the actual situations in
Slhanghai, the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company organized rich technical
lhuman resources to manage the project in accordance with the World Bank's
requirements. For example, International Competitive Bidding and Local Competitive
Bidding were carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement; construction supervision was carried out according to FIDIC Clauses; funds
administration and payments were made strictly pursuant to stipulations, etc. So the
construction quality was greatly raised while the construction cost was controlled.
2.    The project options were compared repeatedly to make the project more
reasonable in technique and economy. If a project is to be implemented, the first thing is
to determine the objectives of the project. After determination of the project objective it
is quite important to repeatedly compare options to implement the project. During the
period of the engineering feasibility study and the engineering design of the project, the
number of pumping station and the type of intercepting facilities were studied and
compared repeatedly, experiences were gained as well as lessons. Where the decision
was made after considering comprehensively and listening to both positive and negative
opinions, successful results will be obtained.



- 26 -                    ANNEX I
3.    Engineering  measure and non-engineering  measures should be adopted
simultaneously, only with method can the treatment of the Suzhou Creek be more
effective. It was suggested during the period of strategy study that, in addition to
engineering construction, some other measures should be adopted.  For example,
wastewater from factories should be pre-treated before discharging; administration of
navigation and loading and unloading in docks should be strengthened. Now the project
is completed, but all these measures have not been fully adopted, and this affects the
effectiveness of treatment for the Suzhou Creek. With the economic development of
Shanghai in recent years, some tributaries of the Suzhou Creek is further polluted, and the
comprehensive treatment of the Suzhou Creek should be continued.



SIIANGIIAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
INCOAIE STATrAIENrf                                  1993           1994           1995            1996            1997           1998            1999            2000           2001            2002            2003
VW
Sewer revenuie                                      73,060        76.510        101,968         312,781         471,174        5317.243        612,013         66118,84      1,021.676       1,045,563       1,182,376
SMWC Public Utility Additional Tax                       0             0         4 5840          52,167          58,545         64.377          70,169          76,051          22,242          88,946         96,208Z
OPERLATING RVNE73,060                                             76,510  -     149,808      -385)152           529,719        601.620  -- 702,184             744,935       1,103,917       1,134.509  - 1.279.835;
Personnel                                            7,7 18       20,326         38.1 52         42.196          45,782          51)366          58,483         62,109          66,301          70,412         75,451
chemicas                                                 0             0               0              0               0               0               0              0               0               0               0
Utiilitie                                           12,979        23.418          34,968         42,562          48.412          61,125          78,930         90,892         104,759         117,529         137,026
Materials                                           26,464        53,857          87,692         98,816         109.170         121,870         184,274        197,146         210,905         225.612        264,242
Taues                                                    0             0               0          12,111         17,433          19,878          23.385         24,749          37.802          38.686          43,748
other                                               66,587        97,924          61,500         68.019          73.800          78.966          84,099         899,313         94,851         100,731         106,977            -
Lems:ecapitatired                                        0             0               0               0              0               0               0               0              0               0               0
OPERtATING EXPENSE SUBTOTAL                        113,748       195,525        222,3 12        263.926         294.598         335,205        429,170         464,208         514.618         552,970         627 443
_ _   _ _                                     ---,------~~      ~~~                   ~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~- - -------------- -   -------- - - ,- - - - - . - - - - - - ~ ~     ~       1 .
OPEtVIENIUE LESS E.XPENSrI SUBTOTAl.               (40,6801)    (119.015)        (72.504)        121.227        235.121         266,415         273,014        280,726         389,300         581,339         651,140
Losuseon Receivables                                     0             0           2.079           6.656          9,423          10,745          12,640          13.378         20,414          20.911          23,648            -
-- -- -   - -- -- -  -- --   . .. .. .  -- -- --      .. .. ..           -.---------      -----
OPEPATING EXPENSE                                  113,748       195,525         224.191        2 70,581        304,021         34 5,949        441,811        4 77,586        535,031         573,882         651,091
Prour period adjustments                                 0
INCOMEIBEFOR1E DEPRECIATION                        (40,688)     (I119,01 5)      (74,183)       114,571         22 5,698        255,670        260.373         267,349         568,866         560,628         627,493
Depreciidion                                        21,838        20,192          74,378         150,593        186,554         216.542         253,844        384,626         512,487         531,712         593,047            i
--.. ..-... . .. ... .. .. .--- -- -. .--- - -. .-- --   --..  -.. .. . .-... . .   .. . .. . .. . ..-. .                                              -   --- - --  
OPERLATING INCOME                                  (62,526)     (139.207)       (148.961)        (16.022)        39.1411         39,129           6,529       (117.278)         56,379           8,916          34,445
Intferes espense                                    33,250        45,1 30         44.513         60.043          01,517         101.473         127,496         149,610        157,318         151,797         147,21I5
Commitment fees                                          0             0             9731         13,011          10,61'?         7.216           8,469           5,8159          3,730          2.868          15,501
Stornwater contributilon                           610,339       109.340          52.243          59,129         65,131          74,102          95,360         103,273        112.052         120,857         137,168
SMG Subsidies                                       31.250        45,430         189KW1           32.000               0                              0               0               0              0               0
Non-operating revenue                                6,04 7        4,813           4,081           5,399           5,8 57         6,268           6,675           7,089           7,529           7,995          8,491
-          .      . . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .,... . .. .-.-.. .. .. . .. . .. .-... . .. . .. ..  _  . .. .. . .. . .. .. .   . . .. .-                                - --- -- -
NET INCOME                                           5,880       (25,034)         51.679         (12,568)         17,988         10.809         (27,391)       (162.384)         14.911        (16,897)         17,387



SIIANGII %I MUNICIPAL. SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
DAIANCE SHEET                                          1993          1994            1995             1996            1997            1998            1999            2000            2001            2002            2003
Fixed assets                                       791,473        779.0(14      4.064.504       5.267.06.5      6.142,211        7063.535        11,375,987     14.894,822      16.032.209      i7,243,620      18.507,375
Accumsulated deprmciation                           121,847       144.039         218.417         369.010         555,564         712,1 05       1.02 5,949      1.4 10.576      1.923.063       2.474,775       3.067,022
Net fixed assets                                    657,626       635,76,5      3.846, 007      4.898.855       5,506.647       6,291.4 30       7.349,938      1 3.484.24 7    14,109,147      14,768,846      15.439.553
Work in progress                                  2,250,630     3.006,161        1.5 180661     2.49 7.400      3,3088100        4,633,300       5,513.600         667,400       1,420.000       1,720,300       2.554,900
Othser long termtasscts                                   0              0               0               0               0               0               0               0                0               0               0
Ulnrestricted cashr                                  3 1,020       42,8 2 I         8 7,96.7       151.7 53       200,900          437,572         600,606         735,021         966,025       1,211,455        1.537,261
Deposistt                                                 0              0               0               0               0               0               0               0                0               0               0
Accountos receivable                                  7,917          4.92.1          7,003           6.656           9,42 3         10,74 5         12,640          1 3.378         20,4 34         20,911          23,648
PNovisiots for dotablful receivables                      0              0          (2.079)         10,735)        (10,159)        (20,903)        (4 1,544)       (54,921)         (75,3 55)      (96.266)       (119,914)
Inventory                                             8.606          0,(177         13.0 17         14.6'l1         16,230          10,416          27,396          29,3 10         3 1.356         33,542           39,285
Other cxttrren assets                                 1,634          1,4 72          1,670           1.056l          2.014           2.155           2,295           2.4 37           2.588           2.749           2.919
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                                 50,053         57.2327        107(600         166.72 .        290,417         4.79,984        601,393         72 5.225        945,047        1,172,391       1,483.199 
---   - --   - ---    ----   -    - -   -- -   --- ---- ----  --- ----- ---- ---   -----  -    - ---- ---   - ---    --- ---- ---   - -  -     -   - -    _ -- ---- _ --- ----    --- ---- ----
TOTAL ASSETS                                      2,958.313     3,699,15 3       5,49Z.340       7.562.479       9,265,164      11.364,714      13.464.931      14.8 76,071      16,474,994      17,661,536      19.477,652                               00
Accounts payable                                     25,041        4 3,907          46.23 7         5 2. 570        58,093          66,272          87,197          94,741         103,067         111,443          127,604
Long fermtdebt0,cuffenl                              86,803        86.003           86.803          86.803          86,803          86,803         106.803         316,803         316,803         316,803         386,803
Shotitesstloass                                           0              0               0               0               0               0               0                0                               0               0
Other cufrent liabilities                             9,734          1.1.31         70.000          II .(60         12.000          12.840          13,675           14,523          15,423          16,319          17,395
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES                           12 1,578       13 1.921        143,040         150.441         156,896         165,915         207,67 5        426,066         435,293         444,625          531,802
L.rng tcrrm debl,Iotrg tennm           81.934                     972,676        1.02 5.11 7     1.430.5 26      1.666,707       2,032,236       2,4 50,4 21     2,409,667        2,456,742      2,254,766        2,183,330
Vrpo'ils                                                  0              0               0               0               0               0               0                0               0               0               0
TOTAl. L.IABILITfIES                                940,512      1,104.54 7      1.160.157      17500.967        1,023.603       2,90.,152       2.666.095       2,91 5,2 34     2.092.036        2,699,390       2.7 15,132
I 9wty'                                           2.017,801      2,594,606       4,32 3,991      5,901.512       7,44 1.560      9, i66,562     10,798,016      11,961,130    i13,582,950        14,962.146,    16,762.520
Other                                                     0              0               0               0               0               0                0               0               0               0               0>
-- -----.............          --- --.....     . . ---------   -   ---  .        - ---------. --.. . . -- .----- ---        ---- ------------.- -.-   .-----.. .
TOTAL EQUITY ANT) LIABILITES                      2.958.3 13     3.699.1 53      5.492.1408      7.562.4 79      9,265,164      11.364.7 14     13.464,931      14,876,871       16,474,994      17,661,536      19,477,652               ~
Equjity + L.iabililies - Assels                           0              0               0               0               0               0                0              (01             (0)              0               0



SIIANGHAI MUNICIPAI. SEIVERAGE COMPANv, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Yooo                                            IS93        I99J          1995          1996          l"7           199S          1999          2000          2001          1002          2003
Incoanebeforedqwecialion                     (40,688)    (119p01S)      (74.583)     114.571       225,698       255,670       260,371       267,349       56t,t66       560,628       627,493
SMGStrmwateContuibution                       60,359      109,340       52,243        59.129        65,134        74,102        95.360       103,273       112.052       120.857        137,168
SMGSubsid(a                                   33.250      45,110        189.000       32,000             0             0             0             0             0             0             0
Non-operMi,g income                            6.047       4,833         4,881         5.399         5,857         6,268         6.675         7,089         7,529         7,995          8.491
INTERNALCASHIGENERATION                       58,963      40,288        171,542      21;1.099      296.688       336,040       362,403       377,711       68S,446       689,480       773,152
Amoulizalion                                  86,801      86,801        86,S01        8(6,803       86,803        86,803        86,803       106.803       316,803       316,803       316,803
Inacrestexpense                               33,250      45,130        44,513        60.0t1       81,537       101,473       127,486       149,610        157.318      151,797        147,215
Commitmal fees                                    0            0           971         13,031        10,609        7,216          8,469         5,859         3,730        2,868         15.503
TOTALDEDTSERVICE                             120,05!      131,931       112.2S7       159.877       171t,949      195.492      222,758       262.271       477,851       471.463       479,521
Workintg aital  d                              9,155      (14,177)        5.233       (11 105)      (10.139)      (14.208)      (18.861)      (17.293)      (13.540)      (25,544)      (28.704)
CONTRhIBUTIONTOINVESTMENr                    (70,240)     (77.468)      .14.021       62.127        127,87S       154,756       158,511       132.732       229.136       243,557       322.336
_ .                                                         __...  ..... --.----.. .------- -  .....    ......  ............  _          --_-_ *   *- - -  ---    ---
Capital ecpendulure                          846,631     753,362      1.817,200     2.162.100     1,765,0.16    2,166,525     2,192,652     1,672,735     1,890,787     1,510,911     2,098.354
Purchase(Sak)lng lcin assets                      0            0             0             0             0             0             0             a             0             0             0
Capitalied interest                                0           0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0              0
TOTAL INVESTMENTCOSTS                        U46,631     753,362      1.817.200     2,162,100     1,765,046     2.166,525     2,192,652     1.672,735     1,990,767     1,510.911     2,098,354
REQUIREDFINANCING                            916,S71     831,330      1.781.179     2.99.7713     1.637,168     2,011,769     2,034,141     1,540,003     1,661,651     1,267.354     1,776.019
.    ......  -    --------    -     -  -    ---------  -   -    -   -   --------   -    -----    -   -------------------   ------------------  -------------------  -    -   ---_  -    ----  -----   -------------  -   --   ----- _   _   .   _ -   -- -  -
Ioans                                        274,231      240,495       139,494       492,012       322,984       452,332       532,937       348,049       283,878       114,826       315,367
IkpDnils                                          0            0             0             0             0             0             0             0              0            0             0
F4uily&resencscool,,butions                  657,187     601,819      1,677.706     1.670.08A     1.412.060     1,714.193     1.659,665     1,324.636     1.606.909     1,396.084     1.782.9t7
TOTAL FINANCING                              931,418      842,334     1,817,21t0    2,162.100     1,765,045     2,166,525     2,192,652     1,672,735     1.890,787     1,510,911     2,093,354
CIIANGEINCASII                                14.547       11,004        34.021        62,327       127,877       154,756       156.511       132,732       229.136       243,557       322.336
_                             .. ..    _.    ..   _ .... . __,.............  _ .__ ............_._._ _ .....- - - - - -_....... ............_..._.__... ..........................._.___..._.



SHANGIIAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
rfr*mRIANCF. Ml)2 CAIN2Sia I                      1"i          1'191         I"s            19% n1n7                     I"                    m                    aa             an             an
, _ _ _ _~~~~.          , ............... ._. ... _ . .......... . . ......_ ..__.. ___........... 
WAIr AMED SF:WAGE
Water-Mud  t.31y)                                1.351        1.400          1,45S         1,501          1,549         1,592          1,629          1.644         1,693          1.724         1,756
6fidSeVSargg8ies                                  835          S17            836            340           P42            U1            U45            847           MI             850            352
W     Ja AtaceiWSa                               2.135        2,237         2.293          2.343          2.390         2,435          2,474         2,49           2,541          2.574         2,608
NillableWaaerwaQmamhisi(Mm3/y)                   2.004        2,052         2,105          2,1S2          2,19h         2,238          2,275         2,291          2.338          2,369         2.400
Pcata BiiMW                                       45%           42%           55%            61%           63%            64%           64%            64%            65%           65%            66%
Actv.Nybifed(M3/y)                                907           t61          1,162         1,147          1,319         1,429          1,463          1,477         1,521          1.550         1,578
Adj.sekdCa2Cecim Raio                             907           863          1,139         1,320          1,361         1,400          1.434         1,447          1,491          1,S19         1.547
FINANCIAL(Ilhiodicatai cwm  nsima koed           2993         1994          1995           1996          1997           29S            1999          2000           2001          2002           2003
vow
(Fpertins grre                                  73.060       76.510        149,SI0      3l5.152         529.719       601,620        702,124       744,935      1,103.917      1,134,509      1.273,583
Opceingi u                                     113.743      195,525       224.391        270.581        304.21       345.949        441,811       477,586        535,051        573,U32       651,091
D er ion                                        21.D3A       20.192        74.378        150.91         1236.554      216.542        253,844       334,626        512,437       551,712        593.047
Dch service                                    120,053      113.931        112.237      1299.77         178,949       191,492        222,758       262,271        477,851        471,463       479.521
SNIWC Pubic tility Tax                               0            0        4i.840           '.t67        S.545        64,377         70,169         76,051        32,242         31,946        96,208                            W
SMG Stomuwen Contribuhion                       60.159      109,310         52,243        59,129         65.134        74,102         95.360        103,273       112,052        120,357       137,163
SMGSubsWidi                                     31,250       45,130        159,000        32,0(X0             0             0              0             0              0              0             0
Non-perating Rcvcnuc                             6,047        4,833          4.R2I         5.199          5,857         6,268          6,675          7,089         7,529          7,9s          8,491
SNiG Contributiions 4 Non-opeating Revenuie     9,656       159.103       246.125         96,52R         70,990        50,370        102,035        110,362       119,580       122,852         145,659
Opcraingrevenue 4 Stbsidies+ Other Incomne    172,716      235,813        395.933       481,630        600,709       632,989        804.219       855,297       1,223,493     1,263,362      1,424,243
It  comverage objeciive                        269.817      367.018       396t364        478.421        536,655       600.090        731,396       818,539       1,156,257     1,286,790      1,274,468
Debtawrvicecoverageralio                          0.49         (231           1.30           1.32         1266            1.72          1.63           1.44           1.44          1.46           1.61
Operating Expnse + Debt Service                233,801      327.458        156,678       430,458        482,970       541,442        664,569       739,858       1,012,902     1,045,349      1,130.611
Opeating Expense + Depreciation                135,536      215.717       293,769        421.174        490,575       562,491        695,655       862,213       1,047,533     1,125,594      1,244,138
MaxmofO&M+ Dep'n orO&M + Debt Service          233,801      327.458       356,673        430.453        490.575       562.491        695,655       362,213       1,047,538     1,125.594      1,244,13
Operating Expense+ Depreciation + Debt Servi   255,639      347,650       431,057        581,051        669.574       757,983        912.413      1,124,484      1,525.359     1,597,061      1,723,659
Capital Contribution (% 3 year rolling average)     0%           0%            0%             0%             S%            5%             5%            5%            10%            10%           10%
Capital Contribition                                 0            0             0              0         3(9S'        102,070        100,532         95,936       169,148       123,335        210,238
Cash Expenses +Capiial Co;trtibulion Objecliv  233,801      327.1sR        1512415       441.S61        594.6 I'      657,721        783,961       853,086       1,200,590     1,254,229      1,369,554
Rate of returai objecfive                       33,377       32,335        112,046       218,624        262,115       296,952        341,034       520,855        689,335        721,950       755.210                            z
Op. Exp+ Deprt+ Debt Servicc  RoR              289,016      379.985        543.103       799,674        931,6(    .  1,054,935      1,259,447     1,645,339      2,215,224     2,319.011      2,478,369                           z
-   - -- -    - -- -- .   . .. .. .. .. .   .. ... .   .. .. ..   . ... .. ..   . .. .   ..



Sliangihai Municipal Scvcrage Comipany - Financial Projections
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2                         1993          1994          1995           1996          1997           1993           1999          2000          2001           2002           2003
FINANCIAL (all indicators current unless noted)
Intenmal Cash Generation                        58,968       40,288       171,542        211 t99       296,688        336,040       362,408        377,71 1       688.446       689,480        773,152
Increase inWorkingCapital                       (9.155)      14,177         (5,211)       11.105         10,139        14,208         18,861        17.293         18,540        25,544         28,704
Cash Balnce                                     31,820       42,874        87,961        151,751        280,908       437,572        600,606       735,021        966,025      1,211,455      1,537,261
Opcrating income, aAer deprcciation            (62,526)    (139,207)     (148,961)        16.(0272)      39.144        19,129          6,529       (117,278)       56,379          8.916        34.445
Net income, afkerdeppeciation                    3,880      (25.0 1.)      51.679        (12 568)        17 989        10.809        (27,391)     (162,384)        14.911        (16,897)       17,387
Rateofreturn                                      5 6%         3 1.         4 3%           1 4%           2 1.         2 0%           1 6-.        -0 I-1          1 3%           1.0%           1.2%
Capital expenditures                           846.631      751.8(2      1,817,200     2,162 tOO      1,7(6.04e.    2,166,525      2.192,652      1,672.715     l,890.787      1,510,911     2,098,351
Capital expenditures (real terms)              994,791      753,062      1,S94.01s      1.714.809     1,290.227      1.480,097     1,406,522      1,010,368      1,075.401      809,174       1,058,175
Long ter,n borrowing                           274,211      240.495        139,494       492.012        322,984       452,332        532.987       348,049        283,878        114.826       315,367
DebtOulstanding                               905,737     1,059.429      1,112.120      1,517.329     1.753,510     2,119.039      2,565,224      2,806,470     2,773,545      2,571,569     2,570,133
Average Triff(V/m3)                               0.08         0 09           0 09          0 35           0 35          0 38           0 44           0 46          0 69           0 69          0.76
Average Tariff. incl SMWC Public Utility Tax      008          0 09           0.13          0 29           0 39          0 43           0.49          0 51           0 74           0 75          0 83
5yearrollingaverage                               010          015           019            025            012           0.40           046           0.53           061            0.70          080                           '
Real terms tariff                                 0 09         0 09          0 08           0 28           0 25          0 26           0 28           0.28          0 39           0.37          0 39
Average (cash)cost per init collected (V/m3)      0 13         0 23           0 19          0 20           0 22          0.24           0.30           0 32          0 35           0 37          0 41
Average costper nitcollected inc. depreciation    015          025            026           031            0.35          039            048            058           069            0.73          079
SKMG Contributions - Slonmwales + Other         93,609      154.470       241.243         91.129         65.114        74,102         95,360        103,273       112,052        120,857        137,168
SNIG Contribulions - Stortnwater + Other (V/m     0 10         0 18           0 21          0 07           0 05          0 05           0 07           0 07          007            0.0S           0 09
SMIG Contributions - Stormwater + Other (real t  109,991    154,470       211,617         72,276         47,612        50,624         61,170        62,379         63,730         64,725        69,172
SMWC Public Utility Tax (real terms)                0             0         40,210        41,534         42,796        43,980         45,012        45,936         46,776         47,635        48,516
Wolking ratio                                      1 6          2 6            1.5           0.7            0.6            0 6           0 6            0.6           0.5            0 5            0 5
Operatingratio                                     1 9          2.8            2 0            1.1           0 9            0 9            1 0           1.2            0 9           1.0            1.0
Cunren ratio                                       0 4          0 4            0 8            1 1           1 9            2 7           2.9            1.7            2.2           2.6            2 8
Contribution to invesiment                       -83%        -103%            1.9%          29%            7 25          71%            72%            7.9%          12.1%         16.1%          15.4%
Contribution lo inesiment (3 yr average)        -9.8%        -648           2.2%          33%            613%           76%           7.9%           6.9%          13.S%         133%           15.3%
Accounltseeeeivable/Average monthly nlcs           1.3          08             10            0.6            07             0.9           10             1.2            1.1            13            1.5
DebLffDbte4-E"uity) rtio                          29%           27-.           19%           19%           1R5.          18%            19%            17%           15%            13%            12%
Price deflalor                                    LI18         I n0           0 88          0 79           0 71          0 68           0 64           0.60          0.57           0.54           0.50
_ _ _ _   _ _      _   _   _  _   _   _        ..~~~~~~~~~-        --        --   -------- --.-------      -- --- -- -            ..    .   -   -     -
kt






IBRD 20201
|:~~~~ -o'-  ,       :
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~- as                                                                                  .'  ..
_ o a _ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~         - --   -0J,\ AqL
1tlP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '  >  Wson
W..~~~~.
,,0,~~ ~          ~~~ ~                                                                                       Zh, Gc,wo
SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,                                                                       Io n        ____-____  .,,
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~        ~        ~~~         ~        ~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CO .e. PU,-0 .,800-o;  0 9 , o
----------                                                                                    0   T-8  C - -   l3  X
X n  -@ k - 7                      -               <0,1                                  ~                                       ISOeCOC _,,  A}/' h
<,-.-.-    J                        i-                          J - '-        I                       i000 SE. SYI
0  X                                                                          z   w-z-m~~~~~~~~~s--z
A\   vo cw \                \     \:-                                              .        ? 3 
I            e W                                                                                _______MIW___
:. T7.~~~~~









I HAGTI N;:r
Repcr t. No:         1 584e
Ty pe:  ICR



