Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1779 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Shanghai Sewerage Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 23, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1779 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 23, 1987, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty five million dollars ($45,000,000) (the 
Loan);
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Municipality of Shanghai 
(hereinafter referred to as Shanghai) with the Borrower's assistance, and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Shanghai the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS alia, of the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Shanghai" means the Municipality of Shanghai, a political subdivision of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (as modified), as applied to such 
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Shanghai of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2 02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"Company" means Shanghai Sewerage Company, a state owned enterprise 
established pursuant to its Charter;
(f)
"Charter" means the Company's Charter, dated March 21, 1987;
 
(g)
"Registration Regulations" means  the Provisional Regulations on 
Registration and Control of Corporations approved by the State Council of the Borrower 
on August 14, 1985 (State Document No 120-85);
(h)
"Transfer and Operations Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between Shanghai and the Company pursuant to Section 2 09 of the Project 
Agreement; and
(i)
"SSPCC" means the Shanghai Sewerage  Project Construction Company 
referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-eight million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 78,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule l to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank, and on terms and conditions, satisfactory to the 
Page  3
Association Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be cancelled
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid  (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 
15, 1997, and ending March 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on March 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Shanghai to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Shanghai therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shanghai 
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit and the Loan to Shanghai under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Shanghai pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shanghai shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Shanghai will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Company to perform 
any of the obligations under the Transfer and Operations Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Company, or for the 
suspension of the operations.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified ln paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved this Agreement;
 
(b)
the Company has been duly registered in accordance with the Registration 
Regulations; and
(c)
all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Shanghai, and is legally binding upon Shanghai in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the Purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  5
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of such proceeds 
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category:
                  Amount        Amount
                  of the        of the
                  Credit         Loan         % of
                 Allocated     Allocated    Expendi-
                (Expressed    (Expressed     tures
                  in SDR       in Dollar     to be
   Category     Equivalent)   Equivalent)   Financed
Page  6
(1) Civil      23,700,000     10,000,000     40%
    works
(2) Equipment  43,600,000     31,000,000     100% of
    and mate-                                foreign
    rials                                    expendi-
                                             tures, 100%
                                             of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory
                                             cost) and
                                             75% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             for other
                                             items pro-
                                             cured locally
(3) Consultants'3,800,000       ________     100%
    services and
    overseas
    training
(4) Unallocated 7,800,000      4,000,000
    TOTAL      78,900,000     45,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1 
million, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1987.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to improve environmental quality in 
Shanghai waterways through the removal of industrial and domestic waste water; and 
(ii) to establish and develop institutions for providing sewerage services and 
protecting the environment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Construction of a link and intercepting sewer system to collect and transport 
waste water to the estuary of the Changjiang for disposal, including:
1.
about 35 km long trunk intercepting sewer, with two pump stations;
 
2.
about 32 km of link sewer, with 8 pump stations;
 
3.
a screening plant;
 
4.
about 2.6 km of outfall tunnels;
Page  7
5.
alteration to about 44 existing pump stations on link sewer system; and
 
6.
provision of vehicles and equipment.
 
Part B:
Carrying out the following studies:
1.
a management and organization study to determine the organizational and staffing 
needs of the Company; 
2.
a sewerage tariff study;
 
3.
a river basin management study of the Huangpu River for the purpose of setting 
up the
institutional framework for water resources allocation and waste discharge control; 
and
4.
a study to examine economic ways of rehabilitating the existing sewer-pipe 
system in Shanghai.
Part C:
Carrying out a comprehensive training program for the staff of the Company and 
SSPCC.
*  *  *
The protect is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits"', published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, China may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance 
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
   Contracts for: (i) civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3 million 
per contract, and aggregating not more than $30 million equivalent; and (ii) equipment 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $270,000 per contract, and aggregating 
not more than 5 million,
may be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Page  8
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each: (i) civil works contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of more than $6 million; and (ii) contract for equipment estimated to cost 
the equivalent of more than $2 million, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, that where payments 
for such contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be 
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract required 
to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix l to the Guidelines, together  with the other information 
specified therein, shall be furnished as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 (the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure Such contracts shall be 
retained, in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix l 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the studies under Part B of 
the Project; and (ii) Project design and construction, the Borrower shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
2.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) as set 
forth in the table in paragraph l of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
7,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to the Association that 
Page  9
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account 
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account or from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement or 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of 
Article V of the Bank's General Conditions and Section 2.02 of 
the 
Loan Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated 
to the
eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the 
respective General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall be equal to 
the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  10
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the 
Credit Account or Loan Account, as the case may be.
