Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1779 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2794 CHA
Project Agreement
(Shanghai Sewerage Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI
Dated November 23, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1779 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 2794 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 23, 1987, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI (Shanghai).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 78,900,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that Shanghai agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on conditions that Shanghai 
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS Shanghai, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the 
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term 
"Bank's General Conditions" means the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Shanghai declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Shanghai shall maintain the SSPCC, established for the purposes of 
carrying out the Project, with staff, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Shanghai shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. Shanghai shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the Bank's General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Shanghai shall, at the request of the Association or the Bank, 
exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Shanghai shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by 
Shanghai of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Shanghai shall carry out the training under Part C of the Project 
in accordance with a program acceptable to the Association and the Bank, and shall 
complete such training not later than December 31, 1990.
Section 2.08. Shanghai shall carry out a resettlement program, for persons 
affected by the
Project, acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Page  3
Section 2.09. For the purposes of operating and maintaining the works and 
facilities completed under the Project, Shanghai shall, not later than December 31, 
1991, enter into a Transfer and Operations Agreement, satisfactory to the Association 
and the Bank, with the Company. A draft of such Agreement, including the terms, 
conditions and financial arrangements, shall be submitted to the Association and the 
Bank, not later than December 31, 1990 for the Association's and the Bank's review and 
comments.
Section 2.10. Shanghai shall: (i) under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, carry out, not later than December 31, 1988, the study on 
the management and organization of the Company under Part B.1 of the Project; (ii) 
review the findings of this study with the Association and the Bank; and (iii) 
thereafter implement the findings of the study.
Section 2.11. (a) Shanghai shall: (i) under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank, carry out, not later than December 31, 1988, the sewer 
tariff study under Part B.2 of the Project; (ii) review the findings of this study 
with the Association and the Bank not later than June 30, 1989; and (iii) thereafter 
implement the findings of the study.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) above, the sewerage 
charges agreed with the Association and the Bank, for commercial and industrial 
consumers, shall continue to be implemented. 
Section 2.12. Shanghai shall, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, carry out, not later than December 31, 1988, the river basin 
management study under Part B.3 of the Project, and shall review the findings of the 
Study with the Association and the Bank.
Section 2.13. Shanghai shall, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, carry out, not later than December 31, 1989, the study on 
the economic ways of rehabilitating the existing sewer pipe system under Part B.4 of 
the Project, and shall review the findings of the study with the Association and the 
Bank.
Section 2.14. Shanghai shall enact, not later than December 31, 1988, Pollution 
Control Regulations and Sewer Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shanghai shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition in respect of the activities related to the 
Project; and (ii) cause the Company to maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
conditions.
(b)
Shanghai shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, including 
the Special 
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, including the Company's 
financial statements, in such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association and the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof and said 
records, as the Association and the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
 
Page  4
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
Shanghai shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's and the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records; 
and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the proceeds of 
the Credit withdrawn in respect of such expenditures 
were used for the 
purposes for which they were provided.
Section 3.02. Shanghai shall cause the Company, not later than December 31, 
1988, to complete and incorporate in its records an inventory and valuation of its 
fixed assets.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Shanghai shall cause the Company to produce for each of its fiscal years after its 
fiscal year ending on 1992, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its 
(i) total operating expenses; and (ii) the amount by which debt service requirements 
exceed the provision for depreciation.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, Shanghai shall cause the 
Company, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Company and satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank:  (i) to review whether it would meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year; and 
(ii) to furnish to the Association and the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Company would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for the Company's fiscal years covered by such review, 
Shanghai shall cause the Company to promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to 
meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net
non-operating income. 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to
operations.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations,
Page  5
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line 
basis at a rate of 
not less than 2.5% per annum of the average current 
gross value of the 
Company's fixed assets in operation, or other 
basis acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank, but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of the Company's fixed assets in 
operation 
shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the 
gross value of the Company's 
fixed assets in operation at the 
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, 
as valued from time to 
time in accordance with sound and consistently 
maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and 
other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Shanghai shall cause the Company not to incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the 
Company for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a 
later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the 
greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements 
of the Company for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Company, including 
the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Company maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification 
of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date 
the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to
take account of the Company's sewerage rates in effect at 
the time of 
the incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during the 
twelve month period to which such revenues 
relate, and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
Page  6
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and 
other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and Shanghai thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement, or the Loan Agreement or both of 
said Agreements terminate in accordance with their terms before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association, or the Bank, or both, as the case 
may be, shall promptly notify Shanghai of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit 
Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Page  7
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Shanghai:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jiu Jiang Road
Shanghai, China
Telex:
33062 BOCSH
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanghai, may 
be taken or executed by the Deputy Mayor in charge of urban construction or such other 
person or persons as such Deputy Mayor shall designate in writing, and such Deputy 
Mayor shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karosomanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI
By /s/ Hou Xu
Authorized Representative
Page  8
