Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7360
PROJECT C01G!ETION REPORT
INDONESTA
CENTRAL JAVA PULP AIID PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2199-INS)
June 30, 1988
Industry Department
This document bus a resicted distibudon and may be ed by recipients only in the performance of
their r,ffAdal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal               US$1 : Rp 625
Intervening (Average)  US$1 : Rp 871
Completion (Average)   US$1 : Rp 1,118
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS        -  National Planning Agency
Basuki Rachmat  -  Perum Kertas Basuki Rachmat, a public sector
paper mill in East Java
DGBCI           -  Director General for Basic Chemical Industries
GOI             -  Government of Indonesia
KKA             -  P.T. Kertas Kraft Aceh
KKC             -  P.T. Kertas Kraft Cilacap
Perhutani       -  Perum Perhutani, the State Forest Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



TON  OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE W ORLD SANK
Wasungton DC 20433
USA
OUt. di Out.ctw.Gw
Opmatanit EvisMu-
June 30, 1988
MEMWRANDMW TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Central Java Pulp
and PaPer Engineering Prolect (Loan 2199-INS)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Central Java Pulp and Paper
Engineering Project (Loan 2199-INS)" prepared by the former Industry
Department. As a result of the reorganization the PCR was reviewed
by the Asia Regional Office. Purther evaluation of this project by the
Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Yves Rovani
by Graham Donaldson
Attacbment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by r4cip1ents only in the performanc
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authoration.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2199-INS)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........**ses.........**...........e    i
BASIC DATA SHEET ..................................................
HIGRLIGHTS *...6.0.0 *-00.-                            - 06000000        iii
I. INTRODUCTION ..... . ........... *            ..0..... .     ..........    1
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND                      .....                         1
A. Project Preparation, Approval and Effectiveness ..........    2
B. Project Description and Objective                                 2
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT  4..** .................    4
A. Achievement of Project Objectives                                 4
B. Project Management                     ....                       5
C. Trannga                i      n      i      n      g,......................  6
D. Use of Censultants                                                6
E. Implementation Schedule                                           6
F. Project Cost and Disbursement .............................    7
IV. BANK PERFORMANCE .......*...........                                  8
V. LESSONS LEARNED .....        .........................................   10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2199-INS)
PREFACE
This Report covers an Engineering Project to fiLnan( technical
assistance and studies for the Central Java Pulp and Paper Mill in
Indonesia. The Engineering Project was to carry out the detailed project
preparation activities for the construction of the Central Java sill and to
Identify the sector development strategy and restructuring program within
which the Central Java mill would operate.
This Project Completion Report has been prepared by the Industry
Department based on information in the Project File, knowledge of staff and
discussions with those who were associated with the Project.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft
report to the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- iL -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2199-INS)
BASIC DATA SWE%T
Key Prolect Data
Original       Disbursed        Cancelled        Repayment        Outstandinl
5.5             1.5             4.0                                1.
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
FY84          FY85           FY86
1     2       1      2       1     2
Planned    0.10  2.00    4.10  5.50    5.50  5.50
Actual     0.59  i.03    1.26  1.39    1.47  1.47
Other Data
Original        Actual
Board Approval                                09/21/82
Loan Agreement                                11/18/82
Effectiveness                                 05/02/83
Closing Date                 09/30/84         09/30/86
Completion                   05/31/84         06/30/86
Mission Data
Date of
Month/Year     Weeks      Persons      Manweeks     Report
Preparation         11/80           3          3             9         12/17/80
Preparation         06-07/81       4           3            12        08/06/81
Preappraisal        02-03/82        3          3             9        03/19/82
Supervision         12/82          2           1             2        01/25/83
Supervision         02/83           1          2             2        04/18/83
Supervision         11/83          2           1             2        12/05/83
Supervision         05/84          2           2             4        05/29/84
Supervison          10/84          3           3             9        11/07/84
Supervision         06/85          2           2             4        08/29/85



- ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA - CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 299-INS)
HIGHLIGHTS
i.        In agreement with the recommended strategy for the long-term
development of the pulp and paper subsector, the Government of Indoneeia
(GOI) and tha Bank prepared for the construction of a sack kraft paper mill
in Central Java to produce about 106,000 tpy of sack kraft paper. The
preparation work was to be implemented in two phases: Phase I -
engineering, at" Phase II - c-onstruction. A loan of US$5.5 million was
approved in 19E2 to finance the engineering phase, consisting mainly of
consulting services (i) to carry out a detailed engineering study for the
integrated mill and prepare for the mill construction project (e.g.,
documentation for procuirement, financing plan); (ii) prepare for the wood
supply arrangeaents, including training of Indonesian staff; and
(iii) undertake a sector study to identify development restructuring
actions and policy measures to ensure a rational long-term development of
the pulp and paper industry in the country.
ii.       GOI created a company, PT Kertas Kraft Cilacap (KKC), to
implement the Engii^,ering Project and eventually operate the Central Java
mill with the supprt of qualified technicians from an existing public
sector paper mill experienced in wood raw material. A Japanese paper
company was appointed as technical advisor to KKC. Together, they have
prepared detailed engineering design of the KKC mill as well as draft
bidding documentation. These were reviewed by Bank staff who were also
active In discussing the mill's financing plan with GOI. A long-term wood
supply arrangement -'as agreed in principle between KKC and Perum Perhutani,
the state forest corporation. Selection of the technical consultants to
design the first phase of an optimal wood-cutting plan was, however, not
carried out due to unresolved issues on the KKC project (para 3.01).
lii.      These preparation activities were however interrupted in 1985,
-two years after the effectiveness of the engineering loan because there was
a serious difficulty in locating private domestic and foreign investors.
Several avenues were explored including the use of a portion of Bank funds
to close the equity gap and possible IFC participation. As one possible
means of attracting investors, the Bank recommended that GOI encourage mill
partnership to the private sector wherein such private partner would have
had actively participated in mill operation and decision-making.
iv.   '   GOI finally succeeded in reviving an old project idea of a sack
kraft mill in Aceh, Sumatra, after several years of stop-and-go
negotiations with different equipment suppliers on the project's financing
plan. The GOI's keenness in setting up the Acch mill was based essentially



-iv -
on a broader political objective of developing the area of Aceh in
particular, and the island of Sumatra in general. Although the Bank was
not invited by GOI to review the Aceh project proposal, the Bank had
repeatedly advised GOI that the limited market prospects for saek kraft do
not justify building two sack kraft mills in the country at the same time,
and that to go ahead with Aceh would mean a Bank withdrawal from the KKC
project. As GOI disagreed with the Bank's market assessment, it
commissioned, with Bank agreement, the Japanese technical advAsor to KKC to
urdertake a sack kraft market study.
v.        As the findings of this market study confirmed the need for only
one sack kraft mill in Indonesia at that time, GOI requested the Bank to
consider KKC as a mill with a different product mix, namely bleached
long-fiber pulp, for use by the existing Indonesian paper mills. This
proposed change in project scope led to the commissioning of e new
feasibility study to determine KXC's commercial and economic viability as a
market pulp mill. Just as the results of this second feasibility study
confirmed the viability of a 130,000 tpy long-fiber bleached pulp mill in
Central Java, an existing Indonesian paper mill began planning to build a
similar facility in Sumatra, Indonesia. As in the earlier case with Aceh,
the domestic and export market prospects do not justify building two mills
with the same product mix. The Bank thus decided and advised GOI not to
pursue further wih.h the KKC project.
vi.     The Engineering loan disbirsement was much slower than forecasted
due to the unexpected changes mentioned above, aside from reasons
associated with GOI's disbursement procedures. In fact, the loan was not
fully utilized, with a balance of US$4.03 million finally cancelled on
October 1, 1986, at Bank's recommendation and GOI's request.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDCIESIA - CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2199-INS)
I, INTRODUCTION
1.01      Indonesia has the largest forest resource in Asia and the forest
industry sector is particularly important because of its evormous
potential. It is a relatively labor intensive industry especially if one
considers upstream and downstream linkage effects. There are 30 paper
companies operating in Indonesia, five of which are public sector
companies. Nineteen of these mills have no pulp production capacity and
use primarily imported pulp. Thus more than half of the peper produced
domestically is based on imported pulp. Overall 71% of the fiber in paper
consumed in Indonesia is imported, compared with 10% in Bangladesh, 30% in
India and Korea, and 40% in the Philippines. A major reason for the lack
of backward integration was the existing tariff structure which provided a
high level of protection for paper products and none for pulp. In addition
to being non-integrated, the majority of the existing paper mills also
suffered from serious inefficiencies resulting from their small size and
over-diversified product mix. During the early 1980s, all the existing
mills were experiencing great financial difficulties due to excess capacity
problf-- and wide fluctuations in the pulp and paper prices in the world
market.
1.02      The Indonesian forest industries (pulp and paper and mechanical
wood processing), were among those examined by the Bank in the course of i:s
industrial survey during 1976. Subaequently, in i982/83, the Bank
undertook a review of the pulp and paper industry which called for a
rational long-term development strategy to be based on a sector-wide
restructuring program consisting of rationalization of the existing mills
and investments in viable large scale, integrated pulp and paper production
lines. In both these analyses, the Central Java Project was identified as
one of the potentially viable projects which fits the long-term development
strategy of the pulp/paper sector that would help Indonesia exploit its
natural resou-ces.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Project Preparation, Approval and Effectiveness
2.01      The Central Java Pulp and Paper Project was conceived by the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) as a way of utilizing its long fiber
resoarces in Central Java. The plantation belongs to Perum Perhutani, the
State forestry corporation which manages all the forest resources in Java,
and which has developed the Central Java area into one of the best long
fiber plantations in Indonesia. Perum Perhutani commissioned a Finnish
consultant to carry out prefeasibility studies. These studies, completed
in 1981, indicated the viability of a large scale integrated pulp and paper



-2-
mill to produce 106,000 tpy of sack kraft due to the expected rapid
expansion of cement sack demand and to be located in the Cilacap area. The
sack kraft to be produced for the first time in Indonesia was to be
marketed domestically to cement companies, and to a lesser extent, to
fertilizer and other commodity producers.
2.02      The Bank reviewed the prefeasibility studies in May 1981, and
preappraised the Central Java Project in February/March 1982. Since the
ccuntry had little previous experience in such large scale Integrated mill;
considerable need for technical assistance, during preparation,
implementation and operation, was identified. As such preparation work
would require foreign exchange and take some time to be cerried out, the
Bank recommended that an engineering loan would be an appropriate way to
finance such expenditures through the basic engineering and tendering
phases. The loan was made to GOI, and was to be the vehicle for continued
Bank sector dialogue, specifically regarding the existing paper companies,
with the goal of bringing about the policy and structural changes necessary
to ensure a rational development of the sector as a whole.
2.03      Negotiations were held in Jakarta from July 29-31, 1982.  Since
this is an engineering project, no separate appraisal report was prepared.
The loan was considered by the Board on September 11, 1982, and became
effective on May 2, 1983, after the conditions of effectiveness were
satisfactorily met, n_mely, establishment and Incorporation of a company
(P.T. Kertas Kraft Cilacap - referred to as KKC) to implement and operate
the Central Jav 'Pt'lp and Paper Project (hereafter referred to as the
Project), and the appointaent of engineering consultants and technical
advisors to carry out related services and studies essential to the
implementation of the Project.
B. Project Description and Objective
2.04      The Project consisted of four components:
(a) technical assistance to the KKC staff in carrying out basic
engineering, evaluation of environmental impact, preliminary
civil engineering and procurement assistance for a sack kraft
mill;
(b) technical assistance to Perum Perhutani in developing
wood supply arrangements including logging re-plantation and
transportation program, road design and environment conservation
measures;
(c) a training program for KKC in plant engineering and operation and
other aspectc related to an integrated sack kraft paper mill; and
(d) a restructuring study for the existing pulp/paper mills to
identify business strategies, policy measures and restructuring
actions (including closure, merging of non-viable facilities).



-3-
2.05      The two key objectives of the Project were to:
(a)  prepare for the Central Java Pulp and Paper mill, namely to
confirm its technical, financial and economic viability, ani work
out all the necessary implementation details, Including the
development of a finarncing plan which involves maximum
co-financing and mobilization of non-Government resources and the
development of the wood supply arrangements; and
(b) develop a program for subsector restructuring (including policy
reforms and mill-specific actions) to re-orient the sector
towards its rational long-term development objectives.
2.06     Following standard Bank procedures for selection of consultants, a
Japanese company, hereafter referred to as the KKC Technical Advisor, was
appointed for cimpbnents (a) and (c). It is one of the largest pulp and
paper companies in the world which has an extensive overseas experience in
technical assistance and engineering services, and has substantial kraft
paper production capacity. Because of its extensive experience with steep
slope logging and its previous involvement in a Japanese forestry training
program for Indonesia, the same company was initially also selected to
provide technical assistance to Perum Perhutani (component (b)).
2.07      The Central Java Project would have utilized pines from Perum
Perhutani's concession of about 100,000 ha located in Central Java, out of
which approximately 52,000 ha is under plantation. Based on the estimated
raw material supply, the mill capacity would have been 90,000 tpy of sack
kraft in the beginning, then expanded to 106,000 tpy six years after
startup. The mill would be located in Cilacap, a town of approximately
100,000 in population on the southern coast of Central Java. It is well
located in regard to infrastructure services and the wood supply as well as
product market, with a deep sea port, rorAd and railway connections to the
rest of Java. The project technology to produce this grade of pulp and
paper is well established in the world. Expected to create 700 full-time
jobs in the mill, 2,000 full-time and 8,000 part-time jobs at the
plantation area, the Central Java Project would have been the first
large-scale pulp mill in Indonesia.
2.08      The wood supply was to be based on a long-term contract between
Perhutani and the new company (KKC). The feasibility study and subsequent
review by a Bank forester confirmed thar the designated wood supply area
was adequate to meet the wood requirements of the Project. GOI negotiated
for the wood supply technical assistance with the [same Japanese] Technical
Advisor to KKC, hereafter called Japanese consultant, on grounds of
previous experiences in steep slope wood harvesting and training of
Indonesians for such conditions under Japanese bilateral program. The
contract was signed on February 8, 1983. Staff of both Perhutani and KKC
were to be trained on the job, working closely with the Japanese
Consultant's personnel.



2.09      In agreement with the broad conclusions of the Bank's pulp and
paper sector review (para 1.02), GOI commissioned a restructuring study,
also financed as part of the Engineering Project. This study, was to
(i) formulate detailed mill restruct4cing plan/actions and policy reforms
as needed for the long-term efficient development of the sector; and
(ii) review alternative fiber supplies and market prospects for Indonesian
pulp and paper. A Finnish consulting group with considerable wood and
pulp/paper working experience was selected for this study and the contract
wLs signed in Pecember 1983.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
3.01      The first basic objective concerning KKC was not fully achieved
during project implementation as the original preparatory work was
suspended in early 1985 (some 20 months after effectiveness) when GOI
succeeded in reviving an old project idea of a sack kraft mill in Aceh,
Sumatra, with the financial help of Japanese equipment suppliers. Although
GOI intended for the future Aceh mill to export its output, the Bank was
seriously concerned with the market prospects (both domestic and export)
for two sack kraft mills in Indonesia. As GOI disagreed with Bank views,
the KKC Technical Advisor was therefore commissioned to conduct a market
study for sack kraft. The study confirmed that there was insufficient
market for two sack kraft mills in Indonesia, and GOI requested the Bank to
reconsider the KKC project as a mill for long-fiber bleached kraft pulp
which has been heretofore imported by domestic paper makers. The KKC
technical Advisor was asked therefore to do a feasibility study of KKC as a
market pulp mill. Based on this study (available in July 1985), the Bank
preappraised the new project proposal, and found that it -as financ.ally
and economically justified. As the Bank and GOI were discussing the
financing plan, in particular the need for private equity partner in KKC
(para 3.02), it was learnt by the beginning of 1986 that another long-fiber
pulp mill was being planned by private investors in Lake Toba, Sumatra.
While GOI and the investors maintAined that the output of this Lake Toba
mill is for textile uses and not paper making, the Bank's assessment was
that there would not be sufficfl^nt market for two long-fiber market pulp
mills in the country. The Bank advised GOI of ts intention to withdraw
from the KKC project, a decision which was strengthened subsequently, by
the beginning of 1986, when Government resources for public investment such
as KKC were becoming scarce due to declining oil revenues. The status of
work achieved under the engineering loan by the time the Bank decided not
to pursue with the KXC project is briefly summarized in the next
paragraphs.
3.02      ze technical preparation covering basic engineering and
tender/procurement assistance had advanced to the point of readiness to
initiate procurement for the construction project. The preliminary civil
engineering, project management/legal assistance and training were not
started due to changes in the project sc'pe. The KKC financing plan was an
important issue whict needed to be worked out during implementation of the



engineering loan. The Bank helped GOI analyze the different project
financing alternatives, in particular with regard to equity provision. In
advising GOI to reduce its equity share in the mill to a minimum, Bank
staff have explored the possibility of converting export credit to equity,
issuing convertible bonds, using a portiort of the proposed Bank loan for
equity financing, and promoLing an equity participatio. from IFC and
domestic paper companies. This last alternative would preserve a
meaningful management role for the private partner(s) and allow them
e%entually to expand their mill equity share. GOI and Bank staff have thus
identified several domestic paper mills with growth potential who would
have participated in the mill equity (albeit a small share at the
beginning) and who would be able to assume a significant role in the mill
operations.
3.03      The negotiations of the contract for the wood supply technical
assistance with the Japanese consultant was seriously delayed because the
coniultant did not accept GOI's request to increase the local contract
participation to 50% unless the total contract price was increased to allow
sufficient supervision for work quality. This tendering process was
suspended subsequently to await the outcome of the new KKC feasibility
study.
3.04      The pulp and paper restructuring report was satisfactorily
completed and reviewed by the Bank in November 1984 and its strategic
recommendations accepted by the Dir'etorate General of the Basic Chemical
Industries (DGBCI). Some positive steps taken by GOI towards policy
improvement were the increase in energy prices by about 100%, reduction in
=maximum tariff duties on paper (from 60% to 30%), and setting tht duty for
pulp at 5%. The Bank proposed to design a financial and technical
assistance program to support the implementation of the restructuring
action programs recommended in the report for all the existing potentially
viable paper mills. As the DGBCI indicated that it would be interested in
Bank support for the sector as a whole, including the KKC market pulp mill,
no further Bank follow-up discussion was carried out.
B. Project Management
3.05      The primary executing agency of the Engineering Project is
originally the Project Management Tear within KKC. The Project Management
Team is staffed with experienced personnel from Perum Kertas Basuki
Rachmat, one of the five public sector paper mills in Indonesia which
operates a snail well managed integrated wood based pulp and paper mill in
East Java. Most of this technical staff have received specialized overseas
training in pulp and paper technology. While the KKC staff capabilities
have strengthened during the Engineering Project implementation, these
needed to be complemented with private experienced operator(s) to ensure
full ctmmercial viability for the mill operations. On the wood supply
side, the Perhutani personnel have received training overseas but still
needed considerable field practice and training to ensure an efficient and
effective wood supply to KKC.



-6-
3.06      The Industrial Restructuring Study was executed by DGBCI.  The
DGBCI staff have worked closely with the consultant on the development of a
long-term strategy for the sector, including appropriate policy measures
and restructuring actions (see also para 3.12).
C. Training
3.07      The training components included in the Engineering Project
required prior to the startup of the KKC Project were (i) for KKC - in
plant engineering, mill management and other field related to the pulp and
paper industry, and (ii) for Perum Perhutanl - in wood harvesting (e.g.,
cable logging techniques) and other related wood supply operations. Both
were not carried out and no expenditure was miade against them since no
follow-up was expected for the construction project.
D. Use of Consultants
3.08      Consultancy services were retained for each of the components
of the Engineering project, namely: mill engineering, market study and
restructuring study, and subsequently the revised feasibility study for the
new project scope. GOI and the Bank were satisfied with the performance of
the Japanese consultant (KKC Technical Advisor) for mill engineering as
well as for the feasibility study. Their technical/operational expertise,
extensive presence in the Asian paper market, and knowledge of the Cilacap
mill's technical features allowed some time saving in the finalization of
the contractual arrangements, and resulted in work satisfactorily reviewed
by both GOI and the Bank.
3.09      The Restructuring Study was conducted by the same Fir.nish
consultant who undertook the prefeasibility and feasibility stadies for
Central Java Pulp and Paper Project. As required In its TOR. the
Consultant satisfactorily completed its restructuring study which focussed
mainly on the improvement (through case studies) of a number of existing
paper mills with high potential viability, the possible desirable policy
changes, and their impact on the overall development of the Indonesian pulp
and paper sector. The performance of all consultants was generally
satisfactory.
E. Implementation Schedule
3.10      The major part of the Engineering Project implementation schedule
covers the appointment of consultants for technical assistance and studies.
The TOR for Technical Advisor for mill engineering was reviewed and
approved by the Bank, and the contract signed as expected in February
1983. The TOR for the agreed feasibility study and new market study for
the revised project scope, carried out by the KKC Technical Advisor as an
amendment under the original contract with KIC, was approved in October
1984. The study was completed and the report was reviewed and discussed by
the Bank with GOI in June 1985, as expected.



-7-
3.11      The Technical Assistance for wood supply arrangement was not an
immediate item on the critical path and was only to become necessary in
Spring 1983. It was therefore agreed that employment of the forestry
consultant was to be a dated covenant to be satisfied by February 1, 1983.
Implementation of this component was seriously delayed due to issues
regarding the role of foreign and domestic consultants in the contract
(essentially to identify the local experts, the nature and magnitude of
their participation, the estimated cost associated with their real
coatribution and needed training). Subsequently, the selection process was
suspended pending resolution of major issues related to the KKC mill
project, and finally cancelled with the concellation of the Bank loan.
3.12      Selection of the consultant to undertake the Restructuring Study,
which was to be completed in December 1982, was later revised to April 1983
and September 1983. Propcsals were received by end February 1983 from five
consultants and wists contracted for in December 1983 with the Finnish
consultant. The report was completed on time and reviewed in November 1984
by GOI and the Bank.
3.13      The Engineering loan was extended twice from its original closing
date of September 30, 1984, first to allow examination of the new product
mix proposed for KKC, and second, as the decision on KKC mill was still
pending, to provide time for implementation of the technical assistance to
Perhutani. Ihe loan was finally closed on September 30, 1986.
F. Project Cost and Disbursement
3.14      The total fiiancing requirement of the Engineering Project was
estimated at US$7.8 million during appraisal, of which US$5.5 million was
in foreign exchange, including front end fee. A major part of the loan
covers the services of technical consultants. All consulting services were
estimated to be about 280 man-months at an estimated total cost of
US$3.9 million. In addition to personnel costs (salary, fees, travel,
subsistence), these contract costs covered local transportation, local
office operating expenses and other minor items. About US$500,000 was used
for retroactive financing of the down payment for the Technical Assistance
contract for KIC mill engineering which became effective prior to the loan
signing. Disbursements for consulting services were made against 100X of
foreign expenditures.
3.15      The only goods proposed for financing under the Engineeriag
loan were for office and other equipment to facilitate the Project
Management Team's establishment and operations during project
implementation (US$200,000), and for proprietary spare parts for forestry
equipment to be used by Perhutani in training (US$50,000). No expenditures
were made in these categories.
3.16      The Bank loan ok US$5.5 million was lent at the standard variable
rate of 20 years, including a grace period of five years.



- 8 -
3.17      The cumparison of proposed detailed cost of the Engineering
Project and the corresponding disbursement position are shown below:
Est. Project Cost
For-              Loan   Actual
Local    eign    Total    Alloc.   Dieb.
Basic Engineering   ,                0.21    0.48    0.69
Procurement Assistance               0.50    1.15    1.65
Prelim. Civil Engg                   0.26    0.67    0.93
Proj. Mgt. & Legal Asst.             0.15    0.69    0.84
T.12    2.99    4.11       3.50    1.13
Office & Misc. Equpt                 0.10    0.20    0.30       0.20    -
Study-Wood Supply   i                0.29    0.45    0.74       0.05    -
Training  - KKC/PP                   0.20    0.40    0.60       0.80    -
Restructuring Study                  0.12    0.25    0.37       0.30    0.26
Base Cost                       1.83    4.29    6.12       4.85    1.39
Physical Contingencies               0.25    0.63    0.88
Price Contingencies                  0.22    0.50    0.72
Project Cost                    2.30    5.42    7.72
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                    0.08    0.08      0.08    0.08
Unallocated                                                     0.57    -
Total Financing                 2.30    5.50    7.80       5.50    1.47
Undisbursed Balance - Cancelled                                         (4.03)
3.18      The slow disbursement in the Bank loan was primarily due to
GOI's procurement and disbursement procedures, especially delays in their
contract negotiations and in their processing and subm'.ssion of
disbursement requests. The unatilized balance of US$4.031 million was
cancelled on October l, 1986.
IV. BANK PERFORMANCE
4.01      Given the obvious needs for restructuring the existing pulp and
paper industry and lack of a well-conceived sector-wide plan for its future
development, the Bank played an important role in assisting GOI towards
their solution through the preparatory work for the KKC project as well as
through the sector study and its review process.
4.02      The Bank had spent 32.4 staffweeks on supervising this project.
A lot of this Bank input was necessitated by the fuctamental changes in
project scope (para 3.01). In fact, in supervising the project, Bank staff
have de facto carried out an appraisal of the KKC mill under alternative
product mix and market scenarios. Bank staff were also heavily involved in



- 9 -
the design of the mill financing plan, including the search for possible
private partner for the project. In the context of reviewing the subsector
study, Bank staff have also invested considerable time on strategy and
policy advice to relevan; GOI officials.
4.03      More specifically, in addition to standard Bank review and
approval process for TORs, draft tender documents and contracts, Bank staff
also had extensive discussions with GOI, KKC and their Technical Advisor,
ae well as potential private partners on the procurement arrangements to be
adopted. Guidance was provided to GOI staff on ways to handle the
financing issues in the tendering process, including review of the
prequalification evaluation prepared by the Technical Advisor. On the wood
supply program, the Bank forester evaluated and confirmed the wood supply
requirements of the KKC project and subsequent to GOI's decision to
retender the consultancy services, the Bank reviewed the tender documents,
and lists of international consultants.
4.04      With regard to the pulp and paper sector as a whole, the Bank was
able to reach an agreement in principle with GOI on a long-term strategy,
although it was not able to follow up with a financing and technical
assistance program to help implement the needed sector restructuring due to
insufficieut GOI interest at that time. Nevertheless, the Bank was
instrumental in focussing GOI's attention regarding the long-term subsector
development strategy, as a result of which some needed policy reforms were
implemented.  With regard to the KKC project, in spite of the final
decision not to go ahead with the construction project, the Bank succeeded
in ensuring that:
(a) the market prospects for KKC, including possible competition from
ongoing and planned investments, were assessed carefully and
realistically; and
(b) GOI re-examined its public ownership and management role in the
proposed KKC mill.
4.05      The Bank's missions through its preappraisal work have had the
direct effects of training and sensitizing KKC and relevant GOI staff to
the economic viability issues, underlying investment evaluation and
different rational project preparation approaches such as procurement
packaging and financing issues. With respect to these last issues, Bank
staff al3o played an active role in helping GOI explore interests of
possible private partners for KKC, and succeeded in convincing GOI
authorities of the feasibility and desirability of such approach. Although
the Bank withdrew from financing KKC due to issues related to market and
public investment priority, it seems that GOI has retained the Bank's
proposed approach for private participation in KKC and is continuing with
the negoiations started earlier with prospective private equity partners.
4.36      By working closely with the Bank and consultants financed with
Bank loan on such major issues as market prospects, mill design and
sector strategy during the implementation of the Engineering Project, staff



- 10 -
from GOI and particularly from KKC have gained significant experience and
training which would be useful in addressing future similar problems in the
long-term development of the sector. Likewise, the local consultant
associated with the Finnish consultant for the restructuring study has
acquired some experience in sectoral analysis.
V. LESSONS LEARNED
5.01      In hindsight, given the Indonesian environment, the Bank may have
made the right decision to adopt a two-phased approach
(engineering/preparation prior to constr-iction) for such a large and
complex project as the Central Java Pulr. *.ad Paper mill. In effect,
although it was time-consuming, the engineering/preparation phase seems to
have allowed a more prudent and careful examination of the many issues
surrounding the KKC mill proposal, particularly the question of market
availability and its evolution in function of the unfolding implementation
decisions for possible competing investmenr projects (e.g., Aceh), and of
GOI's ownership role in the KYC mill.



