Document of               2,
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3377-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
August 24, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1.00       = Rp 625
Rp 100        = US$0.16
Rp 1 million = US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS         -  National Planning Agency
Basuki Rachmat  -  Perum Kertas Basuki Rachmat, a public sector
paper mill in East Java
GOI              -  Government of Indonesia
KKC              -  P.T. Kertas Kraft Cilacap
Oji              -  Oji Paper Company
Perhutani        -  Perum Perhatani, the State Forest Corporation
REPELITA         -  Five-Year Development Plan of Indonesia
(Repelita I, 1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79,
Repelita III, 1979-84)
INDONESIA'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$5.5 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate./l
Project            The proposed project is to help finance the cost of:
Description:    (i) basic engineering, procurement assistance including
the preparation of tender documents, prequalification,
and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the
wood supply arrangements for the Central Java project;
(iii) training of the project staff; and (iv) a pulp and
paper subsectdr study which would provide the basis for
the restructuring of the industry.
The engineering project's main benefit is the timely
completion of preparation of the Central Java pulp and
paper project to a degree of detail which should reduce
the risk of delay and cost overrun during the implementa-
tion of the project itself.  At the same time, GOI will
be able to complete a foreign exchange financing plan
for the project and explore various alternatives of
non-GOI financial sources for the local cost financing
plan. Plans for infrastructure as well as wood supply
arrangements would be finalized and the project organiza-
tion strengthened. It would also give GOI and the Bank
the opportunity to review a program for the development
of the subsector and associated policy reforms. The
risks associated with the implementation of the proposed
engineering project are minimal. The work may take longer
than envisaged but the consequences of such delays are
not serious. GOI is seeking Bank financing for the
ensuing construction project.
/1 This loan could be refinanced if World Bank financing were to be made
available to the Republic of Indonesia for the construction project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs :/l                                        Local   Foreign   Total
------(US$ million)-----
Items
Basic Engineering                                           0.21      0.48      0.69
Tender and Procurement Assistance                            0.50      1.15      1.65
Preliminary Civil Engineering                                0.26      0.67     0.93
Study of Wood Supply Arrangements                            0.29     0.45       0.74
Project Management & Legal Assistance                        0.15      0.69      0.84
Office & Miscellaneous Equipment                             0.10      0.20      0.30
Training                                                     0.20      0.40      0.60
Pulp & Paper Industry Restructuring Study                    0.12      0.25      0.37
Base Cost                                               1.83      4.29      6.12
Physical contingencies                                       0.25      0.63      0.88
Price contingencies                                          0.22      0.50     0.72
Project Cost                                            2.30      5.42      7.72
Front-end fee on the Bank loan                                  -      0.08      0.08
Total Financing Required                                 2.30      5.50      7.80
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                       -     5.50      5.50
Government                              2.30         -      2.30
Total                          2.30      5.50      7.80
(US$ million)
Estimated            Bank FY               1983    1984
Disbursements:
Annual                 2.0      3.5
Cumulative             2.0      5.5
Rate of Return       Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           There is no separate appraisal report.
MAP:                 IBRD 16438
/1 Net of taxes, which are insignificant.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$5.5 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Central Java Pulp and
Paper Engineering Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The loan could
be refinanced if World Bank financing for a subsequent pulp and paper project
were to be made as a result of this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human Development in the
Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About 20%
of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Outer Islands, and
the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a. The 1981
estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places Indonesia for the first time
amongst middle income countries./I
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        The economy has now been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over a
decade. This has been associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
/1 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 2 -
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from 80.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. In 1981/82
depressed international markets, combined with continued rapid expansion in
demand for imports, led to a $5 billion turnaround in the current account,
which registered a deficit of S2.5 billion. However, the economy appears
remarkably resilient in the face of this change: growth was maintained at an
estimated 8% in 1981, the reserve cover is more than adequate and the country
is highly creditworthy. The reason for this macroeconomic resilience can in
part be attributed to effective management of the oil-related resource wind-
falls. Throughout the 1970s the Government has kept public expenditures
broadly in line with medium-term receipts, through a combination of temporary
savings of windfall gains, reining in of recurrent expenditures in years of
relative shortage, and changing the extent to which the external oil price
increase is passed on to domestic consumers. The pattern of expenditures has
also helped foster diversified growth: of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support
services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests in 1980 and 1981. During
1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth rate (of about 14%
p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has been in spite of a
more restrictive policy environment and distorted incentives. Despite the
demonstrated resilience of the macroeconomy to the short-run developments in
the oil market, the likely decline in the relative importance of external oil
receipts implies that Indonesia faces a need for substantial structural change
in the eighties. If the pace of development is to be sustained the
development of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is
essential. This will have to be supported by major investments in new
infrastructure - particularly in transportation and electric power - if a
rapidly modernizing production base is to be serviced.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
5.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic health
indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase
in life expectancy from 47 to 53./I These improvements should not, however,
mask the continued existence of widespread poverty. Almost 50% of the
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



- 3 -
population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978.  The core of
the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers
form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for
most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural
wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests, it is likely
that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural incomes on
parts of the Outer Islands dependent on export crops have declined in the face
of the international recession.
6.         In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next decade.
In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and industry only
13%, while the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in 1971 to
32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employment in
the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by rising oil
incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a major source of
labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying the pattern of
productive growth.  Open unemployment, at 4% in 1980, is not yet a serious
problem - it is concentrated amongst secondary school leavers waiting for high
income work; the key issues are of widespread underemployment (seen in short
working hours in some sectors) and low wages. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and the
encouragement of labor-intensive choice of techniques in production,
especially in the industrial sector.
7.         In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in
primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%.  However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has been a
large expansion in facilities, notably at the level of the district and below,
but continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
raise standards.  This will have to be complemented by a major expansion in
water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mortality and
morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18% of the rural
and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /1 compared with
Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
Policy for Structural Change
8.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



- 4 -
the poor. The maintenance of a high level and an improved structure of
investment will be crucial to this. This will involve substantial investment
by the public sector, especially in economic and social infrastructure, com-
plemented by improvements in the policy environment to provide an appropriate
incentive structure for private sector investment.
9.         In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a program
of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries, LNG, petro-
chemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining. This
will broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited employment
implications. Of greater importance for both employment and exports is the
encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing through an
improvement in the economic environment. The 1978 devaluation of 33% against
the US dollar significantly improved the profitability of labor-intensive
import substitution and export industries. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated
a general review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions
caused by the wide variations in rates of effective production. It has also
embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports,
including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports
procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates (duty
rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant domestic
constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden, especially
in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed
financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these constraints are
needed to create an environment conducive to private investment.
10.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency of
energy consumption. This will require both price and investment measures. In
January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by over 60%, and this followed
a 40% increase in May 1980. This was a decisive step, but domestic prices are
still only about 55% of the average opportunity cost and price relativities
between products diverge widely from those prevailing on the international
market. In addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and
private participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of
hydro and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.
This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new and the rehab-
ilitation of existing irrigation systems and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely de ivery of
seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of further



-5-
expansion in food production.  In the past tree crops have suffered from
relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old, but GOI
has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating
substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution
and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
12.       Structural adjustment will require a high investment rate, and an
expanding level of public services; it also involves adapting to a declining
relative level of oil rents. The problem of financing development is clearly
central. This will require a major increase in resource mobilization through
the public sector, through a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum
products and increased nonoil taxes.  In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on
the domestic economy were only 6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is
netted out, compared with well over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83
budget represents a significant effort to improve the situation, with a
halving in the annual level of the oil subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in
nonoil taxes, but this will have to be sustained in following years.  In
addition to public resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important
to encourage the growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of finan-
cialized savings, through an improved financial regime and the development of
a domestic capital market.
13.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, of which the
most important component will be in the form of medium- or long-term debt
flows. Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $16
billion at the end of 1981 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $11
billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source
of external capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the
country. During the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid
transformation in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance
on official concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional
and variable interest loans in the second half of the decade.  In 1981 private
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and
the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how
far the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends
on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes
Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in international markets.
The implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent, and that
there will be a continued justification for official debt of long maturities
in the 1980s.  If the measures to support structural adjustment are imple-
mented then present projections indicate that Indonesia's financing
requirements can be met with the debt service ratio remaining below 20%
throughout the decade.



pART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESiA /I
14.        As of March 31, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling S931.8 million, and 67 Bank loans amounting to S4,562.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The shere of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%.  By the end of
1981, these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group
supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural develop-
ment, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
15.        During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to these
priorities.
16.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the sub-
sector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Coal Explora-
tion Engineering Project (No. P-3298-IND) circulated under cover of
R82-131, dated May 3, 1982, and approved by the Executive Directors
on May 20, 1982.



17.        rhe only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, sector work and
continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
18.        For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance, which deteriorated rapidly in the
late 1970s. The disbursement ratio (the ratio of actual disbursements during
the fiscal year to cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the
fiscal year) declined frGm about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80.  The
Bank-wide average was 21.31% in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Nigeria were 21.2% and 17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much of
this decline was merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments which
took place during this period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% in the FY77/79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of
83%), it also reflected increasing implementation difficulties. Many of the
problems appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have
been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank
missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommenda-
tions for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the
Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to
identify general and project specific problems and work out corrective
measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September
1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has
taken several measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, the Bank
is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify problems in the construc-
tion industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and
policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identi-
fied as one of the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia.
Finally, to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many
operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later stage in
the project cycle. Indications are that, as a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in



- 8 -
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80, $373.5
million in FY81, and $501.3 million in FY82, implying a disbursement ratio of
around 18%. While it is important that the Bank and GOI maintain their
efforts, these trends are encouraging.
19.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the first lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Transmigration, Seventh
Nucleus Estates and Smallholder, Twelfth Power, Twelfth Education and the
First Health projects.
PART III - TEE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR AND SUBSECTOR
Industrial Sector
21.        With the rehabilitation of the Indonesian economy in the mid-1960s,
GOI set out to develop Indonesia's hitherto small industrial sector with
the principal objective of exploiting and processing the country's natural
resources, and thereby expanding employment and increasing incomes. Other
elements of the overall industrial development objective have been wider
regional dispersion of development and the stimulation of indigenous entre-
preneurship. GOI pursued these objectives by directly investing in the
industrial sector, especially in the aftermath to the first oil boom in 1973,
by creating private sector incentives and by regulating private sector
investment activities through a comprehensive licensing system.
22.        From 1971 to 1980, the industrial sector, including mining and
energy, grew at an average annual rate of 11% (manufacturing grew by 14%),
compared with about 8% for the economy as a whole. Industry now accounts for
about 33% of Gross Domestic Product, compared with 14% in 1960 and 20% in
1970. But manufacturing, which typically is the most dynamic component of the
industrial sector, represented only 9% of GDP in 1980, a low proportion when
compared with Malaysia (23%), Thailand (20%), the Philippines (26%) and
Singapore (28%).
23.        The industrial growth that took place in the 1970s, was in most
part confined to large capital intensive industries such as cement,
fertilizers, steel and paper. These were also largely import substituting
industries. Given its high capital intensity and protection the industrial
sector that emerged, while impressive in terms of its early growth, was not



- 9 -
_iapable of generating a Large number of employment opportunities or capable
of replacing oil exports as a future source of export revenues.
24.        Although the devaluation of the rupiah in November 1978 and the
introduction of export incentive schemes led to a substantial growth in
manufacturing exports (from a very small base), industrial growth has been
slowing over the past several years.  This is due, in part, to the gradual
saturation of the readily accessible import substitution markets. It is
also apparent that some of the many policy measures which were designed to
stimulate industrial development have become so complex that they may now be
obstructing rather than facilitating the attainment of these objectives.
The Bank recently completed a review of the industrial sector which focusses
on specific problems related to the trade regime, the regulatory climate,
the financial policy environment and policies towards private foreign
investment, and makes a number of recommendations designed to improve the
policy and institutional environment and stimulate industrial activity.
25.       With respect to policy reforms, a number of areas were identified
as being of primary importance. The trade regime is biased against exports
in general and industrial exports in particular. A reform of the tariff
system so as to reduce the export bias and to move towards a more neutral
trade regime will therefore be an important element in the structural
adjustment of the industrial sector.  This area has received increased GOI
attention and an overall tariff reform is currently being considered (para. 9
above). GOI has also taken steps to improve export procedures. The
licensing system is also candidate for reform, in particular to increase
competition among existing and potential entrants to the sector. Movement
in this area by GOI, however, has been limited. Finally, while industrial
finance remains poorly developed, there has been recent movement designed to
increase the availability of export financing.
Pulp and Paper Subsector
26.        Background.  Indonesia's per capita consumption of paper in 1980
was 3 kg, well below consumption levels in the Philippines (10 kg), Thailand
(10 kg), Malaysia (22 kg), and Singapore (73 kg). However, paper consump-
tion (currently about 480,000 tons per year) has grown at an average rate of
13% annually during the past decade, compared with world-wide growth figures
of about 3-4%.  Domestic supply has expanded even more rapidly:  up from
18,000 tons (about 12% of demand) produced in six mills in 1970, to 230,000
tons (about 48% of demand) in 29 mills in 1980. Much of this new capacity
has been in small privately-owned paper mills without integrated pulping
facilities. Such mills merely convert imported pulp into paper, without
using Indonesia's abundant fiber resources. Consequently, the burden of
imports has shifted from paper, where import duties are as high as 60%, to
pulp on which there is no import duty. While mills of this type may be



- 10 -
financially attractive due to a distorted incentive scheme, they are typi-
cally small and inefficient and yield very low economic rates of return.
GOI recognizes this diseconomy as one of the most important policy issues
facing the industry.
27.       The annual demand for paper in Indonesia is expected to reach
about 1.2 million tons by 1990 at which time per capita consumption would be
7 kg. Existing mills could satisfy only about 20-25% of this paper demand
and less than 10% of the pulp required to produce it. As Indonesia has the
potential to develop fiber sources which could be economically utilized and
further improved to satisfy much of the local pulp and paper demand and
provide the basis for an export-oriented industry in the future, the high
priority attached by GOI to the development of this subsector is well
founded. However, it is important that this development takes place in an
optimal manner.
28.       Development Options and Policy Framework.  A Bank review of the
pulp and paper subsector in 1981 examined three alternative courses of
development during the 1980s: (i) continuation of the present investment
pattern; (ii) establishment of selected economically-sized integrated mills;
and (iii) restructuring of the existing industry concurrently with
establishing integrated mills. The first option was concluded to be
economically unattractive and could be taken only if the present high tariff
on selected grades of paper is maintained. While the second option is
reasonably economic, the review concluded that the third option is the most
economic and attractive because it addresses all the major weaknesses of the
subsector (para. 26). The proposed engineering loan would assist GOI with
developing this approach.
29.       While it has been GOI's intention that tariff protection and
licensing policies should be used to encourage an efficient industry, this
effort has not been successful in pulp and paper because of a combination of
several factors: (i) the distorted incentive scheme, reflecting the high
tariffs on paper relative to pulp and energy subsidies; (ii) the financial
unattractiveness of large integrated plants since they require a long
gestation period and capital contributions that could not be readily
financed by the private sector; (iii) the lack of infrastructure,
particularly in the Outer Islands where most of the fiber resources are
located; and (iv) the presently limited availability of sizeable plantation
forests that can supply sufficient homogenous fiber resources for paper
production at economic scales. To ensure economic and rational growth of
the subsector in the future, GOI should begin to address these constraints.
Specifically it should focus on (i) redesigning the incentive scheme so as
to encourage efficient production; (ii) investing in and operating
efficient, integrated pulp and paper mills; (iii) improving the structure
and operations of existing mills; and (iv) improving the fiber resource base
to support further expansion of the industry.



- 11 -
30.         Energy pricing, tariff reform, industrial restructuring, and
broader mobilization of non-GOI resources into th.e pulp and paper industry
are key issues in promoting rational development of the pulp and paper sub-
sector. In respect to energy pricing, the progress that has already been
achieved is noted above (para. 10). The high tariffs on selected grades of
paper (notably printing and writing paper, kraft linerboard and fluting)
need to be lowered, and in this respect the proposals currently being con-
sidered by the GOI as part of a general tariff reform are the appropriate
policy response. It is anticipated that these proposed adjustments,
together with reduction in energy subsidies already effected, would reduce
the average effective rate of protection for the pulp and paper industry to
about half the level prevailing in 1980. Though still high, this effective
rate would be one of the lowest among import substitution industries in
Indonesia.
31.       A major restructuring of the pulp and paper industry will also be
required during the 1980s to complement these tariff and energy price
adjustments. In a competitive environment, if a paper mill were to operate
profitably, it would have to be highly specialized, or an integrated,
economically-sized plant with maximum attention to operational and energy
efficiencies. Such an environment would also encourage existing mills to
rationalize their operations. However, short-run adjustment difficulties
for the existing mills which are mostly owned by the private sector could be
serious unless industrial restructuring programs are carefully planned and
implemented concurrently. For example, a preliminary analysis suggests that
under the reduced tariff levels currently being examined by GOI most of the
mills below 5,000 tons per year capacity (whether integrated or not),
accounting for 17 of the 29 existing mills, would incur significant losses if
they were to maintain existing modes of operation. Therefore, as part of the
proposed engineering project, GOI plans to inititate a study designed to
address the major policy issues facing the subsector and prepare a restruc-
turing program for the pulp and paper industry. Terms of Reference for this
study have been finalized and agreed upon between GOI and the Bank. A local
counterpart team consisting of representatives of the selected Indonesian
Pulp and Paper Manufacturers Association member companies, as well as
Bandung Cellulose Institute staff, is being organized to participate in t-1*
work.
32.        GOI is also exploring ways and means to increase the participation
of non-GOI resources in financing the industry, and has proposed the forma-
tion of a working committee represented by Ministries of Finance and
Industry as well as BAPPENAS (the National Planning Agency) to system-
atically explore and evaluate the viability of various means to
accomplishing this objective. GOI has decided to use the Central Java pulp
and paper project as a pilot case. Through supervision of the proposed
engineering project as well as further preparation of the construction
project, the Bank will be actively involved in these subsector wide
discussions and assist GOI in achieving the subsector objectives.



- 12 -
33.       At the project level, the Bank Group is currently working on two
large-scale pulp and paper projects. While the Central Java project being
considered here is the more advanced, a project to develop an integrated
forest industry complex in East Kalimantan is also being considered. GOI has
asked IFC to assist in financing the project itself, and the Bank in financ-
ing the infrastructure. GOI is committed to implement this project in the
private sector with some participation from foreign private partners.
Because of its isolated location, the East Kalimantan project is complicated
and expensive and is likely to take a considerable amount of effort and time
to promote.
PART IV - THE ENGINEERING PROJECT
34.       The Central Java pulp and paper project was first reviewed by the
Bank in the course of the 1976 Industrial Sector Mission which concluded that
it was one of the most promising pulp and paper projects under consideration
by GOI. Although GOI has spent several years trying to attract private
investment for this project, it has been considered too large and complex by
domestic investors, and foreign interest has been confined to the supply of
equipment and technical assistance. GOI thus assigned Perum Perhutani
(Perhutani), the state forest corporation, which manages all the forest
r-ources in Java, including the plantation forests designated for the
Cencral Java pulp and paper project, to commission prefeasibility and
feabl-iiity studies for the project by the Finnish Consultants, Jaakko Poyry
Oy.  Up,  thieir completion in May 1981, the Bank reviewed these studies, and
work to da:.e indicates that the Central Java pulp and paper project appears
to be techni.illy sound, and financially and economically viable.  Prelim-
inary financial and economic rates of return are in the acceptable range.
The Bank subsequently agreed to consider an engineering project to complete
preparation and assist in the confirmation of the viability of the Central
Java pulp and paper project. In addition, as part of the engineering
project, GOI and the Bank will continue a subsector dialogue on the restruc-
turing of the pulp and paper industry with the goal of bringing about the
policy and structural changes necessary to ensure the rational development of
the industry (paras. 30-32). A Bank mission in February 1982 appraised the
engineering project. Negotiations were held in Jakarta from July 29 to July
31, 1982, with the Indonesian delegation led by Mr. Nico Kansil, Director for
Planning, Directorate General for Basic Chemical Industries, Ministry of
Industry. Since this is an engineering project, no separate staff appraisal
report has been prepared. Supplemental project data are in Annex III.



- 13 -
Background
35.       The Central Java pulp and paper project would be the first large-
scale integrated wood-based pulp and paper mill in the country. The
decision, in principle, to proceed with a large capital-intensive public
sector project at this time reflects a number of concerns. First, while
highlighting the importance of small- and medium-scale industry, the Bank's
industrial sector review (paras. 24-25) emphasized that large capital-
intensive projects would remain appropriate in areas where efficiency
criteria support such technology, and where Indonesia has a comparative
advantage; such is the case in respect to pulp and paper. Second, the
question of public as opposed to private sector development is basically one
of timing. Active GOI attempts to interest domestic and foreign private
investments in this and other large-scale pulp and paper projects have not
been successful to date; indeed a private Indonesian firm returned the
license to develop this project to GOI in 1978. As the Bank's analysis
clearly indicates that the restructuring should be phased over time, GOI has
a choice between taking the lead in developing a project such as this one or
facing a significant delay in moving the subsector toward more efficient
integrated mills. Since the proposed Central Java pulp and paper project is
expected to (i) efficiently utilize and expand Indonesia's long fiber
resources, (ii) produce sack kraft paper, on which there is no tariff
protection, at internationally competitive prices, and (iii) demonstrate the
viability of this type of operation as an efficient investment; GOI partic-
ipation in and promotion of such a project is considered fully justified.
Moreover, GOI has indicated its willingness to examine how its participation
in this investment can be divested over time.
36.       The Central Java pulp and paper mill would be owned and
constructed by P.T. Kertas Kraft Cilacap (KKC) which is in the process of
being incorporated based on the Government Regulation No. 2/1982. The
incorporation of KKC would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
engineering loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The mill,
expected to be located at Cilacap on the southern coast of Central Java, is
planned to have a capacity to produce about 106,000 tons per year of sack
kraft paper. Cilicap is well located with regard to infrastructure, and
close to the wood supply and product market. It would be based on tropical
pine (Pinus merkusii) plantations located in Perhutani's concession in
Central Java, which would provide sufficient wood raw material to the
proposed mill based on a long-term contract between KKC and Perhutani. It
is anticipated that the price of wood would take into account all the
relevant costs of the operations and replacement of the plantation. This
plantation is one of the few significant long fiber resources in Indonesia
and represents an important opportunity for the production of those grades
of pulp and paper which require high strength properties. Three such
products, newsprint, sack kraft and kraft linerboard, were examined during
the course of the prefeasibility study. Due to the expected rapid expansion
of cement sack demand, GOI chose sack kraft as the main product for the
Central Java Pulp and paper project. The mill will also be able to



- 14 -
produce linerboard and thus adjust to changing market conditions.  The sack
kraft, to be produced for the first time in Indonesia, will be marketed
domestically to cement companies, and to a lesser extent, to fertilizer and
other commodity producers.  Assuming the project's construction phase
proceeds as expected, by the time it reaches full capacity in 1991, the
total demand for sack kraft is expected to reach about 120,000 tons
annually.
37.        GOI has tentatively decided to procure the mill in two packages.
The first package, representing about 60-70% of the estimated total installed
plant cost would be on a fixed price basis, and would include detailed
engineering, imported equipment and materials, supervision of overall plant
construction and commissioning. The second package would cover local
supplies of equipment and materials, construction and civil works, on a reim-
bursable cost basis. This approach to procurement is designed to achieve
the benefit of a fixed price for most of the installed plant cost, while
removing the uncertainty for foreign bidders in relation to local supply of
goods and services.  In order to ensure proper coordination and clear lines
of responsibility for the implementation of the construction project the
supplier of the first package should be responsible for the overall coordina-
tion and the supervision of the plant construction and commissioning. While
there is a risk that seeking a fixed price on such a large, complex package
may add to its price, GOI considers this risk acceptable in eliminating any
later cost overruns and minimizing delays. The GOI and the Bank will
consult with each other with regard to the suitability of the proposed
procurement arrangements for the construction of the Cilicap paper mill
during the course of the proposed engineering project.
38.        There is strong interest in cofinancing the Central Java project
among bilateral sources, commercial banks and other financial institutions.
Proceeding with the engineering project would ensure more accurate cost
estimates and allow appropriate time to structure the most attractive
financing package. Concerning local financing, GOI has decided to use the
Central Java project as a pilot case for the mobilization of domestic
non-GOI resources (para. 32). These resources could include investments from
commercial banks, pension funds, and insurance companies.  Similarly, GOI has
expressed its interest in ultimate disinvestment of the Central Java
project, options for pursuing this would be examined during implementation
of the engineering project.
The Engineering Project: Objectives
39.        The Bank's preappraisal of the Central Java project in February
1982, while supporting the project's economic viability, concluded that the
following additional information was needed to fully prepare the con-
struction project and to attract the maximum amount of cofinancing:  (a)
engineering and procurement arrangements for the two packages; (b) wood
supply arrangements; and (c) preparation of more accurate capital costs and
financing plan.



- 15 -
Thus the decision was made by GOI to proceed on the basis of two-phases; an
engineering project to be followed by a construction project if the mill
viability is confirmed. The objectives of the engineering project would be
four-fold: (i) to complete preparation of the construction project as
described above; (ii) to confirm the technical, financial and economic
viability of the construction project, and to permit implementation to
proceed expeditiously; (iii) to complete the financing plan; and (iv) to
undertake further studies, with the aim of reaching agreement with GOI on a
future course of action for the rational development of the pulp and paper
industry.
Project Description
40.       The engineering project would consist of four components as
described below:
Part A - Assistance in Developing the Central Java Mill
41.       Part A of the engineering project would consist of providing
technical assistance for carrying out basic engineering and the evaluation
of the environmental impact of the project, prequalification of potential
suppliers, preparation of tender documents, tender evaluation, and contract
negotiation for the first package (para. 37). It would also include prelim-
inary civil engineering and procurement assistance for local construction
and erection services. Additional funds would be provided for other pro-
fessional services required, including legal and management assistance. It
would also include an allowance for office and other equipment required to
facilitate project start-up.
Part B - Assistance in Developing the Wood Supply Arrangements
42.        Part B of the engineering project would provide technical assist-
ance to Perhutani in developing appropriate wood-supply arrangements
including plantation, logging and transportation programs, road designs and
environmental protection measures. The existing pine plantation covers
52,000 ha of Perhutani's 100,000 ha concession in Central Java. Perhutani
has designated some 40,000 ha of the former area for the Central Java
project, reserving the rest for contingencies and other operations. In
addition, Perhutani has ongoing programs to expand the pine plantation
within its concession by 10,000 ha over the coming five years and also to
reforest as required. The feasibility study and subsequent review by the
Bank have confirmed that the wood supply is adequate to meet the wood
requirements of the Central Java project. However, some of the terrain in
the plantation areas is hilly, and it would be necessary to prepare a
careful logging and wood transportation program. During the past four
years, Perhutani has been implementing a mountain logging project financed
by the Japan International Cooperation Agency, under which some 60
Perhutani personnel have been trained for cable logging. Other logging
methods have been examined, including animal skidding, manual skidding and
mechanical skidding. GOI will consult with the Bank on conclusions and



- l1 -
recommendations relating to tne wood supply progran, and would establish a
timetable, acceptable to the Bank, for the implementation of the program
(Section 3.03(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Part C - Training
43.        lost of the training required prior to the start-up of the Central
Java project would be carried out in the context of the construction project.
However, the engineering project would include a training component, primarily
aimed at making provision to allow training of key personnel in KKC and
Perhatani. GOI will be asked to forward a training program to the Bank by
February 1, 1983 and to initiate this program in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.03(b)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Part D - Subsector Restructuring Study
44.        During the implementation of the proposed engineering project, the
subsector studies would be continued, primarily focusing on tariff reductions
and industrial restructuring. Tne implementation of tariff adjustment
currently under examination by GOI, would be expected to include major tariff
reductions on paper, and would be pursued in the context of the overall
industrial sector and trade dialogue between GOI and the Bank. The restruc-
turing study for the pulp and paper industry to be included in the engineering
project would focus on the impact of policy changes and the needed restruc-
turing of existing pulp and paper firms to make them economically viable
(para. 31).  Terms of Reference for the study have been agreed during the
negotiations, and the consultants required to assist GOI on the study would be
hired by February 1, 1983 (Section 3.02(a)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).
GOI agreed to consult with the Bank on the study's recommendations and
findings and thereafter to take such measures as may be agreed to stimulate
economic development of the pulp and paper industry (Section 3.03(b)(iv) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
45.        The primary executing agency of the engineering project would be a
Project Management Team, which is to be established and maintained within the
KKC, and whose staffing program would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The nucleus of the Project Management
Team has already been staffed with experienced personnel from Perum Kertas
Basuki Rachmat, which is one of five public sector paper mills in Indonesia.
Basuki Rachmat operates a small well-managed integrated wood-based pulp and
paper mill in Banyuwangi, East Java, with a well-qualified technical staff,
most of whom have received some specialized overseas training in pulp and
paper technology. The investigations of wood supply arrangements (para. 42)
would be implemented by Perhutani using staff from its headquarters in Jakarta
and the Central Java office in Semarang. Finally, the industrial
restructuring study (para. 44) would be executed by the Directorate General of
Basic Chemical Industries of the Ministry of Industry. Coordination among the



- 17 -
agencies implementing the various components of the engineering project would
be ensured by a Project Steering Committee to be established by January 1,
1983 under the Ministry of Industry, which would include representatives of
BAPPENAS, the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Agriculture, Perhutani and
KKC (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.        Because the planning, implementation and operation of pulpwood
logging and paper production of this scale are new to Indonesia, GOI has
sought the services of a Technical Advisor. Oji Paper Company (Oji) has been
identified to serve this role. Oji is Japan's largest producer of pulp and
paper, and of sack kraft paper of the type to be produced in the proposed
Central Java mill; in addition, it has extensive project experience both in
industrialized and developing countries and it manages substantial forest
resources. GOI is negotiating two separate technical assistance contracts
with Oji, the first to assist KKC in the preparation, construction and opera-
tion of the mill, and the second to assist Perhutani in the wood supply
arrangements; both of these contracts are to include the necessary training
programs. The scope of work for these contracts would be divided into two
separate phases, one for the engineering project and the other for the con-
struction project. At completion of the engineering project, a comprehensive
review of the project's viability would be made and the scope of work for the
construction project phase would be reviewed and adjusted based on the results
of the engineering project. The contract for KKC is at an advanced stage of
negotiations and is expected to be signed within two months. Employment of
engineering consultants to serve as Technical Advisor for KKC under terms
satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Forestry consultants to serve as Technical Advisor
for Perhutani would be employed by February 1, 1983 to allow the project
implementation to proceed according to the present schedule (Section 3.02 (ii)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.        The engineering project would be implemented over the 18-month
period between September 1982 and March 1984. Upon employment of the
Technical Advisor, the engineering assistance for the main package would be
initiated, including basic engineering, tender documents, bid evaluation and
contract negotiations. Based on the availability of cofinancing and progress
to be made in mobilization of non-GOI resources, a revised financing plan for
the construction project would be prepared and the project's viability would
be reconfirmed prior to the final decision to proceed with the construction
project. The Technical Advisor would also assist with the development of
detailed wood supply arrangements. The Restructuring Study is scheduled to
start by February 1, 1983 and it is anticipated that the final report will be
completed by October, 1983.
Project Cost and Financing
48.        The total cost of the proposed engineering project (net of taxes,
which are expected to be insignificant) is estimated at US$7.7 million
equivalent. The total financing requirements, are estimated at



- 18 -
U$7 .8 mil,Loi-1 t_ivalent, of which US$5.5 million is foreign exchange,
including the front-end fee. The Technical Advisor's services during the
term of the engineering project would require about 280 man-months of
expatriate consultant services and have an estimated total cost of US$3.9
million. The average man-month cost, including salary, costs, fees, inter-
national travel and subsistence, is expected to be about US$11,400. In
addition to these personnel costs, the contract cost includes the cost of
local transportation, local office operating expenses and some other minor
items. The local components of the engineering project costs are primarily
related to the personnel costs of the Project Management Team and Perhlutani,
including travelling, operating expenses and overheads.
49.        The Bank loan of US$5.5 million would be lent at the standard
variable interest rate for 20 years, including a grace period of five years.
The borrower for the engineering project would be GOI, which would delegate
responsiblity for the implementation of the various parts of the Project as
detailed in paras. 41-45. Funds would be made available to KKC and Perhutani
by GOI as equity (Section 3.01(c) and 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement,
respectively)
Proctirement and Disbursement
50.        GOI's selection of Oji as the Technical Advisor has been accepted by
the Bank. The loan would include financing the Technical Advisor's services
during the term of the engineering project. Other services to be financed
under the loan would also be procured according to the Bank's guidelines for
the use of consultants. The only goods to be procured under the loan would be
(i) office and other equipment required to facilitate the Project Management
Team's (and later KKC's) establishment and operation during the term of the
engineering project (US$200,000) and (ii) proprietary spare parts for the
existing forestry equipment to be used by Perhutani for training (US$50,000).
As the items for KKC are small, they would be procured using prudent shopping.
The proprietary spare parts for Perhutani would be procured from the original
equipment suppliers after Bank's review and approval.
51.        Disbursements for consulting services and training would be made
against 100% of foreign expenditures. Disbursement for equipment for KKC and
spare parts for Perhutani would be made against 100% of foreign expenditures
and 100% of local ex-factory expenditures. Project activities are expected to
be completed by March 1984 and the closing date of the Loan would be September
30, 1984.
Accounts and Audits
52.        KKC and Perhutani would maintain separate accounts for all costs
relating to project investments. These accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the audited accounts would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year
(Section 4.02(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Benefits and Risks
53.       The engineering project's main benefit would be the timely comple-
tion of preparation of the Central Java pulp and paper construction project
to a degree of detail needed to confirm project viability, and substantially
reduce the risk of delay and cost overrun during the implementation of the
construction project. At the same time, GOI would be able to complete a
financing plan. Plans for infrastructure as well as wood supply arrangements
would be finalized and the construction project organization would be
strengthened. It would also give GOI time to complete a restructuring study
for the pulp and paper industry.
54.       The risks associated with implementation of the proposed project
would be minimal. The work may take longer than envisaged but the conse-
quences of such delays would not be serious. Developing a firm financing
plan could prove difficult and/or cause delays but the proposed engineering
project would ensure that project outlays are minimized prior to finalizing
the total financing package for the construction project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of effectiveness include the
incorporation of KKC (para. 36) and the employment of engineering consultants
for KKC (para. 46).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 24, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/ a
TOTAL            1919.3                                           MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     316.5                   1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       80.0        140.0            430.0             261.4                  890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENI)          124.7        121.9            225.4            448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TEOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0         146557.0
LRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      14.6         17.1             20.2              17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5             74.6            158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         355.9        378.8            452.4            355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTLRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7         44.0             40.1              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                              56.2         53.4             56.9             59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.1          2.5              3.1               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.1          2.0              2.3               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                                   3.7          3.6              4.0              3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          46.8         40.7             35.3             29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          24.5         17.2             13.3              11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8          2.7              2.2               2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          0.2             27.1              19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)               93.0        102.0            113.0            108. l                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.3         93.9            101.7/c           97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               38.2         42.4             44.9/c            56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             5.6          6.2              6.6/c           20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          22.9         16.8             11.3              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2         47.3             53.1             57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               149.9        120.9             92.7             89.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..         3.0             12.0/d           32.9                    32.0
LRBAN                                    ,,         10.0             35.07d            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                     ,,         1.0              6.d7d           22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..        12.0             15.0/e            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                                    ,,         50.0             60. 7e           72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                     ..         4.0              5.07;             4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5          13674.6           3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4517.0       7672.8           8871.6           4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1360.3       1644.6           1609.9/d          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..            699.0/d          301.3                   651.6
RURAL                                     ,.          ..           3166.8/d         5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..             22.4/e              ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4          4.8
URBAN                                   4.9          5.3               .
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..         1.5
URBAN                                    ..          1.6               .
RURAL                                     ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..               ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..               ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..               ..



ANEX I
-21 -                                   Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERACES
M OST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b    ESTIMATE /b   ASIA i PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                     71.0        78.0            94.0             97.4                   96.2
HALE                     86.0        83.0           100.0            101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                   58.0        73.0            89.0             87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                      6.0        16.0            22.0             53.0                   37.6
MALE                     10.0        21.0            27.0             63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                    3.0        11.0            18.0             41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)      20.4        22.1            19.8              1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               38.8        28.9            37.2             37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                             14.0        13.1            17.0             20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           39.0        56.6            62.0             52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             1.1         2.1             3.5/c            1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             7.2        22.0            41.9             35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.1         0.8             8.6              3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     11.0          ..            17.7/d           16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA      2.8          ..             0.871            3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        34791.4    41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.8        30.9            29.3             29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 75.0        66.0            58.0              70.0                  52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.0        10.0            12.0             15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   36.7        35.4            35.9              40.0                  38.5
MALE                                    54.2        49.5            51.0             51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                  20.0        21.6            20.9             23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.2         1.3             1.2               1.0                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          ..            23. 5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..            49.47/d
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          ..             6.67d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          ..            14.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..           136.0            133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                   ..          ..           112.0             111.5                 155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..           119.0               ..                  178.2
RURAL                                   ..          ..            98.0               ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..          ..            28.0             43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                   ..          ..            51.0              51.7                  41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
_N0(-I COS 07   1151 INOICITORS
tots: 51t-st-es-r..s                     s               -       g(t.   she tens oedre,ee hd  -eliable, it obsad also h, notd thein >co   5  50  ein--
otooIyoooarsle           st      0-a t:-,1sIeosrododtnss'l  dIfll"ts   set eoeIe...        used by differn--      snro       ellellg tho to..   Th. ee -ro  s-ct-
-fdos.elsitsd-                 d-scs0ntsrts        tItaesod .  dsboso                 -oeaiss-J.,rdtftf-ore Iobotet Ie                I
of the sobjeetoosetr-y        s-sos opt  ic-pof    Ifeosc   -11 ts -r-ers   gusehos    Ni2d  Inton  North A-ste ard         ghd - Eat' -o hee   ohass  ef, -s-eO       g-p
soot-slt-ra  affinistsa)    ls tbnref-r'eo     gross d ats sh   nsoesar  IpopIt-lo  eightol ariethosee Moeic'   eas  isisto   ons thes selfotn
aJ-royoIfsthrtos..ir.  Es   grosea   at   s  st- tteas                        toseso _o sroag          sI _ostrisss   h   satr               od   ro ,altlr    fdt
and fIos  dhof.r-   -aorf-  e-I he e-dserto   Os re.iotio   -                   Ieoot d onoedtsst-rsossstbe.    hseaor           are  -tisoses .l        nsrts   ose Isate  o
on   Odtatra   aTs-naoosgtht s--esy ad tfroornesogssep.
AREA (nhossnd .,.ks. (                                                                                Poolaee  er(soolsl ltd -  sna,,l  echos  a-d coal - Pop;iattos  (tota.1
T-rs  - Tesoi .-sor  crre  sor-  te          as-onshar   el and -osen   ; i9N data                    urhos, sod  -orl) o felld by thnor ress.tss  sashe  of hespit, sa ,tds
Agttoitolr-l   E-- Etts  ef egreleoral-  area  sord lrep--ereisyoe pocoe-s- ly                        aaailahle  so, puo1e ond prosot  genera'. a-ssestaiand hEsopitsoIadne
for crps. patues   Irnt ad stdohee gardoso  -c Os I   fl la,;ll  data-                              hu  IOt setis str      osoaE   r   t o  t    snerosnt    sfe
he or boot er  peysitla-   Etassl inh-on  s   -aedicg  ,rtc.s tpely Ioso
EN? PER CAPITh  Il)- too per sspssa r-tsn-    ot c-cos  raEspoo.eltls5    r   e   efd.-rttnta                                                                  ene   etd   hess
eslard  byeaseee--ctte  tthed  Is Wor-d Eace Aolos (1978-t0 hauts); ,d6C,                        an   rsolssenossraetlc                         1 stafo    Ic   I    lb,su    (ho  bye
ff1.ad 1921 daa-otte`asotiat, sosrep                                                                                                fdte   t.) s..hofrt-ptes uem-
ENERGY CENNIEPOTIOt PEE CAPITA - Acu-s    anoue.yetoe of s-sraci sl  ee-rll s,-Ysucl  -uyeo                                 b- huspltalo  tonlude  7Hec Prsilipal/geerai has-tit.
sraitty) Ec ktlegaa   tIeo  eooain   trsptn  C5t. 19I- e  1979                                        r-ster    ,-JEosis pbo   on lou    r   n  so   sysdo-sa
iota-                                                                                               Ades,osts   err Fgyy,otal fe3d - PTal.  n-ct,  ot  dlsi-iun-sa   disth-rg-
h Ifoes ht.piools deeded by teehste sIt I-
PEPULATrONt ANE hOIsTA STAISTIlS
Msidfoelt en  tt-trrth    Aas I de uf -ely 1; 19f0, ,9711 . s  19ff                    MC)  G
data                                                                                              astf   lelastd(pcespete-od   - tesol. ocEan, and rerol1-
dif-tree   d, inltele-  ofI coo  ora      daffassr btaisiey tO duos                                  -edtbouas    olsE eds   o                   I fo o-  tsy f-oe h  istloirdd Ee
a  Iong _eunr_ta   19ff. 1ff. std 1922 dora,                                                     tee -aoetld ts  sa - -i-a  psrpso--
PeeasttOl Pejttsanu                                                     ooOjfyar -ss -f hl   e  r s- <so,so  r,nd rural     ntgnfos
te nlpeolslr by   -~ oduesAoo   asro-lfy  ard  eretlse  caseforo   res;-eeoee ic  foaissg   roe lIt  o-pr- aee   srosn-                                                     n
ontlofeeoetsosteohoeehoetraoa-oget ,eeoesro                 d noroa a it-                5Eato   e-rcotfe r                              orolabas  aersIrol-
it-el,taod fea-o -Isle   -repttaly  -not- zecogue  71.  'er-,   Ito1- taro -                         esaeld.tf  cs   lsees seIoogNatea
1 Ifor ferstOt..y a,sao   00ete   sl    susfd  bee  ,old.                                    ofde  IoIo   chat, te  r          IedslofsdLra-ooer..ee-
sod   f-ri  f-ilyseed   far preo -oe   1-oror  -                                                     ted CIrsllro,sedatso
__cp_,the birth rat  io eusi Os st.  drah rote    nd,, aed d   sheag            Inteer               neerle-t of al    e  as the prisaty I er  soa          eeoons  feaeo
esseaents, - This so acrErot  In,y  afte  frc-t,ossl rathes  ~-o1rseiay nI-boSt-9   feolt                                          ns;srsul,  is loft  ehdree aged 6-li
th~rreeoarnm-ssf-eelotosoteot re-rd-oerleean,eter-eh grcer                       d,,                 eaosa1usedlsr  dsfats l              eedihl1gor  If peoiaryeduoasin;fr
lothr   ....f. i'                                                                          teco-daosdeboso   t alaeu foa-Csspstnd  astesch                           tedr
mont beef.                                                        05 t0505  reqo loon at loa.t feo~Ir yearn .   ppeetd primary  letetts
Per-ta-tiOner.-y       ate ppl it re-ttd - ITh- hya    Istn  -tee ....c py      se                    prss~dtdes erstu     iosa las    - rset-her erf-iOni  on-trth-   for rPOplo
PeesOanOon frostey                                                                                      eosfade-
Per so- km. - Mod -aeo   psgs,-ainr pee sos-  etlone.e-  ( I  eear.)0                            lsonareollooopj L -cee- erIf edo  -   eerts-                           eoiE-e
ton alore; 0960, 197f aed 1971 dat deld   t   e'a -Inedsncs r.1er otr  rs                                                                            hn srh  prs   todepred-
Pnrso.kmafri-Ltt-alla-df-lcpe da-sab..eforagriclo-ralaned                                           a-tly -sca    ddopa-er-sfor -dare  On.e-L           --
eI'll96, 197, aed 1979 d-l,-                                                                F",il  -abr r,at                    -Iuear   ted . oe oaeeT_ asedrte-nlpdssi
Pepolat-o tee   tSeesee (yr-ert  -  e            -de    11-14 (oar.   - ki, tOe-sE  (11-              prte-yasod ae-edery  l,ss    dissdd`n heeby         s  o trte sso the
64 O-yerl,e   ns-'d                . ...ossorr   at . por teesessIfs -yosca pu                      errespsddis   eris
laIen; 16G. 197fi asd 19ff oaoaI-                                                               Idosls  _Iser Z rate  (persona) - Ll-t-at   -eao   aelo1 so read ad  -rose)
PeptOeroso leot  Ese  (eryons  -es,fr                l r-s1tboeonof  -esl odsapoorresgo  of ta-1  fosd-                                     y~a a_ o   byasad eIe_
yea  opolanooo-  for190h.96-,ar  1(71-fl
Pop1.iett G..ee  tose  Es  leenset   - absr.  Ah- se I   -ot  Itaee   of <habs rp                CONSldCTION
I...e.. fet 19ff-hf, 1960-70~ - us  1970f-8C-0.rfrae                                                                     tete  rplste  . ..e.f...  oars s-opes   etor
Roe eehfat  -yr   heusasd   - Aosa-  1-r  hereth, eec ohot-d ef nid-ys Aar  "eafe   leesnte  right poeteset;e   feoblaes ere   o
pepofIotide; 1961. 1970, sed 19ff  aso
Craft Erothjfate (set  hoan)- A-aul do--or - c             tc-sssd leid-eeor                       fadIf fRotraesreosn   Auofltl) -tyos ofrescs fe -rdio
ppeylatEon; 1960, 1971. and 1900 dOts                                                                csdeadesass  gonoraf ya-Ott per tho...asd cIfepta          .e      . te    rsu-_
teosa~P ord-ue-tPe Os-A-nrage enste  It da-ghoet-   wos ..             dl hoeae                        lI,ne       _reoitrs   r estre_ fe _sd is ye-oct eto  rbfEatrto   ef. radio
hereo -ar     -risette   p-otod t- the  ee cr  proeaf-p(Itl fre-                              -000 ea   rff-e; ease foe reess  y-oru retes   It-eoaebloests
ttitj reset  stoo 1e, lic-yea-         oaeesfe  Ic 16,I190  ad 1960.                                e         to ouec- u1heltbd lidseiete
F-osly ?Ia.oIntgeeoor,denta  (ehoo-seea    - -enea  ec-b-  ef --ter-s                               Re etesee-_ee hoeae po                tie) - Th r-elero  far breadea-  to
of _tc_h-rettrs' ore-oendoraose--e  of nar-es  e0-, re-Ote e-era-                                t  .reeu    sls  are,  el-e-ee  yoeelo-s-;- e -desloeee-d OlTVer-er
Fe-oOyP1.laretsC- a rr,s(prt-feforrIod-deuae, -                rerarfnessttcoaoood isye~ s-seee                                                    srtaoTVIteroea   ineffrt-.
emeorhild-b-arfe   age (Of-g   yas   obo~1 to  bsh-e-rr              -it,os so-fensy_eCircuasion(P    eteas   otl e                                   - fo   she aortge tOe-
aO. earnled ..one  ie sass eg  g-ru.                                                                s'l-iseoIf  'oyserl               trseeypc   dofteed asyr idia
peblittatoo   d.. sate   Preeel  soI  nenie    -srol ete-    iti           -oniardd-
PCODR ANR NfUTIbg                                                                                       te  o  file'  if is aperr  as lease  fet  saostrk
Idtfe  af Pod- efese  pe    as            1969-I1=l0y) - lefee of pee eapita  --srel                (see-  Ao l         -ttesdens pee l t   perber    otd Iso three...  o-,f
potrlef         Id ttoneer         Poutessladddrretc-ya,                drdt1essy-fns5                                   roseartrlas5oi      nst       t dri-tosirea
itsdsaOndrraras- Cadieel sot- eor-- ino-ryg-u   e-g.   h -ord                                        netleis
te   r   nldrd5   Aggg-rgae  yr-d-ssOo   of rah seeris oasd                            LABIOAR FORCE
s    ....t.se.t  p_-dre   PrOt  00 5g.to,If-h,  9190,  s.1900 ie-                 ~         so.ul -sbeossrIr  (treosardo)              - t0  oso     - ee   persos, inrladfeg
penfe d   -Anilatle  spp-Es- --ri-en   tsn.-s    roeets-inpoten  1rs                                ttoersi;1960, 1971 aed 1900 data-
e-oeaaeagesi tesack-   NotsypIesr-eldraom-i                  ed,cea   ,P.~-                                   Fpr.setsI-yeoeao feeeorseae-seleofpe
q     I'llOa  oe   Os feed pres-ossg, -ed       Ido-f  diosetri s,I     fIot                 Agrtseltsre  ty-re-)   Lobee lo-eeiesesg   frestre   h-eslgasf7
oett  ee   asI-nte h,  y FOd easd sebn tose               noesfr e-r-a  aef lb~icg eoP et-tort  of -ete Ohor - b r    -  10, '971 and 191  data-.
etey ate h-aitb   osfrehrt,teo s-sdarirgoe--- bo-y a Ithe,age                                       feeoylr-e            - L.teIe   is sie--,esosraenefrstg
osde farecse   of poplastr               - se   alo lsE1   eec-s hey  u-er a-                and lr  cts          atte   go   s  a            td    0t Isa  lacer forte
h-ostod le-e; e961-6b. 0970 one1(7-7 d19o (IO, 1(70 ant 1990 data,
ertooppoyetoodpenasy    fesocpelco-.eadtsdesoelonoton  -  fe-                  e,estrraers   rosemastofs-etsl,ssl.odfteuleltstgorsea
qoird-eso  fo  olesssi   statotedo -r                    rroe -r  esss e-esse    f'L.tae  -d  erdPyy-,ea efal "e   earr  eey
a     Iosen    f 6g  Ir-as If t-eu  pr-ti  per d,r on  20 eSse  afer960s lt, 1970, ord beg0 det-   T-rse ur   -ed en ILO's  partleiparie  rate
-dlaepe-raea,shorhlhsacscaohtlo -tse                  Prai,cto  -1  Tteaides                        cslesgg-sOL  steotei l  -bpseos -rttglrr-d 
a-t-a  p-ones  as noc aeere    foeseee,r-W, P-poses    a  Peel  etoh T~Io iedoo    IeeSaco  Resi  - R,ntee  poys   sac                                           -see    ba 5f a-d o
ter1d esad fSrc-y; 1961-65. 1970 oed I9t?  da,-                                                      so e to 0 _aOocfe 
Pere"e'll protIc t py           -    lefsasmaa   euo-Pnero         eoyfdoesseded
cOoed Ira, ani,dnlo  aef poles Is g-as  pir doe~ 1(61-65, 1970 and  (sf7 daa                   L\lOMEhDIfTRItLTIyf
tre yasd  -saoIo 111  onlr- ; in f-i,  lyy  r .70    as'               -                                 -h-o2tc'd4
at- hOrsh;n1961, 1970 and 19f  easdts-                                                               an 1so bdh     _sre _oeo   esni  sosdrs esoe
fsIIohe  Ortlt   ar   per_ejd -sea  atone    f                           hsttads ~-c    year       Etei-,ds Abeele, frrybasLrl(t                           epo    -ar - aed  -tel 
efogeI Pet,toos-odoIoe  tsihllfh O,leOad,Odf0ata-                                                   Osle P'ette,oeohec                              n  (elbla-iuti
egssteuegte    rrtesse_lote-eoa.te.afneo-e-                                                            se_eeolsaeea,eoiputssta                             fadegsrsrsa_              a
he  o   sete(otl,ran a(acP   sObto,eh raes sod safe,                                           ffonoli
sasecsash  eat r~eccsee-    e   hoIf    se   ye1so   as   eiees, a              n             5t-st  ef aesro poot   eee   e   e    nd Ireaoae   e   ort
er-eIetagose   rb,eresyeeeoee.   pey-sletes          Ora - -atlas77  -roaspelte                     yono-oal-aoa   yseratr    ra                  nltsrsdfe   h   ta
eenaderr   so, bOet osthit e rsotal  aeese1  (hu  Ioos                - tecoa  areas                                         incstr   o  Ite   flaaoome  (I     rel(eest    
rrontee-1e,        o apyta                                                                                                                                            P tuof    r  otr   fsh   eorl   adrrl rret    feptals(eeeto)osse   usls
h-sosae   sO p-O  rstd       Io   as  psseot   tato  o   spas  ne   lss,
thei rate   -roeag dosea.   t    roso5eetoo
lo   tstb latoe  -n                            r1      r,        ct         t ,    
Peptaton  ee  ersng  Pen Por-1.fepsslo rsside- by    sen-enIf             hyaeoen                                                    E--g         c--n  Nl II         ii
nal-a-deofietr-e    .. doa     -sss..hasaessa-n-rts    r-oestaleoseeaeol  -d-,ch   DP-1-
sortinga teo Olirartes.



ANNEX i
Page 4 of 5 pages
- 23 -
Population    :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$430 (1980)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                  Annual growth rate (x)
(million USS at                             (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                        Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                            1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024           5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.8    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     18,003           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.4    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                       29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        22,794          10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       48,976           6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                  15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   13.1   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                   21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.3    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                   15,494           7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   18.5    7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national savings            17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1   -5.0    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                          166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                      415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (x)                          Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product       100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9          8.4         7.5         7.3         7.5
Agriculture                 54      47      32     26      22      17         2.7          4.1         4.1         3.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18      34     42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7         9.0         9.0
Services                    32      35      35     33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0         8.5         7.5
Consumption                 91      89      79     70      74      74         4.1          8.4         8.9         8.6         7.6
Gross investment             8      14      20     22      26      27         4.8         18.3        11.7        12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS             13      13      23     31      23      18         3.6          9.2         8.7         3.7         3.2
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2         22.1        14.0         8.7         4.9
Gross national savings       8       9      17     25      25      22         6.1         23.1        14.4         4.8         7.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970           1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE lb
Current revenues                                                           11.7           10.1           10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                       14.0            8.4            9.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                -2.3            +1.6           +7.1          +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                        n.a.            5.0           10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                           0.2            3.5            3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80         1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                               4.5             7.6                 6.9              7.3             7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (x)                    2.4             5.1                 4.5              4.9             5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (x)                2.9            16.0                15.0             11.0            10.0
ICOR                                                     2.2             2.2                 3.1              3.4             3.8
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30            0.48                0.30             0.18            0.26
Import elasticity                                        1.2             2.8                 1.9              1.2             0.7
/a  At market prices.
Th Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
May 20, 1982



-24 -
ANNEX I
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                              Page 5 of 5 pages
5NP per Capita:  USS430 (1980)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions USS at current prices)
Actual                  Estimate                       Projected
Indicator                   1977       1978      1979     1980      1981        1982      1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861    11,353   17,494   22,245   21,878    21,882   30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374    11,323   16,661   17,593    16,420   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171       5,584    4,285       5,462    7,239    8,964   10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,202          25,807  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,318  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586      -659      -975   -1,035    -1,100   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    3,459    3,596   -1,324    -3,895   -1,778   -2,010   -1,397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203           -602   -1,034   -1,253   -1,650   -3,899
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514      -772      -819      -973    -1,096   -1,307   -1,534   -1,801   -3,359
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501      -489      -386      -230         494       273       281       151      -548
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52        76        67        100       100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467   -2,460    -4,397   -2,712   -3,163   -2,947   -8,749
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       178        200       350       450       600    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956    2,205      1,865    2,536    2,356        3,969    4,536    5,182        5,772    11,113
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,000    -1,361   -1,567   -1,872   -2,225   -4,924
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       657        536    1,583     1,356      2,600    2,969      3,310    3,547    6,189
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       891   -1,261   -1,454          86        500       800       800       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736         840      1,097   -1,407   -1,397   -1,900         -440
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,502          5,405    6,812    8,209   10,109   13,189
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       5.0        3.7       3.8       3.9       4.3        3.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system  /d                                 -         -    6,906   10,787   10,798        9,101     9,908    11,305   13,205   17,285
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1       8.3        6.2       5.6       5.3       5.6       4.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2,205      1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                         442       484       433       679       802
Bilateral                                381       448       399       631       729
IDA                                       49        29        30        42        68
Other                                     12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514     1,721     1,432    1,858      1,552
Official export credits                  218       271        61        25       154
IBRD                                     191       168       199       331       106
Other multilateral                        16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089    1,270    1,126       1,450     1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107    13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062    2,101      1,772     1,974
Interest                              441       514       771       819       973
Payments as % exports /e                11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                      6.3       7.6       6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                        5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5       18.7      19.1      19.0      15.6
Official - source                       23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                       10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                  30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                 60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                     East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                          August 24, 1982



- 25 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  586.50  491.50              -
400      1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -        7.80        2.42
428      1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.50        7.84
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                 -       16.00        3.67
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension               -       30.00        3.82
1100      1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00    -            9.14
1179      1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50    -            3.93
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.00    -            4.62
1236      1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00    -           22.79
1237     1976   Fourth Education                            37.00    -            8.28
1250     1976   Second Shipping                             54.00    -           10.66
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension               22.00    -            3.46
1268      1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00    -            8.63
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00    -                 4.22
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                    52.50    -            7.87
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                          32.00    -            9.89
1365     1977   Sixth Power                                116.00    -           34.04
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                       13.00    -            7.01
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.00    -           11.62
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.00    -           38.64
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                            35.00    -            8.87
1472     1977   Second Population                           24.50    -           14.23
1486      1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00    -            7.92
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.00    -           30.23
1513      1978   Seventh Power                             109.00    -           40.41
785      1978   Small Enterprise Development                -       40.00        9.67
1578      1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00    -          119.30
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                         31.00    -           19.78
827      1978   Rural Credit                                -       30.00        7.79
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II           65.00    -           59.75
869      1979   Polytechnic                                 -       49.00       42.91



- 26 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.00    -           56.59
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00    -           33.25
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                   -       10.00        8.73
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.00    -           39.50
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.00    -           27.75
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              130.00    -          101.93
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                              50.00    -           14.61
919    1979   Transmigration II                            -       67.00       41.87
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00    -           90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00    -          130.37
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.00    -           32.96
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                 -       12.00       11.04
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III          99.00    -           74.42
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development               -       45.00       39.31
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                         -       45.00       36.43
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II            -       42.00       40.99
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00    -          104.03
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV           42.00    -           36.91
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research              35.00    -           35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research               -       30.00       29.57
1869    1980   Third Population                            35.00    -           34.81
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                253.00    -          230.62
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development             46.00    -           44.95
1904    1981   University Development                      45.00    -           44.76
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00    -          225.27
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.00    -           21.14
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                    43.00    -           43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V           161.00    -          160.24
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00    -                78.59
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                    85.00    -           85.00
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                             170.00    -          170.00
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                15.00    -           15.00
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining /1
Development & Transport                 185.00    -          185.00
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development /1                 100.00    -          100.00
2101     1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.00    -           80.00
2102     1982   Second Textbook /1                         25.00    -           25.00
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation /1                     37.00    -           37.00
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation /1                   70.00    -           70.00
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.00    -                66.00
/1  Not yet effective.



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits               4,562.00  931.80
less cancellations                             -23.13   -1.65
Total                                          4,538.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                      -119.73   -4.19
Total now outstanding                          4,419.14  925.96
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a              4,418.11  925.96
Total undisbursed                              2,981.09  287.33   3,268.42
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                    Page 4 of 28 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            --- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material            48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market          4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                             118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  77.5       3.4       80.9
Total held by IFC                                    41.3      14.6       55.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   50.0            0.3       50.3



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                   10-13
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   13-15
Rural Development (946)                                                      15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                  16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056 and 2079)                          19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                     21
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                         21
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                   22
Nutrition (1373)                                                            22-23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                           23
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                               24
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                        24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                      25
Ports (1337)                                                                 26
Tourism (479)                                                                  26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      26-27
Water Supply (1709)                                                            28
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                      Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. Because of the continuing
delays in this project the Closing Date has been postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi.  The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. The completion of the project by March 1984 depends on
the timely provision of budgetary allocations from GOI.



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977
Effective Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI will
maximize the use of consultants to overcome this latter problem.
Disbursements are currently about 63% behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects, Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage II),
with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku irrigation drainage
rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared to appraisal
estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has progressed
well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and secondary
canals are also completed and the tertiary network 80% completed.
Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems of Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung (Stage II) have been completed. Disbursements are about 71% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. Among its large dams construction
projects the GOI is proposing to give priority to the construction of the



-32-                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
Batutegi Dam which will ensure full benefits of the Way Sekampung irrigation
studies. The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and included
in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements are currently 33% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the last
3,450 ha. A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for
tertiary design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The pro-
ject is currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months
compared to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is
expected to be completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years.
Disbursements are about 41% of appraisal estimate. It is expected that there
will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the tertiaries for
the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND) which did not
cater for the intensity of canals as needed.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees, bank
stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river, widening of
the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control structure at
Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control operating and
flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed by
mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the implementing
agency should consider using the savings under the project for procurement of
additional Operation and Maintenance equipment such as large to medium-size
dredgers, dozers, draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be
useful for emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes
damage during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that



ANNEX II
33                      Page 9 of 28 pages
$6-8 million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project.
The list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980,
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. The project also experiences
budget constraints. Works in the Madiun area and the tertiary development are
progressing well ahead of schedule.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of the
Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main canal commenced in
early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award by mid-1982,
behind schedule 12 months. The Dumoga catchment protection and Nature Reserve
is yet to be started, and was delayed awaiting approval of a management plan
and budget allocation by GOI. Implementation of this component is behind
schedule by 12 months. All the consultants for studies and institutional
support to the DGWRD are engaged and contracts signed. Disbursements to end
September 1981 were 54% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra.  In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction.



34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2118  Sixteenth Irrigation:  $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province):
$70 Million Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date:  Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; developing groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha;
upgrading operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation
systems already rehabilitated; and strengthening of the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI) to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha
private estates tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of exten-
sion staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. Due to availability of
inputs on the open market at lower price, performance of P. T. Pertani
regarding input distribution has been disappointing during 1981 resulting in
slowing down disbursements. The project still suffers from weak management,
although, at the request of the Association, the GOI has initiated a series
of actions to accelerate the disbursement rate. It is doubtful if the
balance of Credit of over $2 million can be disbursed by December 31, 1982,
the new Closing Date, unless the situation improves.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                          Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977:
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
After a rather slow start which resulted in extension of the
Closing Date to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress
since mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development
is almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements have now reached 75% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Uncertainties about land availability, slow land clearing, and
weak management and coordination have caused implementation delays. In
particular, detailed surveys indicated that only about 12,000 of the
anticipated 30,000 families could be settled in the area originally
designated based on a food crops farm model. Disbursements to date are
about 56% of appraisal estimates. However, in recent months, progress has
been made in resolving these difficulties. GOI has put foward a plan for
settling 30,000 families in Jambi and adjacent provinces; detailed surveys
of the proposed areas and procedures for compensation for local landholders
are awaited. Performance of the first land clearing contractor has
improved; and a second land clearing contract has been signed. Several
steps are being taken to improve project coordination by the office of the
Junior Minister of Transmigration. The substantial program of screening and
evaluation of future transmigration sites, executed by 11 consulting firms,
will be completed in June 1982.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the 1981 planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler houses
and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates
have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber, 3,700 ha
of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets for rubber
planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm oil mill
have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in some
smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be completed
on schedule, an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been
agreed to.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                        Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target. Action has been taken to speed up the
logging operations and the project is expected to be mainly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will have
to be extended to June 30, 1985.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to-take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND).
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Disbursements by end 1981
amounted to $3.8 million out of an estimated $5.0 million but are expected to
catch up soon. Delays in road construction are affecting project implementa-
tion and supervision, and measures to speed up progress are under review.
Training of field staff and smallholders will be kept strictly practical;



ANNEX II
_ 37 -                      Page 13 of 28 pages
visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a trainer/coordinator position
at provincial level but working at the Project Management Unit level is being
considered. The creation of an internal audit unit and timely recruitment of
staff to deal with financial matters is urgently required. Four studies,
including a feasibility study, for an eventual second project are nearing com-
pletion and after review by GOI will be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment. There are no major problems with this project, apart from the
requirement to strengthen management and the seriously delayed procurement of
vehicles.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The development and rehabilitation of coconut plantings are about
30% ahead of appraisal estimates but there is need for improvement in project
management. The transfer of responsibility for administrative and technical
control from the provincial estate crop services to the project implementing
unit is delayed and is expected to take place shortly.
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents. The project has made a good start including the
nurseries establishment, initial planting for the smallholders in West Java,
construction of some roads, estates offices and smallholders' houses.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress in the project continues. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) are still
behind schedule and are now expected to be completed by mid-1982. Most of
of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received
and contracts for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland
vegetables) and for Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agri-
cultural information centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural
Education, Training and Extension have been constructed, furnished and
equipped and two additional centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction.
Extension materials are being produced and distributed from the completed
AICs. Dibursements under the project have been improving consistently.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                       Page 14 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date:  September 21, 1976,
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project management unit now has all six Assistant Directors on
a full-time basis. As of December 1981, the total number of field level
extension workers and middle line extension workers is 11,396 against the
target of 11,620 and of subject matter specialists 399 against the target of
320. All civil works are expected to be completed shortly. Procurement of
all vehicles, equipment and furniture has been completed. In-service train-
ing of extension staff and short-term and long-term courses abroad have been
conducted more or less according to target. The project and all disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by the Closing Date of December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate
crops, livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition
to food crops in 26 provinces. The project management unit now has all six
Assistant Directors, all Divisional Chiefs and all sectional heads, except
two, on full-time basis. As of December 1981, the strength of field level
extension workers (PPL), middle level extension workers (PPM) and subject
matter specialists (PPS) in the thirteen new provinces are 1,705, 356 and
104 against target of 2,956, 1,069 and 318, respectively. The shortfall is
due to difficulties in recruiting PPLs and PPSs for the Other Islands.
Construction of 57 Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 31 RECs
in East Java has been completed. Tenders for all the remaining civil works
are in the process of issue. Procurement of vehicles out of GOI funds in
lagging behind. In some provinces the Training and Visit system has also
been introduced for subsectors other than food crops.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going



ANNEX II
- 39 -                        Page 15 of 28 pages
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected, as well as a consulting firm to provide technical assistance.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds    $15 Million Loan of
January 15, 1982; Effective Date: March 11, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided and land
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date:  December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Now that the problem of shortage of vehicles has been resolved,
progress with physical implementation and field operations has been good.
Previous delays of about one year, such as those in the agricultural
components of the project, have been reduced to six months. Temporary
financing gaps due to delays in the release of FY81/82 project funds have
largely been covered by the provincial government. The current estimate of
mid-1987 for project completion should be made earlier during the next
supervision mission, if the present momentum is maintained. In the meant
this project is no longer considered a project with major problems.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. The three
field units established under the project in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in



ANNEX II
- 40 _                   Page 16 of 28 pages
project promotion and preparation. On the whole, progress under this project
(SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project has been
fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be fully
disbursed for two years. The Closing Date has been postponed to enable
disbursements for the technical assistance component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project is expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises by the Ministry of
Industry. This is being financed by $6 million from the proceeds of this
loan. Following a slow start, the latter component is beginning to move
forward satisfactorily. The credit component is progressing satisfactorily
and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics started in 1982.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.



ANNEX II
- 41 -                  Page 17 of 28 pages
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Study contracts have been awarded or are being awarded. Disbursements are on
schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in.
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for over two years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. Furniture and equipment procurement has
not commenced. It is unlikely that this component will be completed by the
present Closing Date. The GOI has been informed of the overall status and
urged to take remedial actions.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily.  About 36% of
civil works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished this year. Furniture is
being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule.  The first cycle began in
July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred teacher trainers and
administrators are being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project
studies are nearing completion. While disbursements are currently only 31%
of appraisal estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate consider-
ably during the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disburse-
ment level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.



.ANNE( IL
- 42 -                     Page 18 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. All furniture and equipment are already on site. About 90%
of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets and production and
distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating. The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. On average 45% of construction has been com-
pleted at the 47 project institutions and implementation is well ahead of
schedule. Disbursements exceeded the revised estimate by more than 200% by
March 31, 1982. Technical assistance is now well underway, fellowship
utilization remains up to schedule, and the curriculum is being revised.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. Arrangements for physical development are about
six months behind schedule except at the University of Indonesia. The addi-
tional land required for the University of Gadjah Mada and the new site for
the University of Andalas have been acquired.  Short lists of campus planning
and architectural consultants for all the universities are being finalized.
The initiation of technical assistance provisions are about fifteen months
behind schedule. A contract is being negotiated with an external agency to
administer the program of fellowships and visiting professors. Two contracts
are being finalized with the British Council for the training of university
administrators and textbook editors. There have been no indications to
suggest that project costs will be other than estimated at appraisal.



43                        ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 is expected to be in
commercial operation around July 1982.  The associated studies have been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the ori,
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design;
and (d) energy pricing study. Construction work at the site has been delayed
by about 15 months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is
expected in July 1983. Construction of the associated transmission lines is
progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has progressed to the point of selection of a suit-
able site.  Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have
been signed, and work is progressing satisfactorily. There has been no
progress on item (d) so far.



- 44 -                          ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project continues to encounter a number of problems and slipped
nearly eleven months behind schedule by September 1981 compared to eight
months in May 1981. However, progress since then has improved and the
estimated delay as of January 1982 was 48 weeks. The main causes of the delay
were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy performance of the
local contractor for piling work.  Most contract awards have now been made and
the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is expected to be October
1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the appraisal estimates, are in
line with the revised projections prepared in July 1981. The project cost is
expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. two
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized by May 1982. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and
the transmission lines is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.  Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and has encoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels which are
crucial to achieve river diversion planned end-May 1982. However, during 1982
steps are being taken by the GOI to divert the river and modify the later
construction program to ensure that original construction targets are met.
Other project subcomponents are progressing satisfactorily. No cost or
unanticipated time overruns are expected.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $30 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
No problems are foreseen at this stage.



- 45 -                   ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
The project would provide indigenous coal as a substitute for oil
(mainly for power generation in West Java) and strengthen the institutions
involved in Indonesia's coal mining sector. The project consists of: an
expansion of the existing coal mine and the provision of the necessary
infrastructure at Bukit Asam; the upgrading of the railway link to Panjang;
and the provision of a ship for the transportation of coal across the Sunda
Strait to Suralaya, together with associated terminal.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982.  Of 415 ha of raw land earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms. At full capacity production, employment is
expected to be around 23,000 workers; 9,700 of whom have been hired so far.
Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in protracted disburse-
ment of the credit and substantially higher cost than estimated at
appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been satisfactory. Some
adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies were nevertheless
called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last supervision
mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.6 ha of the Pulo Gadung Industrial
Estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole adminis-
trator.  The Closing Date of the Credit was therefore postponed by two years
to December 31, 1982, reallocating the remaining funds for the establishment
of the EPZ. However, development of the EPZ has been delayed because the
required Presidential Decree and subsequent operating license by the
Department of Trade and Cooperatives have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. BAPINDO is making
good progress in implementing the General Improvement Program provided under
the project -which involves major institutional reforms and wider delegation of
authority to branches. Commitments have increased rapidly since the last
supervision mission. Disbursements have also caught up and are expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472  Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
On-going activities comprising training, population education and research are
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1982. A loan saving of $7.0 million
has been reallocated for the purchase of equipment in support of project
activities and procurement is expected to be completed by December 1982. Only
about $10.3 million, or 42%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A sizeable
proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date, but not
the full loan amount. The GOI does not intend to request an extension of the
Closing Date.
Loan No. 1869  Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
.March 31, 1985
While some progress has been made on the implementation of non-
construction components, civil works have experienced start-up delays due to
(a) a protracted process of hiring consultants to prepare building plans and
contract documents, (b) difficulties of land acquisition, (c) inadequate
staff, and (d) failure to make adequate provisions in the budget for the first
year of project activities. Consultants have been engaged and contractors are
expected to be awarded in July 1982 and construction is schedule to start in
August. A sufficient number of building sites have now been acquired. The
staff dealing with civil works has been augmented by detaching four engineers
fron the Ministry of Public Works to assist the National Family Planning
Coordinating Board with civil works. Adequate budgetary provisions have been
made. Initial delays in physical implementation are reflected in slow
disbursement. The Bank is intensifying supervision efforts in order to
accelerate physical progress and improve the rate of disbursement.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Most of the civil works are completed and the buildings are
functioning. The ongoing construction work is scheduled to be completed by
the end of 1982. Staff training, both in-country and abroad, is proceeding
rapidly, as well as the use of consultants. Many of the on-going activities



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
are additional to the original project activities as a result of the
reallocation of loan savings of $4.0 million. They are, however, expected to
be completed by December 1982. Sustained efforts are being made to help
expedite the implementation of these activities.  Disbursement is lagging
somewhat because only $6.0 million, or 46% of the loan, has been disbursed.
When the on-going activities are completed towards the end of 1982,
disbursement should rise sharply.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities.  Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July
1981 and is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.



ANNEX II
- 48 -                    Page 24 of 28 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date has been postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work has
now been started on nearly all project components, and a firm action program
has been set up for the bridge replacement program and the last consultancy
in the original program. There is still a reasonable chance of completing
the project with a total delay of only one year. The Provincial Departments
of Public Works programs of support works were just started in January
1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road maintenance equipment
had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to
misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.



49                        ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date:  February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations are underway.  Bid opening
for the four sections of road works is somewhat behind schedule but is now
scheduled for late May 1982. Land acquisition has been completed up to and
including negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is
impending.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and support a rural
road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian provinces.
The project also contains components for training and technical assistance.
Implementation of the various project components is still at an early stage.
Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and maintenance
equipment and bid evaluation is being carried out at present. Steps have
been taken for hiring consultants to provide technical assistance to the
district public works acquires and to assist the Directorate General of
Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Commitment of funds for
ship procurement, delivery and rehablitation has reached $46.8 million of the
$47.4 million allocated. All but $1.0 million of the balance, which is
allocated for technical assistance and preparation of the proposed Maritime
Transport project has been committed. The Closing Date of the loan has been
extended by one year to December 31, 1982. Funds amounting to $5.8 million
have been received by P.T. Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PANN) the
shipping development corporation and project entity for ship procurement, from
insurance on the loss of one vessel financed by the loan. These funds will be
utilized to procure replacement tonnage as if they were original loan funds.
All PANN financial and physical operations appear to be satisfactory.



ANNEX II
_ 50 -                     Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. The market for tourism to Bali
has held up well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard
hotels in Bali exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by
Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The
negotiations with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village are underway with
the expectation that a final agreement will be reached in May, before the
loan Closing Date of June 30, 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for the provision of about 19 health clinics
(out of 45 planned), the physical program, covering about 3,435 ha kampungs
(neighborhoods) in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya, is essentially complete.



- 51 -                ANNEX II
Page 27 of 28 pages
Supplementary technical assistance studies related to future projects
preparation and utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently
agreed upon. To facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in
December 1981, extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to
June 30, 1983.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities (KIP) includ-
ing roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-
income kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha),
Surabaya (580 ha) Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta
(170 ha), benefitting a total population of about 2.25 million. A
comprehensive solid waste management program is also included in Jakarta
and Surabaya, together with a drainage program in Surabaya. About 775
community health workers are to be trained in the above two cities to work
in the improved kampungs. The KIP component of the project is nearing
completion in all project cities. The implementation progress of sectoral
components (solid wastes and drainage), even though better than in the
previous years, has been affected by land acquisition problems, lack of
counterpart financing and a less-than-satisfactory project management.
These problems are being resolved and the progress of the components should
accelerate during FY82/83. The overall project is expected to be completed
by mid-1984, still within the appraisal completion date.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project expands the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter
programs evolved in earlier projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and
the major cities of East Java to nine provincial capital cities spread
throughout Indonesia. Basic infrastructure and housing facilities will be
provided through slum improvement and sites and services developments on Z.
total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an estimated 500,000 persons. Improve-
ments to citywide infrastructure deficiencies in main drainage, water supply
and solid waste disposal will be studied and implemented in three cities. A
national urban mapping program covering 125 cities will be undertaken
providing base data for future city planning, land registration and valuation
programs. Institutional development is a prominent feature and technical
assistance for management, training and feasibility studies to various urban
authorities and agencies will be provided.  Physical provisions under the
kampung (neighborhood) improvement program have been underway in the project
cities and improvement in their management is expected from the field
appointment of consultants in March 1982. Field implementation of the sites
and services scheme in these project cities commenced in September 1981.



-52-                   ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
The technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily with the
appointment of all crucial management advisory staff completed.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) most of the International Competitive Bidding
procurement contracts for tne supply of pipes and materials are currently
under execution. The execution of the civil works in the project cities has
just commenced. The organizational and management training for the WEs has
been underway since September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 53 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  Two years
(b)  Project prepared by:                  Ministry of Industry
Perum Perhutani
Perum Kertas Basuki Rachmat
(c)  First presented to the Bank:          November 1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:        February 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:            August 1982
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:                 November 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The incorporation of KKC as a legal entity, and the employment of
engineering consultants for KKC are conditions of effectiveness
(paras. 36 and 46); and
(b)  By February 1, 1983, consultants will be employed to assist the
GOI in the preparation of a pulp and paper restructuring study
(para. 44).



- 54 -                      ANNEX IV
INDONES IA
CENTRAL JAVA PULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
(US million)
Bank Fiscal             Quarterly Disbursements       Cumulative Disbursement
Year/Quarter              Amount        % Total         Amount       % Total
1983    II                0.1            1.8           0.1             1.8
III                0.6           10.9           0.7            12.7
IV                1.3           23.7           2.0            36.4
1984     I                 1.1          20.0           3.1            56.4
II                1.0           18.2           4.1            74.6
III                0.8           14.5           4.9            89.1
IV                0.6           10.9           5.5           100.0
5.5         100.0



IBRD 16438
03'0     C,irbon                                                               I620                                                                           I                             NDONESIA                            JoNe 902
c                                                          ~~~~~~~CENTRAL  JAVA
P.<   i   41\   tA!  -  7 ['t7   '  7 aPULP AND PAPER ENGINEERING PROJECT
6~~~~~ / _                                                                       B   1,ee.     ', -    - 0 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
)   S   Walet  InlokK  ond  T{QAIFAIII  PIOKetonggungon             /                                                                                                           BOEOIS
" 0        -%                                   WZ                                                                                                                                                                                    OOon h   P l   o   a     M l  ' R J'~- _ _ _ _  E
7k1~                                                                                                                     . .. .. ./ .. ..1
wr rhhrh o-         x7                                                                                               0-0f
7,~~~~~~~~~~~~
.         /..'........                                                                          ,                                      /~; Wo9sbo
"xA.,~~~~~ty
*  N         /L?N<9~~~~~~0~Ov&                                                 q        - A                                        ~ 
U    Popurod Peip & P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~  ~ ~ ~                                                                         7        Kutow.nongu/T~~~~~~~W.~../
N    WUU,I,URO USL leone,, EonI                                                                 k               b.igg.
OUe71r  ,Pped Oe  ,                                   ,~                                                                                                                        >
0nrhU,Qn Pr0                                                                                                                ______________________________________-__I___
______ Wore, Mob fUr COy of 01oop  -n   Uo,I.ropr  U  5         6           15         20 NOES                                         - NUILAUD'-, .  -/ PHILIPPINES~~~~~~~Kut
Punping SroIrpu   -~   U,,~                                                                                                                                  \gMUNE~~                   p,a,-ILICAP
PrIorono -d (Ohn  Pi-r'   ~UU                                                               UL                           0KLMTE                                               ,~o- 
PrUr.dEr* M--Po,r,lEor.,r.rereee.on.ln,IeU..OeOeemeK-                                                                                                                                              V -'
EMUrrU                                   NeoUR d,rd'r
A~~~~~~ h,~~~~~~~~~ PI-I.I.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        1000C A.                                                          OUL



