LOAN NUMBER 2199 IND
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        )8                           , 1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   J0640.OW    /$    , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) any financing so provided by the Bank would be refunded
in whole or in part, if the Bank so requests, out of the proceeds
of any Loan by the Bank or Credit by the International Develop-
ment Association which may later be granted for the construction
of the facilities to be engineeered under the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PP" means Perum Perhutani, a state-owned company
established under Government Regulation No. 15/1972 vested w4th
the management of forest resources in Java.


﻿-2-
(b) "PKBR" means Perum Kertas Basuki Rachmat, a state-owned
company established under Government Regulation No. 58/1971
vested with the ownership and operation of a pulp and paper mill
located in Banyuwangi, East Java.
(c) "KKC" means P.T. Kertas Kraft Cilacap, a state-owned
company (Perseroan Terbatas) to be established pursuant to Sec-
tion 6.01 (a) of this Agreement as provided in Government Regula-
tion No. 2/1982.
(d) "KKC Governing Laws" means the Charter of KKC dated
June 24, 1982.
(e) "Regulation" means any one of the government regula-
tions referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this Section.
(f)  "Project Area" means: (i) the area located at Cilicap,
Central Java, in which the engineering works described in Part
A.1 of Schedule 2 are to be carried out; and (ii) the forett
areas in Central Java managed by PP in which the activities des-
cribed in Part B of the Project are to be carried out.
(g) "Consultants' Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to five
million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 3 -
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to eighty one
thousand two hundred eighty one dollars ($81,281). The fee shall
be payable in such zurrency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
deteriined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)   "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of


﻿-4-
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the interest rate of
all Interest Periods commencing in 1982 shall be 11.43% per annum.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the
Project and cause KKC to carry out Parts A and C.1 of the Project
and PP to carry out Parts B and C.2 of the Project, all with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project and
without limitation or restriction upon the generality of Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out or cause
to be carried out, a staffing program acceptable to the Bank,
which shall include inter alia the establishment and maintenance
of a Project Management Team within KKC consisting of duly
qualified staff in adequate numbers and comprising, as may be
required, staff assigned from PKBR as well as other staff
recruited by KfC.
(c) For the purposes of Parts A and C.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available to KKC as equity the portion of the


﻿- 5 -
proceeds of the Loan allocated under categories (1)(a), (2)(a)
and (3)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
(d) For the purposes of Parts B and C.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available to PP as equity the portion of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated under categories (1)(b), (2)(b)
and (3)(b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
(e) For the purposes of coordinating and supervising the
activities under the Project, the Borrower shall establish, not
later than January 1, 1983, and thereafter maintain until the
completion of the Project, a Project Steering Committee within
its Ministry of Industry and consisting inter alia of representa-
tives of its National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Agriculture,, KKC and
PP.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed the following consultants whose qualifications, ex-
perience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, such consultants to be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the Consultants' Guidelines:
(i) engineering   consultants  to   serve  as  Technical
Advisors to assist KKC in carrying out the
engineering works, preparation of tender documents
and bid evaluation under Part A.1 of the Project,
and training under part C.1 of the Project;
(ii) forestry consultants, to be employed not later
than February 1, 1983, to      serve  as Technical
Advisors to assist PP in preparing the wood supply
program under Part B of the Project, and training
under Part C.2 of the Project;
(iii) management and legal consultants, to assist KKC in
contract negotiations related to the future con-
struction and operation of the pulp and paper mill
referred to in Part A.1 of the Project; and
(iv) consultants, to be employed not later than Feb-
ruary 1, 1983, to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the study under Part D of the Project.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The Borrower shall, and shall cause KKC and PP to,
cooperate fully with such consultants in the performance of their
services for the Project and make available to them all inform-
ation relevant to the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, copies of the documents prepared
for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans,
designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs,
in such number as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) With respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the docu-
ments referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of all Parts of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time exchange views on said recommendations and
conclusion;
(ii) upon completion of Part B of the Project, tho
Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the recom-
mendations and conclusions relating thereto, and
shall, upon the Bank's approval thereof, establish
a timetable, acceptable to the Bank, for the
implementation of the wood supply program prepared
under Part B of the Project;
(iii) the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be fur-
nished to the Bank for its review and approval, by
February 1, 1983, a description of the courses and
other activities proposed as part of the training
programs to be carried out under Part C of the
Project, and shall, upon the Bank's approval, ini-
tiate the implementation of such program; and
(iv) upon completion of the study under Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall consult with the Bank
on the recommendations and conclusions relating
thereto, and shall take such measures as may be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank to
stimulate economic development and financial pro-
fitability of the pulp and paper industry in the
Borrower's territory.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all such action
required on its part as shall be necessary for KKC and PP to
acquires as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the carrying out of the Project
and for the construction and operation of the paper mill referred
to in Part A of the Project, and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices, the expenditures incurred by the Borrower for the Project
and the use of the proceeds of the loan therefor; (ii) enable the
Bank's representatives to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and inspect any relevant records and docu-
ments related to the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan; and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank quarterly progress reports concerning the activities
carried out under the respective Parts of the Project.
Section 3.07. Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract
for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whon the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01.   (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-8-
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institu-
tion performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained   records  adequate  tu   reflect  in  accordance  with
consistently   maintained    sound   accounting    practices   the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part D of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Part D of the Project or any part
thereof.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower shall cause KKC and PP, respectively, to
maintain separate accounts in respect of expenditures for their
respective Parts of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause KKC and .P, respectively, to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their res-
pective operations and financial condition.
(d) The Borrower shall cause KKC and PP each: (i) to have
its accounts (including the separate accounts referred to in Sec-
tion 4.02 (b) of this Agreement) and financial statements (ba-
lance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles cons:'.stently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) to
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of KKC and PP, respectively,
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) KKC to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other adequate provisions for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice; and
(b) KKC and PP each to carry on its activities, conduct its
affairs and operate and maintain its properties in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, business, technical and
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take all
such actions within its powers to cause KKC to: (i) maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on operations in accor-
dance with the KKC Governing Regulations; and (ii) except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, acquire, maintain and renew all


﻿- 10 -
rights, powers, privileges, licenses and franchises owned or held
by it and necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) Except in the normal course of its business, the Bor-
rower shall ensure that KKC shall not, without the prior approval
of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any
of its other properties or assets which shall or may adversely
affect, in a substantial manner, the efficient carrying on of its
business.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) an action shall have been taken for the dissolution or
disestablishment of KKC or PP, or for the suspension of all or
part of their respective operations; and
(b) an action shall have been taken to amend, waive or
repeal any Regulation or KKC Governing Laws or any provision
thereof without the Bank's consent if, in the opinion of the
Bank, such amendment, waiver or repeal, would materially and
adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any of the events
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Datz; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) KKC has been duly and legally incorporated, and is
operating, as a Perseroan Terbatas, vrested with the functions


﻿- 11 -
related to the engineering, construction, ownership and manage-
ment of the pulp and paper mill referred to under Part A of the
Project; and
(b) the engineering consultants referred to in paragraph
(i) of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement have been employed in
accordance with the provisions therein set forth.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely that KKC has been duly and legally
incorporated as a Perseroan Terbatas and its Charter approved in
accordance with all applicable laws and procedures of the Bor-
rower.
SectioLi 6.03. The date I6!A&-Ay 1/983, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                         DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319


﻿- 12 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  j /.        h   LL
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                                  100% of foreign
Services:                                    expenditures
(a) for KKC           3,500,000
(b) for PP               50,000
(2) Goods:                                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(a) equipment            200,000             and 100% of
and spare                               local expendi-
parts for                               tures (ex-
KKC                                      factory)
(b) spare parts          50,000
for PP
(3) Training
(a) for KKC           300V000              100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) for PP            450,000
(4) Consulants'              300,000              100% of foreign
Services                                     expenditures
required under
Part D of the
Project
(5) Fee                       81,281              Amount due


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(6) Unallocated              568,719
TOTAL            5,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of pacagraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to


﻿- 15 -
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   1.   The   basic    engineering,   prequalification   of
suppliers, drafting of tender documents, evaluation of bids,
preparation of cost estimates, provision of technical assistance,
and contractual, legal and organizational arrangements, all for
the construction in Cilacap (Central Java) of an integrated
large-scale wood-based pulp and paper mill with an estimated
capacity of about 106,000 tons per year.
2. The provision of office and other equipment related
to the initial operation of KKC.
Part B:   The preparation by PP of a wood-supply program for the
provision of wood to KKC in the area in which the paper mill
referred to in Part A.1 is to be constructed, including the
preparation   of  forest   plantation,  wood   cutting   and  wood
transportation programs, forest road designs, and an evaluation
of optimal logging methods and environmental protection measures.
Part C:    1. A training program for KKC in plant engineering,
mill management and other fields related to the pulp and paper
industry.
2. A training program for PP in cable logging
techniques and other fields related to wood supply operations and
the provision of spare parts for existing forestry equipment to
be used by PP for such training.
Part D:   A sector study of the pulp and paper industry to: (i)
identify development strategies, policy measures and incentive
schemes to encourage and ensure a rational development of said
industry; and (ii) establish the economic viability of existing
small-scale pulp and paper operations in Indonesia.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1988
through   May 1, 2002                      185,000
On November 1, 2002                              135,000
*   The figures in    this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                       Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on
the day of prepayment multi-
plied by:
Not more than three years                               0.15
before maturity
More than three years but not                           0.30
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                             0.55
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                          0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                         0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                                1.00
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.   Contracts for equipment and     spare parts under    Category
(2)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement shall be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping
after solicitation and comparison of at least 3 price quotations
from reputable suppliers.
2.   Contracts for spare parts under Category (2)(b) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, which
are proprietary in nature, may be procured from the suppliers of
the original equipment; provided, however, that prior to the
placing of any orders, the Bank shall have approved said
supplier, and quantities of, and price quotations for, the spare
parts proposed to be so procured.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /f/5'   day of &Y'-, 198
FOR SECRETARY


