Report No. PID8180
Project Name                     Peru Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples (@)
Development Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Other Social Sector
Project ID                       PEPE60499
Borrower(s)                      Government of Peru
Implementing Agency              PROMUDEH
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 14, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         April 19, 1999
Projected Board Date             January 16, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Issues: The main socioeconomic and legal issues identified during
consultations with indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples of the coast, Sierra,
and Amazon regions that the project will confront are: a) A lack of economic
options in the Sierra region has resulted in large-scale migration to the
coast and urban areas. This migration has not reduced poverty nor improved
the well-being of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples as a whole. b) An
inconsistent legal and institutional framework towards indigenous peoples
that guarantees them neither secure access to their land nor the control over
the use of natural resources and traditional knowledge. c) A persistent
disparity between urban/rural and indigenous/non-indigenous poverty. While
there has been some reduction in rural poverty in recent years, most economic
gains have occured in urban areas. This has led to a higher concentration of
poverty in rural compared to urban areas. Almost 50 percent of the poor and
60 percent of the severe poor in Peru lived in rural areas in 1997, whereas
more than two-thirds of the total population lives in urban areas. In
addition, the indigenous population is falling further behind the non-
indigenous population in terms of poverty. Indigenous peoples were 40 percent
more likely to be poor than the non-indigenous population in 1994 and 49
percent more like to be poor in 1997 (see Poverty and Social Developments in
Peru, 1994-1997). d) A significant gender disparity in the levels of poverty,
income-generating potential, and community decision-making roles. Past
efforts to extend technical and other assistance to indigenous populations in
Peru have tended to overlook the gender dimension of poverty, and gender
considerations have not been adequately taken into consideration in project
preparation. The productive, reproductive, and community-wide gender roles,
responsibilities, and constraints of both individuals and communities must be
taken into account to ensure the greatest degree of success and equity in the
development process within the context of the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
communities and their self-defined needs.
Government strategy: In 1996 the Peruvian government created the Ministry of
Women and Human Development (PROMUDEH), which seeks to establish, implement,
and promote strategies for the inclusion of vulnerable groups in the



development process. PROMUDEH recently created a Multisectoral Commission for
Indigenous Affairs (CAI), composed of representatives from the public sector
and indigenous organizations to promote better coordination between the
demands of indigenous peoples and the services offered by State agencies. CAI
seeks to provide the GoP with a unit that will allow different ministries and
agencies within the government to coordinate development efforts for the
indigenous peoples of Peru. This will help avoid repeating past experiences
in which development efforts were duplicated or contradicted by different
government bodies. The commission's purpose is also to increase indigenous
peoples participation in project design and implementation.
The Technical Secretariat for Indigenous Affairs (SETAI) is a permanent part
of the new organizational structure of PROMUDEH. One of the conditions of
the Bank to the GoP for lending for an indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples
project was to have the GoP provide a position of greater stature to this
division dealing with indigenous and Afro-Peruvian affairs. SETAI was
allotted powers that provide it with the capacity to orient, coordinate and
articulate policies and multisectoral actions for the human development of
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian populations. In addition, SETAI has proved to
be an innovative technical secretariat charged with promoting participatory
development. Rather than initially providing indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples with direct financing for sub-projects, SETAI will facilitate the
process of meeting the demands and requests of their communities and
organizations. The goal is for indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and
organizations to have the capacity to design, develop, and manage their own
development initiatives and projects, providing these communities with a
greater sense of ownership and empowerment in managing their own development,
and helping to reduce the need for direct interventions by State entities.
Financing will be provided by cooperating agencies following the methodology
of this project.
Both CAI and SETAI will help develop and strengthen the organizational
capacity of Peru's indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples, thereby enhancing
their ability to take development into their own hands, increasing their
self-sufficiency, and improving their ability to achieve sustainable economic
growth. This project, as well as the project for Indigenous Management of
Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon, to be financed by the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF), fits within this strategy of institutional
strengthening and capacity-building. By training communities and
organizations to efficiently design and implement projects that respond to
the self-defined needs of their communities, the Bank is creating an
effective system for working with partners at the grassroots level in Peru.
Based on this project's successes, the Bank will be able to contribute to the
GoP a modus operandi for promoting projects that address the needs
articulated by communities and organizations rather than providing top-down
development options based on the perceptions of outsiders. This project will
facilitate the implementation of current and future Bank projects as well as
other projects for indigenous peoples by (a) providing communities and
organizations with the capability of presenting proposals and implementing
community development sub-projects, and (b) providing an effective example of
grassroots community development sub-projects that can be replicated by the
Bank, the Peruvian government, and other institutions.
The project will also support revision of the existing indigenous legal
framework as well as development of legislation for Peru's indigenous
- 2-



peoples. The legislation will be based on standards set in ILO Convention 169
(ratified by Peru), and other international instruments such as the draft
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the
Organization of American States' American Declaration of the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples project, and consultations with the indigenous peoples of
Peru. The legislation's main components will focus on (a) self-definition of
indigenous peoples of Peru, (b) collective land tenure rights that are
inalienable and unprescriptable, (c) autonomous privileges of indigenous
communities and their role in local political structures, (d) ownership and
access to natural and other resources and intellectual property rights, and
(e) cultural patrimony.
2. Objectives
The project objective is to strengthen indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
communities and organizations so that they can design and implement community
development sub-projects, better articulate their proposals, and effectively
utilize services offered by the State and other sectors within civil society
by promoting innovative methods through a "learning by doing" process. The
project will be implemented in five pilot zones and involve a gender-
sensitive methodology with the active participation of indigenous and Afro-
Peruvian women's organizations. The project will achieve its objectives
through: (a) the strengthening of the organizational, institutional,
technical and entrepreneurial capabilities of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
communities and organizations, as well as participating government agencies;
(b) the preparation of community development sub-projects based on
participatory designs, and organization of technical proposals with the
required pre-investment studies; and (c) the implementation of sub-projects
with financing from the funding agencies.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
n/a for a LIL.
4. Description
The project is composed of the following six components:
1. Institutional Strengthening of SETAI and the Multisectoral Commission of
Indigenous Affairs (CAI). This component will finance minor office supplies
and equipment, Technical Group (TG) staff, operating costs, training,
studies, workshops, Geographic Information System (GIS) software, and
exchanges with other institutions working on capacity-building of indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian peoples.
2. Capacity Building of Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Communities and
Organizations. This component will provide training in (a) participatory
planning, preparation, implementation and maintenance of community sub-
projects, (b) financial management and administration, (c) management of
entrepreneurial and income-generating activities, (d) cultural patrimony, and
(e) development of community human resources, including organizational,
technical, and legal training reinforcement.
3. Technical Assistance and Legal Reforms. This component will provide
technical assistance to revise the legal framework regarding indigenous
peoples, and finance consultation workshops for the development of such a
- 3-



legal framework (see Annex 14).
4. Information and Awareness Campaign. This component will provide training
to State agencies and civil society representatives regarding indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian culture, rights, issues and proposals, in addition to
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) programs, in the five pilot
zones.
5. Community Development Sub-projects. This component will finance (a)
feasibility and pre-investment studies; (b) preparation of technical
proposals; (c) promotion of meetings between State agencies, such as the OPDs
in PROMUDEH, to agree on financial resource allocation; and (d)
identification of innovative community sub-projects through a participatory
"learning by doing" process in accordance with the Operational Manual.
6. Project Management: Monitoring and Evaluation procedures will be used in
accordance with quantitative M&E Bank procedures for procurement,
disbursement, accounting and finances, and to monitor the implementation and
impact of the training and community development sub-projects, analyzed
separately by gender.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                       1.5
IBRD                             5
IDA
BENEFICIARIES                    0.2
Total Project Cost               6.7
6. Implementation
The implementation arrangements include two types of activities described in
the components:
(a)     Capacity building of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and
organizations. In each zone a diagnostic will be conducted to assess training
needs and determine the organizational capacity of participating
organizations and communities involved in the project. The organizations and
communities will be classified into one of three levels of competency, and
those with a higher capacity will be used to train and assist organizations
in their zone that have a lower capacity. Based on this assessment, NGOs,
municipalities, state entities and communities with higher institutional
capacity will be identified to be contracted by SETAI to carry out needed
training activities. All technical activities will be reflected in a zonal
implementation action plan to be submitted to CAI for review and approval.
Monitoring and evaluation will be a constant activity during the training
implementation to improve training activities and determine impact. Within
each region and at the national level, the executing agencies (communities,
NGOs, municipalities, OPDs, etc.) and communities involved in providing
training will meet at regular intervals to compare methodologies as well as
successful and unsuccessful experiences. This process will provide an
opportunity to combine different success strategies and allow the ZF to adapt
and modify its training strategy based on the evolving "best practices".
(b)     Community development sub-projects. Existing community development
projects in different stages of development as well as newly proposed sub-
- 4 -



projects focused on the following issues can be implemented with financing
from cooperating agencies: productive projects, ethno- and eco-tourism,
natural resource management, training, microenterprises, etc. After the ZF
selects the sub-projects, a consultant will develop a participatory action
plan, as well as pre-investment studies and technical proposals, and along
with SETAI/TG, will seek financial assistance and approval from State
agencies, such as the OPDs in PROMUDEH. SETAI will enter into agreements with
cooperating agencies under the terms and conditions specified in the
operational manual. Communities and organizations that are operating at the
highest level of competency will be able to directly implement sub-projects.
However, communities and organizations that have lower competency ratings
will need to work with an approved NGO or with a higher level community or
organization to implement their sub-projects. Following completion of the
project, a report will be submitted to the ZF by the beneficiary community or
organization.
7. Sustainability
n/a for a LIL.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Rural areas in the Coast, Sierra and Amazon regions have long been considered
extremely impoverished, yet these regions are rich in cultural and natural
resources. The extraction of natural resources (minerals, petroleum, and
high-value wood products) and the unplanned occupation of rural areas have
caused heavy environmental degradation, including a serious loss of
biodiversity. While the majority of the rural population did not benefit
substantially from the use of their natural resources, they have born the
effects of the associated environmental impacts. In most cases even the
measures to mitigate these impacts, such as the establishment of protected
areas, were taken without consultation and participation from local
communities. This project will test promising methods of building
communities' institutional capacity so that they can participate more
effectively in their own development and derive greater benefit from the
sustainable economic use of their resources.
Many past development efforts by the Peruvian government have relied on a
top-down approach, thereby failing to address the self-defined needs of
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples. One strategy of this project is to
promote the active participation of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples,
making them designers and implementers of projects with multi-sectoral
financing and in coordination with SETAI. Another strategy is to directly
strengthen the organizational structure of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples. Strengthening and empowering indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
communities and organizations to design, implement, and manage projects is
expected to give them a greater sense of ownership in the development process
and reduce the need for direct interventions by State entities.
Historically, women have been underrepresented in formal and informal
decision-making processes at virtually all levels of society and have not
participated fully in the development process. Yet women are usually the
primary care providers for children, have significant community-wide
responsibilities, and are often directly involved in productive activities.
In the past the Peruvian government's development programs have not taken
into account the gender dimension of poverty. A third strategy of this
- 5 -



project will be to promote greater gender equity across all levels of
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian society, as well as greater sensitivity to
gender issues in the development efforts of the Peruvian government.
This project is being prepared in coordination with a GEF grant for
Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon. Even though
both projects are being prepared as independent interventions, their
objectives are highly complementary. The GEF project would finance (a)
participatory identification and establishment of approximately five new
protected areas in the Peruvian Amazon, (b) development of management plans
and committees to allow local indigenous communities to manage the protected
areas, (c) promotion of projects for sustainable use of biodiversity
resources, and (d) monitoring and evaluation (biological and social). Of the
five zones of intervention identified by GEF/INRENA, two coincide with those
identified for implementation of this project.
The Peruvian government and the Bank have selected the following strategy for
the Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project: (a) beginning
with an investment of US$5 million through a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL), build capacity and manage risks (using innovative methods) with the
goal of building organizational, administrative, technical, and
entrepreneurial capacity to initiate the more ambitious phases of the program
that will follow; (b) support and advance this indigenous peoples development
initiative and attempt to foster both actions and multisectoral coordination
in order to design the legal framework for indigenous affairs; (c) respond to
the proposals of representatives from indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples
for capacity building in organizational, technical, administrative and
entrepreneurial skills for community self-development through a process of
"learning by doing"; (d) recognize that the LIL is the first phase of a long-
term program, and that if the LIL results are successful, a second phase may
be financed; and e) the LIL would complement the planned GEF operation by
strengthening the organizational capacity of indigenous organizations
involved in the management of the communal reserves to be financed in the
Amazon region, in the two coinciding intervention zones (Sira and Santiago-
Comaina).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  This project has been assigned to category B by the
environment specialists in the Environmentally and Socially Sustainable
Development SMU for the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The major focus
of this project will be on capacity building, with a lesser focus on the
design and mainstreaming of community development sub-projects. This latter
component will promote various activities, including sustainable land use
practices. The project would not fund community sub-projects that could be
considered environmentally sensitive based on project eligibility criteria to
be indicated in the Project Operational Manual.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 6 -



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Juan Martinez
Telephone: 011-506-255-4011
Fax:         011-506-222-6556
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 17, 1999.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



