Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19867-PE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS AND AFRO-PERUVIAN PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 5, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1999)
Currency Unit = Soles (S/)
S/1.00= US$ 0.29
US$ 1.00 = S/3.46
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDESEP          Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Jungle
(Asociaci6n Interetnica de Desarrollo de la Selva Peruana)
ADECAP           Peruvian Association for the Defense and Development of Peasant
Communities
(Asociaci6n de Defensa y Desarrollo de las Comunidades Campesinas del
Perui)
CAI              Multisectoral Commission of Indigenous Affairs
(Comisi6n Multisectorial de Asuntos Indigenas)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
COFIDE           Development Finance Corporation
(Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo)
CONAM            National Environmental Council
(Consejo Nacional del Ambiente)
CONAP            National Amazon Confederation of Peru
(Confederaci6n de Nacionalidades Amazonicas del Peru)
COOPOP           Popular Cooperation
(Cooperaci6n Popular)
CTAR             Regional Administration Transitory Committee
(Comisi6n Transitoria de Administrati6n Regional)
FEAS             Project for Strengthening Agricultural Extension
(Proyecto para Fortalecer la Extensi6n Agricola)
FONCODES         National Fund for Social Compensation and Development
(Fondo Nacional de Compensaci6n y Desarrollo Social)
GDP              Gross domestic product
GEF              Global Environmental Facility
Vice President:    David de Ferranti, LCRVP
Country Director:   Isabel Guerrero, LCC6C
Sector Director:   John Redwood, LCSES
Task Manager:   Juan Martinez, LCSES



GOP              Government of Peru
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
INIA             National Agrarian Research Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6n Agraria)
INRENA           National Natural Resources Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales)
lIP              Indigenous Institute of Peru
(Instituto Indigenista Peruano)
LCSES            Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management
Unit, Latin America & Caribbean Region (World Bank)
LIL              Learning and Innovation Loan
MAG              Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministerio de Agricultura)
MEF              Ministry of Economy and Finance
(Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas)
MTR              Midterm review
NGOs             Nongovernmental organizations
OPDs             Decentralized Public Organisms
(Organismos Pblicos Descentralizados)
PAR              Repopulation and Development of Emergency Zones Support Program
(Programa de Apoyo al Repoblamiento y Desarrollo de Zonas de
Emergencia)
PETT             Special Project for Land Titling
(Proyecto Especial de Titulacion de Tierras y Catastro Rural)
PRES             Ministry of the Presidency
(Ministerio de la Presidencia)
PROMUDEH         Ministry for Women and Human Development
(Ministerio de Promocion de la Mujer y del Desarrollo Humano)
PRONAA           National Nutritional Assistance Program
(Programa Nacional de Asistencia Alimentaria)
PRONAMACHCS National Project for the Management of Watershed Basins and Soil
Conservation



(Programa Nacional de Manejo de Cuencas Hidrograficas y Conservaci6n
de Suelos)
SENASA           National Agrarian Sanitation Service
(Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria)
SETAI            Technical Secretariat of Indigenous Affairs
(Secretaria Tecnica de Asuntos Indigenas)
SINAMA           National Environmental System
(Sistema Nacional del Medio Ambiente)
SOE              Statement of Expenses
TG               Technical Group
TOR              Terms of Reference
(Terminos de Referencia)
ZF               Zonal Forum



PERU
INDIGENOUS AND AFRO-PERUVIAN PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                            3
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project        4
4. Learning and innovation expectations                                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                    6
2. institutional and implementation arrangements                         7
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                               10
D. Project Rationale
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                             10
2. Financial                                                            10
3. Technical                                                            11
4. Institutional                                                        11
5. Social                                                               12
6. Environmental assessment                                             13
7. Participatory approach                                               13
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks                                                       14
G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                             15
2. Other                                                                15



H. Readiness for Implementation                                            16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                           16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                            17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                      22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                           24
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                     25
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                 26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                         27
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                       32
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                         33
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                    34
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                              36
Annex 11: Project Implementation Plan                                      38
Annex 12: Areas de Intervencion - Aspectos Operativos                      40
Annex 13: Social Assessment                                                46
Annex 14: Legislative Framework for Indigenous Peoples of Peru             55
MAPS
IBRD 30574 - Density and Diversity of the Indigenous Population
IBRD 30327 - Afro-Peruvian Peoples Distribution
IBRD 30575 - Poverty Map



PERU
Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSES
Date: January 5, 2000                              Team Leader: Juan Martinez
Country Manager/Director: Isabel M. Guerrero       Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P060499                                Sector(s): SY - Other Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
1 Loan          E Credit        El Grant        El Guarantee    l Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0 million
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
ftinancing PIan,   Source                                . _ca_             Fore_           Total
Government                                                       1.30           0.20           1.50
IBRD                                                            4.40            0.60           5.00
IDA
BENEFICIARIES                                                    0.20           0.00           0.20
Total:                                                           5.90           0.80           6.70
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF PERU
Responsible agency: PROMUDEH
CAI/SETAI (Secretaria Tecnica de Asuntos Indigenas)
Address: Jir6n Camana N° 616 - Lima 1, Peru
Contact Person: William Toro, Vice-Minister and Jorge Vega, Secretary General
Tel: 511-428-5467                 Fax: 511-426-3920                 Email: wtoro@lima.promudeh.gob.pe
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY n         2000        2001         2002
Annual      1.0          2.5          1.5|
Cumulative     1.0           3.5          5.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2002
OCS PAD F-fl Odobr,S. I



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project objective is to strengthen indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations so that
they can design and implement community development sub-projects, better articulate their proposals, and
effectively utilize services offered by the State and other sectors within civil society by promoting
innovative methods through a "learning by doing" process. The project will be implemented in five pilot
zones and involve a gender-sensitive methodology with the active participation of indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian women's organizations. The project will achieve its objectives through: (a) the strengthening
of the organizational, institutional, technical and entrepreneurial capabilities of indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations, as well as participating government agencies; (b) the
preparation of community development sub-projects based on participatory designs, and organization of
technical proposals with the required pre-investment studies; and (c) the implementation of sub-projects
with financing from the funding agencies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
a) Number of strengthened and trained indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations that
advance from lower to higher levels of institutional capacity;
b) Number of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations that are operating as project implementers;
c) Number of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian women and women's organizations actively involved in project
implementation;
d) Number of agreements between indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations and funding agencies,
between SETAI and indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations, and between SETAI and other
governmental sectors and NGOs;
e) Number of diagnostics and development plans completed in the five pilot zones;
f) Five Zonal Forums established;
g) Monitoring and evaluation system established;
h) Proposal of comprehensive legal framework for the development of indigenous peoples, prepared in
consultation with indigenous peoples organizations.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 1 6796-PE                      Date of latest CAS discussion: 07/22/97
The proposed project supports the CAS objective of reducing poverty and extreme poverty by building the
capacity of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations to foster their own development.
The project is the first World Bank social sector loan exclusively targeting indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples. Although overall poverty has decreased in Peru, rates of extreme poverty have remained high
among Peru's indigenous peoples. In addressing this problem, it is important to respect regional and ethnic
sociocultural factors and to include indigenous and Afro-Peruvian groups in community and local
organizational development. This will enable indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples to take development
into their own hands in accordance with their own sociocultural norms and thereby attack poverty more
effectively.
In addition, the project will contribute to the four other important strategic areas supported by the CAS:
education, health, rural development, and human capital development. In helping to foster responsive and
- 2-



efficient public sector involvement in poverty alleviation for indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities,
this project will also provide useful lessons that can be used to formulate a national strategy for indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian development that can be applied to other sectors and government agencies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues: The main socioeconomic and legal issues identified during consultations with indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian peoples of the coast, Sierra, and Amazon regions that the project will confront are: a) A
lack of economic options in the Sierra region has resulted in large-scale migration to the coast and urban
areas. This migration has not reduced poverty nor improved the well-being of indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian peoples as a whole. b) An inconsistent legal and institutional framework towards indigenous
peoples that guarantees them neither secure access to their land nor the control over the use of natural
resources and traditional knowledge. c) A persistent disparity between urban/rural and
indigenous/non-indigenous poverty. While there has been some reduction in rural poverty in recent years,
most economic gains have occured in urban areas. This has led to a higher concentration of poverty in rural
compared to urban areas. Almost 50 percent of the poor and 60 percent of the severe poor in Peru lived in
rural areas in 1997, whereas more than two-thirds of the total population lives in urban areas. In addition,
the indigenous population is falling further behind the non-indigenous population in terms of poverty.
Indigenous peoples were 40 percent more likely to be poor than the non-indigenous population in 1994 and
49 percent more like to be poor in 1997 (see Poverty and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-1997). d) A
significant gender disparity in the levels of poverty, income-generating potential, and community
decision-making roles. Past efforts to extend technical and other assistance to indigenous populations in
Peru have tended to overlook the gender dimension of poverty, and gender considerations have not been
adequately taken into consideration in project preparation. The productive, reproductive, and
community-wide gender roles, responsibilities, and constraints of both individuals and communities must be
taken into account to ensure the greatest degree of success and equity in the development process within the
context of the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and their self-defined needs.
Government strategy In 1996 the Peruvian government created the Ministry of Women and Human
Development (PROMUDEH), which seeks to establish, implement, and promote strategies for the inclusion
of vulnerable groups in the development process. PROMUDEH recently created a Multisectoral
Commission for Indigenous Affairs (CAI), composed of representatives from the public sector and
indigenous organizations to promote better coordination between the demands of indigenous peoples and
the services offered by State agencies. CAI seeks to provide the GoP with a unit that will allow different
ministries and agencies within the government to coordinate development efforts for the indigenous peoples
of Peru. This will help avoid repeating past experiences in which development efforts were duplicated or
contradicted by different government bodies. The commission's purpose is also to increase indigenous
peoples participation in project design and implementation.
The Technical Secretariat for Indigenous Affairs (SETAI) is a permanent part of the new organizational
structure of PROMUDEH. One of the Bank's conditions for lending for an indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples project was to have the GoP provide a position of greater stature to this division dealing with
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian affairs. SETAI was allotted powers that provide it with the capacity to
orient, coordinate and articulate policies and multisectoral actions for the human development of indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian populations. In addition, SETAI has proved to be an innovative technical secretariat
charged with promoting participatory development. Rather than initially providing indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian peoples with direct financing for sub-projects, SETAI will facilitate the process of meeting
the demands and requests of their communities and organizations. The goal is for indigenous and
- 3 -



Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations to have the capacity to design, develop, and manage their
own development initiatives and projects, providing these communities with a greater sense of ownership
and empowerment in managing their own development, and helping to reduce the need for direct
interventions by State entities. Financing will be provided by cooperating agencies following the
methodology of this project.
Both CAI and SETAI will help develop and strengthen the organizational capacity of Peru's indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian peoples, thereby enhancing their ability to take development into their own hands, increasing
their self-sufficiency, and improving their ability to achieve sustainable economic growth. This project, as
well as the proposed Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon project, which
will be submitted to the Global Environmental Facility (GEF) for financing, fits within this strategy of
institutional strengthening and capacity-building. By training communities and organizations to efficiently
design and implement projects that respond to the self-defined needs of their communities, the Bank is
supporting an effective system for working with partners at the grassroots level in Peru. Based on this
project's successes, the Bank will be able to help the GoP create a modus operandi for promoting projects
that address the needs articulated by communities and organizations rather than providing top-down
development options based on the perceptions of outsiders. This project will facilitate the implementation of
current and future Bank projects as well as other projects for indigenous peoples by (a) providing
communities and organizations with the capability of presenting proposals and implementing community
development sub-projects, and (b) providing an effective example of grassroots community development
sub-projects that can be replicated by the Bank, the Peruvian government, and other institutions.
The project will also support revision of the existing indigenous legal framework as well as development of
additional legislation for Peru's indigenous peoples. The legislation will be based on standards set forth in
ILO Convention 169 (ratified by Peru), and other international instruments such as the draft United
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the Organization of American States' American
Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and consultations with the indigenous peoples of Peru.
The legislation's main components will focus on (a) self-definition of indigenous peoples of Peru, (b)
collective land tenure rights that are inalienable and imprescriptible, (c) autonomous privileges of
indigenous communities and their role in local political structures, (d) ownership and access to natural and
other resources and intellectual property rights, and (e) cultural patrimony.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project
Rural areas in the Coast, Sierra and Amazon regions have long been considered extremely impoverished,
yet these regions are rich in cultural and natural resources. The extraction of natural resources (minerals,
petroleum, and high-value wood products) and the unplanned occupation of rural areas have caused heavy
environmental degradation, including a serious loss of biodiversity. While the majority of the rural
population did not benefit substantially from the use of their natural resources, they have borne the effects
of the associated environmental impacts. In most cases even the measures to mitigate these impacts, such as
the establishment of protected areas, were taken without consultation and participation from local
communities. This project will test promising methods of building communities' institutional capacity so
that they can participate more effectively in their own development and derive greater benefit from the
sustainable economic use of their resources.
Many past development efforts by the Peruvian government have relied on a top-down approach, thereby
failing to address the self-defined needs of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples. One strategy of this
project is to promote the active participation of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples, making them
- 4 -



designers and implementers of projects with multi-sectoral financing and in coordination with SETAI.
Another strategy is to directly strengthen the organizational structure of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples. Strengthening and empowering indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations to
design, implement, and manage projects is expected to give them a greater sense of ownership in the
development process and reduce the need for direct interventions by State entities.
Historically, women have been underrepresented in formal and informal decision-making processes at
virtually all levels of society and have not participated fully in the development process. Yet women are
usually the primary care providers for children, have significant community-wide responsibilities, and are
often directly involved in productive activities. In the past the Peruvian government's development
programs have not taken into account the gender dimension of poverty. A third strategy of this project will
be to promote greater gender equity across all levels of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian society, as well as
greater sensitivity to gender issues in the development efforts of the Peruvian government.
This project is being prepared in coordination with a proposed GEF grant for Indigenous Management of
Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon. Even though both projects are being prepared as independent
interventions, their objectives are highly complementary. The proposed GEF project would finance (a)
participatory identification and establishment of approximately five new protected areas in the Peruvian
Amazon, (b) development of management plans and committees to allow local indigenous communities to
manage the protected areas, (c) promotion of projects for sustainable use of biodiversity resources, and (d)
monitoring and evaluation (biological and social). Of the five zones of intervention identified by
GEF/INRENA, two coincide with those identified for implementation of this project.
The Peruvian government and the Bank have selected the following strategy for the Indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project: (a) beginning with an investment of US$5 million through a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), build capacity and manage risks (using innovative methods) with the
goal of building organizational, administrative, technical, and entrepreneurial capacity to initiate the more
ambitious phases of the program that will follow; (b) support and advance this indigenous peoples
development initiative and attempt to foster both actions and multisectoral coordination in order to design
the legal framework for indigenous affairs; (c) respond to the proposals of representatives from indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian peoples for capacity building in organizational, technical, administrative and
entrepreneurial skills for community self-development through a process of "learning by doing"; (d)
recognize that the LIL is the first phase of a long-term program, and that if the LIL results are successful, a
second phase may be financed; and e) the LIL would complement the planned GEF operation by
strengthening the organizational capacity of indigenous organizations involved in the management of the
communal reserves to be financed in the Amazon region, in the two coinciding intervention zones (Sira and
Santiago-Comaina).
4. Learning and innovation expectations
I1 Economic    a Technical    1 Social         Z Participation
E Financial    Z Institutional   Z Environmental D Other
- 5 -



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Institutional Strengthening of  Institutional       2.00       29.9      1.00       20.0
SETAI and the Multisectoral        Development
Commission of Indigenous Affairs
(CAI). This component will finance
minor office supplies and equipment,
Technical Group (TG) staff, operating
costs, training, studies, workshops,
Geographic Information System (GIS)
software, and exchanges with other
institutions working on
capacity-building of indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian peoples.
2. Capacity Building of Indigenous and  Multi Sector   2.33       34.8       1.95      39.0
Afro-Peruvian Peoples Communities
and Organizations. This component
will provide training in (a) participatory
planning, preparation, implementation
and maintenance of community
sub-projects, (b) financial management
and administration, (c) management of
entrepreneurial and income-generating
activities, (d) cultural patrimony, and
(e) development of community human
resources, including organizational,
technical, and legal training
reinforcement.
3. Technical Assistance and Legal  Multi Sector        0.41        6.1      0.37        7.4
Reforms. This component will provide
technical assistance to revise the legal
framework regarding indigenous
peoples, and finance consultation
workshops for the development of such
a legal framework (see Annex 14).
-6 -



4. Information and Awareness      Multi Sector         0.29       4.3       0.26       5.2
Campaign. This component will
provide training to State agencies and
civil society representatives regarding
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian culture,
rights, issues and proposals, in addition
to Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) programs, in the
five pilot zones.
5. Community Development          Other Social         1.21       18.1      1.00      20.0
Sub-projects. This component will  Secto.
finance (a) feasibility and
pre-investment studies; (b) preparation
of technical proposals; (c) promotion of
meetings between State agencies, such
as the OPDs in PROMUDEH, to agree
on financial resource allocation; and (d)
identification of innovative community
sub-projects through a participatory
"learning by doing" process in
accordance with the Operational
Manual.
6. Project Management: Monitoring  Multi Sector        0.41       6.1       0.37       7.4
and Evaluation procedures will be used
in accordance with quantitative M&E
Bank procedures for procurement,
disbursement, accounting and finances,
and to monitor the implementation and
impact of the training and community
development sub-projects, analyzed
separately by gender.
Total Project Costs                    6.65       99.3      4.95      99.0
Front-end fee                    0.05        0.7      0.05       1.0
Total Financing Required                    6.70      100.0      5.00      100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Minagement
(a) National Level. CAI and SETAI, which were created by supreme decree in November 1998, are
part of the Ministry of Women and Human Development (PROMUDEH) and will have broad
responsibility for execution. CAI will establish a technical working group (by date of effectiveness)
with representation of indigenous peoples to assist in providing policy guidance for project
implementation. A technical group (TG) operating within SETAI will be financed by the project.
-7 -



The TG will consist of a project coordinator, an administrator and a technical follow-up specialist
at the national level. It will have one zone coordinator in each zone and follow-up specialists in the
two Amazonian and two Andean zones. SETAI/TG will have overall project implementation,
management, coordination, and supervision responsibility. The TG will submit a project
implementation action plan for CAI approval. Local consultants (lawyers, social scientists,
biodiversity specialists, etc.) will also periodically be employed for selected tasks. A project
implementation manual containing details about project implementation procedures and processes
is being developed.
(b) Regional level. The project will be implemented at the pilot level in five key zones, with a zonal
forum (ZF) formed in each zone with the existing organizations in each selected region. The ZFs
will be composed of representatives of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations in accordance
with the project Operations Manual. The ZFs will select the zone coordinators, while the follow-up
specialists will be designated by SETAI (see Annex 12). The zone coordinator will design and
manage proposed activities at the local level, supervising the delivery of goods and services in their
zone. The follow-up specialist will visit communities participating in training activities. The
follow-up specialist will play an integral role in providing an overall perspective of how the
communities are putting into practice what they are learning from specific training courses. In
addition, the follow-up specialist will develop a perspective on the participating communities, their
progress in relation to one another as well as how successes in one community can be transferred to
another. The ZF will be supported by SETAI/TG. The zone coordinator and follow-up specialist
will reside in the project area throughout the project period to work alongside the ZF and
coordinate with SETAI/TG in making investment decisions together with implementation
supervision activities, including training the ZF and the zone coordinator in accounting,
procurement, management, and administrative skills. The ZF will recommend community
development sub-projects for cooperation and financial agreements with state entities (particularly
the OPDs in PROMUDEH). The ZF and SETAI will identify NGOs and other private sector
institutions for training and/or consulting activities.
Implementation ArrangementsThe implementation arrangements include two types of activities
described in the components:
(a) Capacity building of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations. In each zone a
diagnostic will be conducted to assess training needs and determine the organizational capacity of
participating organizations and communities involved in the project. The organizations and
communities will be classified into one of three levels of competency, and those with a higher
capacity will be used to train and assist organizations in their zone that have a lower capacity.
Based on this assessment, NGOs, municipalities, state entities and communities with higher
institutional capacity will be identified to be contracted by SETAI to carry out needed training
activities. All technical activities will be reflected in a zonal implementation action plan to be
submitted to CAI for review and approval. Monitoring and evaluation will be a constant activity
during the training implementation to improve training activities and determine impact. Within each
region and at the national level, the executing agencies (communities, NGOs, municipalities,
OPDs, etc.) and communities involved in providing training will meet at regular intervals to
compare methodologies as well as successful and unsuccessful experiences. This process will
provide an opportunity to combine different success strategies and allow the ZF to adapt and
modify its training strategy based on the evolving "best practices".
(b) Community development sub-projects. Existing community development projects in different
- 8 -



stages of development as well as newly proposed sub-projects focused on the following issues can
be implemented with financing from cooperating agencies: productive projects, ethno- and
eco-tourism, natural resource management, training, microenterprises, etc. After the ZF selects the
sub-projects, a consultant will develop a participatory action plan, as well as pre-investment
studies and technical proposals, and along with SETAI/TG, will seek financial assistance and
approval from State agencies, such as the OPDs in PROMUDEH. SETAI will enter into
agreements with cooperating agencies under the terms and conditions specified in the operational
manual. Communities and organizations that are operating at the highest level of competency will
be able to directly implement sub-projects. However, communities and organizations that have
lower competency ratings will need to work with an approved NGO or with a higher level
community or organization to implement their sub-projects. Following completion of the project, a
report will be submitted to the ZF by the beneficiary community or organization.
Operational Manual The outline of the project operational manual contains detailed implementation
arrangements, and was agreed upon with SETAI and MEF during the appraisal mission. It will include,
inter alia, a description of (a) criteria for selection of beneficiaries, (b) a project financing model, (c)
selection criteria for projects that include goods and services, (d) contractual procedures, including a
detailed description of the division of responsibilities between the ZF and SETAI/TG, (e) standard terms of
reference (TORs) for the team to be hired by SETAI as the technical group for project implementation, (f)
functional procedures, (g) procurement arrangements, including sample letters of invitation, procedures for
evaluation, sample contracts for consulting services, and monitoring and evaluation and reporting
requirements, (h) administrative arrangements, (i) financial management arrangements and resource flows
(including auditing requirements). Separate annexes for each zone will be created for qualitative measures
if necessary. This will allow flexibility in each zone to test different methods for monitoring qualitative
measures. (j) selection criteria for organizations that will develop the training activities in each pilot zone,
(k) definition of the productive and service projects, and 1) composition and selection criteria of ZF
members. Community sub-projects would require (a) specific performance and impact objectives and
indicators, and (b) detailed provisions for the financing and execution arrangements through financial
agreements with cooperating agencies and grant agreements with beneficiaries. A sample Project
Implementation Plan is presented in Annex 11. The SETAI/TG would present biannual draft operating
plans to the Bank for review.
Procurement and DisbursementProcurement arrangements take into account the three-year
implementation period. Both equipment and consulting service contracts are expected to be very small.
Most of the funds are earmarked for consulting and training contracts. However, given the remote
geographic location of most of the communities and their cultural environment, the technical assistance to
be contracted is expected to include only a few commercial consulting firms. The project's strategy is to
form partnerships with qualified local agencies (OPDs in PROMUDEH, NGOs, municipalities, state
agencies) already working in the project areas who are familiar with the respective communities. Detailed
procurement arrangements and disbursement understandings have been agreed with SETAI/TG and will be
reflected in the project Operational Manual. Annex 6 contains a summary of the arrangements covering
goods and technical assistance.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangementsThe financial administration of the project
will be conducted by the General Administration Management of PROMUDEH, which has qualified staff
to record and report both for internal and external purposes. The financial and accounting reports will be
coordinated with SETAI and its technical group. In addition to the Ministry's accounting system, a
project-specific financial management system satisfactory to the Bank will be established prior to
-9-



effectiveness. The project financial management system will be strengthened within 18 months in the
manner detailed in Annex 6. External audits in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank will be conducted annually, and the opinion and related statements will be presented to the Bank
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (details in Annex 6).
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Traditional methods for monitoring and evaluation would be modified for this project. While quantitative
measures would be used to determine compliance with Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement,
and accounting, qualitative measures would be used by the different community sub-project zones to
monitor and evaluate the capacity-building process. Additionally, attention will be given to disaggregate
monitoring and evaluation data by gender, where appropriate' Potentially, each zone could have different
systems to follow up on program implementation and provide inputs for M&E of qualitative measures. At
the same time there would be a constant effort to evaluate the M&E process in a participatory manner with
the beneficiaries, determine which methods function best, and propose modifications. Some of the ideas
proposed for this innovative M&E process include community participatory monitoring and a learning
methodology.
SETAI/TG will be responsible for monitoring progress against specific performance and impact indicators
including the participation of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations. Indicators will
be designed to allow sufficient time for testing, learning, and adjustment. The TG will be in charge of
designing and implementing indicators and the M&E system within the first twelve months of project
implementation. Regular reports will be presented to CAI. The indicators will also include detailed progress
benchmarks that will cover training impacts at the community level, institutional arrangements, community
involvement and participation, and sustainability. The indicators will be disaggregated by gender in cases
where this information would help enhance the performance of the project. The indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian communities participating in the project will provide SETA1/TG with biannual beneficiary
reports summarizing implementation progress and utilization of funds. An independent technic?l audit of
the physical execution of community sub-projects and diagnostic assessments will be conducted after the
first year of activities and in subsequent years.
D: Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
To be determined as part of the end-of-project impact assessment.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
To be determined as part of the end-of-project impact assessment.
- 10 -



3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
A detailed analysis of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities, elaborated by the Technical Secretariat
for Indigenous Affairs, forms the project's beneficiary targeting mechanism. Pilot communities have been
selected to participate based on poverty and density of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
PROMUDEH was created in October 1996 with one of its principle objectives being indigenous peoples
development. Traditionally, indigenous peoples affairs were the responsibility of the Indigenous Institute of
Peru (Instituto Indigenista Peruano). PROMUDEH has demonstrated its commitment to continue working
within a multisectoral perspective with indigenous peoples by creating SETAI through a supreme decree in
November 1998. The LIL will provide a participatory framework for helping SETAI determine an
appropriate strategy for indigenous peoples development. The success of SETAI's strategy for indigenous
peoples development will depend on the organizational capabilities of indigenous organizations and other
sectors involved. It is expected that through this project SETAI will gain a higher profile by proving itself
as an agency capable of meeting the objectives set forth in the LIL and executing innovative strategies that
will promote the conditions and abilities of indigenous peoples toward their own self-defined development.
b. Project management:
SETAI will form a technical group (TG) to implement the project, which includes a project coordinator
(with social and anthropological expertise), administrator, and a zone coordinator and follow-up specialists
in each of the five pilot zones. SETAI/TG will be in charge of day-to-day project operations, including
finances, contracting, procurement, field monitoring, and supervision. The concerns and challenges of the
TG are similar to that of SETAI. As stated above, the success of the project relies on the participation of
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian leaders, communities and organizations. In the context of the LIL, the TG
will need to constantly evaluate its strengths and weaknesses and adjust its operations accordingly.
c. Multisectoral Commission of Indigenous Affairs (CAI): CAI will be responsible for reviewing and
approving the implementation action plan presented by the TG and SETAI. CAI will hold periodic
meetings to review the project's technical, financial and accounting reports, and will act as directive
committee for the project.
d. Indigenous representation: Indigenous peoples will be represented in CAI as indicated in the supreme
decree (November 1998). At this level of participation, the indigenous communities and organizations will
be decision-makers, reviewing and approving the implementation action plans for the project as well as
following-up implementation activities at the community level. As a condition of effectiveness, CAI will
establish a technical working group with indigenous representation.
Indigenous Organizations Various indigenous organizations have been involved in the project design.
The Asociaci6n Interetnica de Desarrollo de la Selva Peruana (AIDESEP) and the Asociacion de
Desarrollo Campesino del Peri (ADECAP) have provided information and recommendations on project
preparation. AIDESEP operates at the national level, working with regional federations and community
organizations in the Peruvian Amazon. ADECAP is a regional organization that works in the departments
of Huancayo and Huancavelica. Both organizations have focused on providing political representation for
their constituents. The strength of AIDESEP is that they have provided access to policy dialogue for
indigenous peoples of the Amazon at the national level. They work with government agencies and
international donors as well as multinational corporations working in the Peruvian Amazon. However, due
- 11 -



to a lack of financial resources they have not been able to maintain a continuous presence in and
communication with the communities with which they work. ADECAP is located in Huancayo and focuses
most of its work in the field, thus avoiding the dilemma of losing a constant presence with the organizations
they represent. In the process they have not focused on community development projects. Francisco Congo
is an NGO that works with Afro-Peruvian communities. Their primary focus has been fighting
discrimination. While they have extensive contact with the Afro-Peruvian communities and their leaders,
they have yet to design a multisectoral approach toward development in Afro-Peruvian communities.
However, local organizations that work with the above organizations have tremendous experience and
capabilities in implementing community-based development projects (health, education, tourism, etc.)
5. Social:
Projects have great potential for success when they are participatory in nature during the entire process,
from the identification and design stage through to execution and ex-post evaluation. For this project,
extensive social assessment and legal analysis from the sector work on indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples of Peru have provided the guidelines and basis for project design (see Annex 13). Three
consultations involving indigenous and Afro-Peruvian leaders were held: one with indigenous peoples of the
Sierra, one with indigenous peoples of the Amazon basin and one with Afro-Peruvians in culturally diverse
communities. As part of the consultation, participants were asked what their present concerns were
regarding indigenous and Afro-Peruvian development as well as their vision of the future for their peoples.
The suggestions from these consultations were used as the basis for designing this project. This
consultation also benefited from the participation of key training institutes and NGOs involved in training
delivery in the past. The recommendations emanating from these discussions are incorporated in the design
of this project (see the August 1999 Peru Indigenous Peoples Green Cover draft report for further
information). Therefore, the proposed project builds on the existing social capital of the indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations, particularly in the five zones selected for the project. The
approach is proposed here because it offers (a) a flexible opportunity to test different approaches to
capacity-building on both the macro and micro level, (b) the opportunity to make changes to Peru's
indigenous legal framework in consultation with indigenous peoples, (c) the opportunity for small-scale
innovation and experimentation on projects that emphasize demand-driven, community-based initiatives,
and (d) the opportunity to adapt relevant State services to indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples needs,
through the awareness-building and training of State and non-State functionaries at the local, regional and
national levels.
Community Development Sub-projects While development projects provide aid to communities and
organizations for their improvement, they often impose the framework and activities that the project will
fund. In this project's case, the communities and organizations involved will have the opportunity to
prioritize and implement sub-projects that respond to their own self-defined needs as well as function within
the community's structure. In addition, these sub-projects will serve as replicable pilots for application in
areas with similar conditions. In doing so, the productive and service sub-projects, designed by the LIL and
financed by State and cooperating entities, will have a greater impact in the design and implementation of
future projects for the Bank, GoP, and other institutions involved in development.
Gender. To promote development in general, it is essential to take into consideration the gender dimension
of poverty and the different roles and responsibilities of men and women. The increased participation of
women in decision-making processes at the personal, household, and community levels contributes to a
greater degree of equity in development as well as a higher chance for success in development projects.
Such attention to the gender dimension of poverty, while undertaken within the context of each individual
- 12 -



culture's norms, maximizes the value of social capital. This project will seek to address the issues of gender
and take into consideration the role of women within each community, thus aiming for greater inclusion and
enhancing the chances for success as well as helping the Government of Peru to increasingly incorporate
gender awareness into its future development programs. Women have been included in the various
consultations and their comments and perspectives have helped to form the concepts and components for
the LIL. A separate consultation was held with indigenous women representatives of the Sierra and
Amazon at which gender-specific issues were raised and specific recommendations were made. Gender
considerations should be included in community development sub-projects as a condition for approval by
the ZF and channeling by SETAI to financial executing agencies. PROMUDEH, as the state agency
charged with promoting the rights and inclusion of women, is fully supportive of the gender-conscious
approach to development that is proposed as a strategy of this project.
6. Environmental assessment              Environment Category: B
This project has been assigned to category B by the environment specialists in the Environmentally and
Socially Sustainable Development SMU for the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The major focus of
this project will be on capacity building, with a lesser focus on the design and mainstreaming of community
development sub-projects. This latter component will promote various activities, including sustainable land
use practices. The project would not fund community sub-projects that could be considered
environmentally sensitive based on project eligibility criteria to be indicated in the Project Operational
Manual.
7. Participatory Approach(key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries will be indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples from the Sierra, the Amazon and
the coast. The project will strengthen the institutional, organizational, and technical capacities of SETAI
and CAI, as well as the capacity of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations to
develop and implement sub-projects. There will be technical and educational training to advance the
institutional capacity of the communities, while at the same time, the very process of "learning by doing"
will contribute to a sense of self-confidence and security amongst the beneficiaries, which will increase
their ability to develop new and innovative proposals for social and economic development. The examples
set by these communities are expected to provide replicable models for the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
population as a whole. The legal reform and technical assistance component will benefit the indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian populations of Peru as a whole by devising a strengthened legal framework regarding
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples rights and enabling their participation in its development.
- 13 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
The Government of Peru is a stakeholder in the project in the sense that the project will strengthen the
institutional capacity of SETAI and thereby its parent ministry PROMUDEH. In addition, nationally and
regionally based indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations are stakeholders in the project process.
Organizations such as AIDESEP, CONAP, ADECAP, Francisco Congo and AEDENADH have been
consulted during the project development phase. The project will also work closely with local actors
(NGOs, municipalities, state entities) to offer training programs to communities and in some cases to assist
communities in implementing sub-projects. In the case of public entities, institutional strengthening will be
obtained through technical assistance and training. Nevertheless, through their direct participation in the
field, and sharing with the beneficiaries the project's successes and failures, the public entities will also be
able to advance their understanding of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian realities and the opportunities this
offers for State support.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability.
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Ratibg     Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Institutional capacity in participating   M         Strengthen institutions, communities
public-sector agencies, communities,                and organizations through capacity
and organizations to ensure effective               building programs.
project implementation and
management.
Political willingness to pursue revisions  S        Dated covenant for the submission of
of indigenous legal framework.                      the draft law to Congress by July 2002,
and interim monitoring indicators for
the preparation of the satisfactory draft
and two major consultations.
Political will to maintain institutional  H         Approval of by-laws for the
arrangements for project                            Multisectoral Indigenous Affairs
implementation following next national              Commission by ministerial decree to be
elections.                                          monitored.
Government programs will be               M         Programs will be based on consultations
"top-down" and paternalistic.                       with indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
population and will respond to
self-defined needs.
Community sub-projects will be            M         Selection process subject to review of
innovative and replicable.                          TG/SETAI based on established
selection criteria.
From Components to Outputs
Respect of Peruvian government for the    M         Information of project proposals will be
development aspirations of indigenous               communicated to government.
and Afro-Peruvian communities.
- 14 -



Institutional continuity of SETAI.        S        Project will provide testing ground for
SETAI to prove its worth and agility in
promoting indigenous and
v                                                Afro-Peruvian peoples development.
Training meets the needs of indigenous   M         Use of diagnostic studying the needs
and Afro-Peruvian communities and                  and desires of indigenous and
organizations.                                     Afro-Peruvian peoples for development
and capacity building to guide project
activities.
Community sub-projects will be           M         Rigorous preparation and review
financially and socially viable.                   process that will assess financial and
social viability, in which the executing
agency and external financial agency
will participate.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditiom
(a) The Operational Manual will have been adopted;
(b) a financial management system acceptable to IBRD will have been established in PROMUDEH;
(c) a General Coordinator for the Technical Group with substantial social and anthropological training and
acceptable to IBRD will have been selected; and
(d) CAI will have established a technical working group with indigenous representation to provide overall
policy guidance for project implementation.
2. Other [classify according to covenanit types used in the Legal Agreements.]
l.Disbursement Condition
For the financing of preparation studies for community development sub-projects, enter into at least 3
agreements with financing agencies.
2. Covenants
Submission of draft legal framework to Peruvian Congress by July 2002.
- 15 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
O l. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
Z 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
IZ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
7Jua Martinez                      Shelton Davis                      sto  May
Tearn Leader                      Acting Sector Director             Acting Country Director
- 16 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Iy P-rforance
Jetry of Oea ivesv : ndicators                       NlonitOitng & Eyfation - Cnticq* Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support the sustained,     Reduction of the poverty index Poverty map.            Stable government policies in
continuous reduction of    in indigenous communities                              favor of indigenous peoples.
poverty by maintaining     and amongst women.         Evaluation reports.
economic stability and
improving access to basic  Number of communities
services.                  promoted from lower to higher
level of institutional capacity.
Follow-on Development
Objective
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To strengthen indigenous and 100 organizations        Annual project reports.     Socio-economic recuperation
Afro-Peruvian communities   strengthened during project                           of the country.
and organizations so that they execution in the five pilot  Participatory impact
can design and implement    zones.                    evaluations.
community development
sub-projects, better articulate  5 innovative methods tested
their proposals, and effectively and indigenous development
utilize services offered by the  strategic plans established in
State and other sectors within the five pilot zones.
civil society by promoting
innovative methods through a
"learning by doing" process.
-17 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports.            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Institutional Strengthening  50 agreements reached  Diagnostics and development Sufficient institutional
of SETAI and the           between SETAI and          plan produced.              capacity in participating
Multisectoral Commission of  indigenous and Afro-Peruvian                         public sector agencies to
Indigenous Affairs (CAI): i   organizations.          Annual project reports.     ensure effective project
ncreased institutional capacity                                                  implementation.
in the GoP to formulate and   15 agreements reached   Participatory evaluations and
execute policies and programs between SETAI and other    technical reports.       Willingness of State
directed at the indigenous and state institutions.                                representatives to work with
Afro-Peruvian population.                                                         indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
Project technical group (TG)                          communities.
established, made up of one
coordinator, one administrator                        Political will to maintain
and one legal and technical                           institutional arrangements for
follow-up specialist at the                           project implementation
national level, one zone                              following next national
coordinator in each of the 5                          elections.
pilot zones, and one follow-up
specialist in each of the
Amazonian and Andean
zones.
Implementation of an
administrative and accounting
control system in SETAI
during the first year of the
project.
25 training events, including
workshops, meetings,
interchanges with other
countries, and international
forums.
CAI established by March
2000 and with operational
work program and by-laws
approved by December 2000.
- 18 -



2. Increased capacity of   5 diagnostics and development Diagnostic documents and    Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian plans agreed upon in the 5    development plans.    organizations participate in
organizations to articulate    pilot zones.                                      project activities.
their demands for State                               Constitutional agreements of
services.                  5 zonal forums created.    zonal forums.
5 zonal training diagnostics   Training workshop
completed and implemented.  evaluations.
140 training workshops
implemented with 1,000
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
male and female community
leaders trained in
organizational, technical and
business strengthening.
3. Legal framework for     Legal standards proposals    Legal Standards negotiations  Political consensus on the
indigenous peoples.        created in consultation with  in the Peruvian Congress,    importance and necessity of
indigenous peoples.        central government or local   policies and programs targeted
government.               towards indigenous peoples.
20 consultation workshops
held with communities      Participatory consultations
regarding legal aspects.   and technical reports.
Draft legal framework      Approved legal standards.
presented to the Bank by
December 2001.             Reports on revision standards
for administrative procedures
Revised legal framework    implemented.
submitted to Congress by July
2002.                      Workshop evaluations and
technical reports.
Administrative procedures and
technical standards adapted to
the demands of indigenous
peoples.
Inter-institutional zonal
technical committees formed
for revision of the legal
framework.
Consulting and technical
assistance services provided
for revision of legal reforms.
- 19 -



4. Greater awareness of the   20 participatory workshops   Workshop evaluations.  State representatives
needs of the indigenous and   held for awareness and                             interested in revising State
Afro-Peruvian population.    training of 250 state   Publication and dissemination services based on demands of
representatives from different notes.                 indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
sectors.                                              peoples.
15 workshops held to support
zonal technical committees.
26 Information, Education and
Communication (IEC)
workshops held covering
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples culture, rights,
problem and proposals.
5. Creation of community   10 workshops held and 120   Participatory evaluations and  Sub-projects will be
development sub-projects.    community sub-project   technical reports.         innovative and replicable.
pre-investment studies
completed.                 Project monitoring reports.
Six workshops and
multisectoral agreement
meetings held regarding
financing of community
sub-projects.
Six workshops and agreement
meetings held with
cooperating international
agencies regarding financing
of community sub-projects.
100 of the 120 pre-investment
studies implemented as
community sub-projects
through a "learning-by-doing"
methodology.
6. Project management,    Participatory monitoring and  Operational Plan document.
monitoring and evaluation.   evaluation system established.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Plan document.
Trimestral progress reports.
Annual evaluation reports.
- 20 -



K.ey pertmiance
t!evAMkiy of 0jecIlves          I'ntd Ictors        MoiAtoring 4 Evaluation    Critcal Asumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Institutional Strengthening  $2.00 million        Progress reports by executing  Willingness of institutions to
of SETAI and the                                     agencies.                 formulate and execute policies
Multisectoral Commission of                                                     and programs directed at the
Indigenous Affairs (CAI).                            Consultation workshops.    indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
population.
Monitoring reports.
Institutional continuity of
Annual technical and      SETAI and CAI.
financial audits.
2. Capacity Building of   $2.33 million              Diagnostic reports.        Training meets the needs of
Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian                                                    indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
Communities and                                      Workshop reports.          communities and
Organizations.                                                                  organizations.
3. Technical Assistance and   $0.41 million          Draft legal framework.     Willingness of trained State
Legal Reforms.                                                                  and civil society
Workshop reports.         representatives to work for
indigenous rights.
4. Information and Awareness $0.29 million           Progress reports.          Respect of Peruvian
Campaign.                                                                       government for the
Workshop reports.         development aspirations of
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
Informative publicity     communities.
materials.
5. Community Development  $1.21 million              Project evaluation reports.    Financial and social viability
Sub-projects.                                                                   of community sub-projects.
Participatory evaluation.
6. Project Management:    $0.41 million              Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation,                           reports.
- 21 -



Annex 2: Project Description
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$2.00 million
Institutional Strengthening of SETAI and the Multisectoral Commission on Indigenous Affairs (CAJ)
This component will strengthen the Secretariat's institutional capacity to operate on a normative and
operational level through training in project and financial management as well as in procurement and
disbursement. Specialized training courses, studies, workshops and exchange of experiences with similar
institutions in other countries will augment SETAI technical knowledge. In addition, an administration
control and accounting system will be put into place. Technical meetings and workshops on indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian peoples issues will help guide the work of CAI in unifying and coordinating between
different governmental sectors with indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities of the Coast, Sierra and
Amazon. This component will finance consultant services. This component will also fund the Technical
Group (TG) responsible for project implementation, as well as minor office equipment and operating costs.
Project Component 2 - US$2.33 million
Capacity Building! of Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Or2anizationsThis component will finance
training activities for indigenous and Afro-Peruvian community and organization representatives that will
focus on the following: (i) participatory planning, preparation, implementation and maintenance of
community sub-projects; (ii) financial management and administration; (iii) cultural patrimony, and; (iv)
development of community human resources, that include organizational, technical and legal training
reinforcement. In each zone, a training diagnostic will be conducted by the Zonal Forums (ZF) to assess
training needs as well as to determine the organizational capacity of participating organizations and
communities involved in the project, by dividing them into three levels of competency. Using this grading
system, communities and organizations with a higher level of competency will then be used to train and
assist in community sub-project implementation with other organizations in the same zone operating at a
lower level of competency. Based on this assessment, the ZF will identify NGOs and communities with
higher capacity levels to be contracted by SETAI to carry out needed training activities: Monitoring and
Evaluation will be a constant activity during the training implementation to improve training activities and
determine impact. At regular intervals, all NGOs involved in providing training will meet to compare
methodologies as well as successful and unsuccessful experiences. This process will provide an
opportunity to combine different successful strategies and for the ZFs to adopt and modify the training
strategy utilizing these "best practices". The follow-up specialist in each zone will visit communities
participating in the capacity building process and evaluate their implementation of the material learned
from the capacity building program. In addition, the visits to the different communities will help develop a
perspective on the progress of the different communities in comparison to one another as well as to develop
a better understanding of how successes from communities can be shared and replicated in others.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.41 million
Technical Assistance and LeLal Reforms This project component will support with technical assistance
the revision of Peru's existing legislation regarding indigenous peoples and prepare a draft of indigenous
peoples law. The foundation for any strategy dealing with Peru's indigenous population must begin by
setting forth their legal and constitutional status in a concise and clear manner. Revision of existing
legislation will be based upon standards mandated by the International Labor Organization Convention
169, which was ratified by Peru and on the recommendations from consultations held with Peru's
indigenous people. One of the greatest problems in reaching development goals is that under the present
constitution, properties belonging to indigenous communities do not have the protections previously
-22 -



assigned which gave inalienable ownership to the comnmunity. The permanency of ownership is ambiguous
leading to a conflict between communal and private use of land. Another issue is the question of
indigenous autonomy and active participation in their own governance at municipal and other levels of state
operations. The legal definition of indigenous peoples is also vague and at times misleading. The current
legal definition for indigenous communities in the Sierra highlands is Comunidad Campesina. A more
accurate definition related to socio-cultural practices as well as that fits in with terminology and concepts
chosen by indigenous people will be used. Doing so will assist in accurately defining who is indigenous
and facilitate accurate targeting of these communities for inclusion in the indigenous development effort.
The component will finance technical assistance and workshops to prepare the draft on indigenous peoples
law for submission to Congress by July 2002.
Project Component 4 - US$0.29 million
Information and Awareness CampaignThis component will provide training to State and civil society
functionaries in the five pilot zones regarding indigenous and Afro-Peruvian culture, rights, issues and
proposals, in addition to information, education and communication programs, with the purpose of
increasing awareness of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian issues in each region. One of the activities of this
component will finance the exchanging of experiences between governments, communities and sectors
within Peru and with other countries.
Project Component 5 - US$1.21 million
Community Development Sub-proiects The objective of this component is to identify innovative
community sub-projects through a "learning by doing" approach, which entails a dynamic process of
evaluation and adjustments to the sub-projects. Using this practical technique will help to determine which
sub-projects and concepts function well and are replicable. Specific preparation of sub-projects would be
cofinanced by the beneficiaries, in kind, at an average of 25% of the cost of such services. An additional
purpose of this component is to strengthen the technical capacity of the implementing community and
organization to carry out sub-projects. Implementation of community development sub-projects would be
financed by cooperating agencies in Peru following the requirements detailed in the Operational Manual.
Project Component 6 - US$0.41 million
Project Management:Monitoring and Evaluation Traditional methods for Monitoring and Evaluation
will be utilized. While quantitative measures would be used to determine compliance with Bank
procedures for procurement, disbursement and accounting, qualitative measures would be used by the
different community sub-project zones to monitor and evaluate the capacity building process. Potentially,
each zone could have a different systems to conduct M&E. At the same time there would be a constant
effort to evaluate the M&E process in a participatory manner and determine which methods functioned
best. Some of the ideas proposed for this innovative M&E process include community participatory
monitoring and learning methodology. SETAI/TG would be responsible for monitoring progress against
specific performance and impact indicators including the participation of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
communities and organizations. Indicators will be designed to allow sufficient time for testing, learning
and adjustment. The indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities participating in the project will provide
the SETAI/TG with bi-annual beneficiary reports for review, summarizing implementation progress and
utilization of project funds. An independent technical audit of works, a financial audit, and beneficiary
assessments will be conducted after the first year of activities and in subsequent years.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
: p
. Institutional Strengthening of SETAI and the Multisectoral  1.80     0.10          1.90
Commnission of Indigenous Affairs (CAI)
2. Capacity Building of Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian       2.01         0.22          2.23
Communities and Organizations
3. Technical Assistance and Legal Reforms                  0.40         0.00          0.40
4. Information and Awareness Campaign                      0.28         0.00          0.28
5. Community Development Sub-projects                      1.04         0.11          1.15
6. Project Management: Monitoring and Evaluation           0.40         0.00          0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                        5.93         0.43          6.36
Physical Contingencies                                    0.25         0.03          0.28
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.01          0.01
Total Project Costs               6.18         0.47          6.65
Front-end fee                    0.05          0.05
Total Financing Required               6.18          0.52         6.70
- 24 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Summary of benefits and costs:
Under the Community Development Sub-project component, the project will finance the
preparation of a range of demand-driven sub-projects which are expected to generate benefits for
participating communities. However, their primary purpose is to allow Indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian organizations to build institutional capacity for sub-project identification,
preparation and implementation under the principle of "learning-by-doing". As it is expected that
many sub-projects will be similar to the ones financed under the Sierra-Natural Resources
Management and Poverty Alleviation Project as well as the FONCODES project, no separate
financial and economic analysis has been carried out. Instead, the results of the financial and
economic analysis carried out under the Sierra- Natural Resources Management and Poverty
Alleviation Project are expected to give a ballpark figure of the expected economic and financial
returns of the sub-projects financed under the project. However, revisions will take place during
implementation in order to revise and customize the economic and financial returns based upon the
needs and conditions of the areas and sub-projects financed by the LIL. This will be detailed in the
Operational Manual and required from the State and cooperating agencies. The monitoring and
evaluation will include the evaluation for costs and benefits.
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Implement tion Period
e       B    ~ ~~ Fiscal Year 1      Fiscal Year 2      Fiscal Year 3      Fiscal Year 4
Investrnent                     126.0            2,293.9            2,200.2            1,332.0
Recurrent                         4.7              237.0              237.2              219.0
TOTAL                           130.7            2,530.9            2,437.4            1,551.0
IBRD                             75.0            2,000.0            2,000.0              925.0
Government                      100.0              550.0              550.0              300.0
Beneficiaries                                       70.0               80.0               50.0
TOTAL                           175.0            2,620.0            2,630.0            1,275.0
- 26 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods, works and services would be carried out in accordance with, respectively, the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995
and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and the Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published January 1997 and revised
in September 1997 and January 1999. Procurement arrangements for the project components are described
below and summarized in Table A.
SETAI/TG, will have the overall responsibility for procurement activities. Acquisitions and consultant
contracts will be processed through the respective administrative Units of PROMUDEH to utilize more
fully the existing capacity of the Ministry and to avoid unnecessarily expanding the SETAI/TG. However,
this being the first Bank financed project implemented by SETAI, a qualified Procurement/Administrator
Consultant will be contracted to assist the SETAI/TG in quality control function and compliance with Bank
procedures. An agency capacity assessment has been conducted during appraisal, which shows an
acceptable level of organization and staffing of PROMUDEH's administrative area; its results and
recommendations are reflected in the proposed arrangements.
Goods. Contracts for goods are expected to be very small (I vehicle, 1 launch boat, and 3 computers).
Contracts for goods all estimated at less than $50,000 would be awarded through national shopping
procedures.
Consultants' Services and Training The project would finance technical assistance and consulting
services to promote community participation, related training, and design and preparation of sub-projects.
It would also finance contracts for core staff in the SETAI/TG, technical specialists, and their participation
to national/international seminars. In addition, the project would include training of other Government
officials to sensitize them in indigenous and Afro-Peruvian issues. Given the community orientation of the
services being financed, it is expected that a major part of the training and technical assistance would be
contracted to local or regional NGOs. SETAI/TG has put together a register of qualified NGOs active in
the project areas who are reputable, familiar with local conditions and have a presence in the communities.
Some of this assistance would be Sole Sourced and other would fall under the Selection Based on
Consultant Qualifications method, depending on the resources available in the region and needs of the
individual communities. Contracts would be based on standard forms of contract issued by the Bank or, as
appropriate, on other standard forms acceptable to the Bank. Procedures and standards for contracting
consultants and training services would be outlined in the Operational Manual. Training contracts would
include financing of all related training materials, rents, transportation for trainees per diems and other
expenses related to carrying out these services.
Operating Costs. Operating expenditures would include office supplies, utilities, operation and
maintenance of office equipment and vehicles, communication services, transportation and travel expenses
for SETAI/TG, and other incremental costs related to the administration of the project in respect to
SETAI/TG.
Prior Review. Table B summarizes the prior Bank review which represents about 20% of the Loan
amount. Although the results of the evaluation capacity of PROMUDEH are acceptable, the standard prior
- 27 -



review thresholds for consultants are recommended considering that this is PROMUDEH's first Bank
experience and its short time of existence (two years). During supervision the Bank will conduct
post-review of procurement documentation and will follow-up on the action plan proposed as a result of the
capacity assessment.
Procurement methods (Table A)
See below.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                                                                        0.00
()             0)            ()             ()           (0.00)
2. Goods                                                          0.04           0.06           0.10
o ()           ()           (0.04)         (0.00)         (0.04)
3. Services                                                       4.57            1.29          5.86
()             ()          (4.57)          (0.00)         (4.57)
4. Miscellaneous                                                  0.34            0.35          0.69
o)             ()          (0.34)          (0.00)         (0.34)
5. Front-end fee                                                  0.05           0.00           0.05
o)   _         ()          (0.05)          (0.00)         (0.05)
Total                            0.00           0.00           5.00            1.70          6.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)         (0.00)         (5.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
" Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to managing the project.
- 28 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
See below.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
.Threshold             ProremEntd             Prior Review
1. Works
2. Goods                         <50               National Shopping              None
3. Services                  Firms >100                 QCBS                 Not expected
Firms <100        Consultant Qualification       US$0.1
Firms <100             Single Source              US$0.6
Individual Consultants    According to Section V of    US$0.3
>50             Consultants Guidelines
Individual Consultants    According to Section V of    None
<50             Consultants Guidelines
4. Miscellaneous           Operating Costs         National Shopping             None
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$1.0
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 29 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
See below.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
_In                         ¢pen4XC*ego   Anomntin4a$u flot n  Fnancir==P~er~~nTag
1. Goods                                    0.04                          80%
2. Consulting Services (excluding           3.50                          90%
consulting for preparation of
sub-projects) & Training
3. Consulting Services for Preparation      0.85                         100%
of Sub-projects
4. Operating Costs                          0.32                          90%
5. Unallocated                              0.24
Total Project Costs                         4.95
Front-end fee         0.05
Total                                       5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
A three-year period for loan disbursement is estimated with effectiveness expected in March 2090 and a
loan Closing Date of December 31, 2002. An amount of US$50,000 of eligible expenditures made after
April 30, 1999, may be financed retroactively from the loan account.
Semi-annual plans will be the mechanism for making disbursement estimates and measuring disbursement
performance. The allocation of loan proceeds is indicated in Table C of this annex. The Bank loan would
finance 90 percent of all eligible project expenditures with the exception of Category I Goods.
A Special Account in US Dollars will be established in a commercial Bank, acceptable to the Bank, with an
authorized allocation of US$500,000. Most loan funds are expected to be disbursed through SOEs. For all
other expenditures, e.g., consultant services over $50,000 with individuals and $100,000 with firms, full
supporting documentation will be required. The Special Accounts should be maintained by the depositary
bank in a way that satisfies the requirements listed in Annex A of OP 12.2. Bank statements will show all
transactions in and out of the account, including amounts advanced and reimbursed by the World Bank,
and balance at the end of each month. Under PMR-based disbursement, the maximum amount in the
Special Account shall not exceed US$1.0 million.
Initially SETAI will follow the traditional disbursement system and intends to move onto LACI as it gains
familiarity with this first Bank operation but within 18 months from effectiveness. An action plan has been
agreed upon with SETAI to this end.
- 30 -



Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangementsSETAI/TG will utilize the Administration
Department of PROMUDEH, where a financial department headed by a qualified financial officer and
sufficiently staffed by an accountant to keep adequate records specific to the project and prepare the
financial statements, and auxiliary staff to execute financial operations and provide control over project
assets. This system will have a double entry automated accounting system comprising a general ledger and
supporting subsidiary records (check register, journal ledger). The account structure used to record
expenditures will comprise 3 classifications: the government budget classifications, the component and
sub-component of the project document, and cost categories. The automated accounting system will be
Y2K compliant and contain the required security features.
SETAI/TG through the Administration Department of PROMUDEH will develop and document the detail
procedures of all financial operations of the project: cash receipts, disbursements, control over advances,
replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and controls, and reporting requirements and include
these in the Operations Manual..
For the purposes of carrying out the project, deposits into the Special Account and their replenishments
will be made on the basis of cash withdrawals statements based initially on Statements of Expenditure and
later with the conversion to LACI they will be based on cash forecasts contained in quarterly Project
Management Reports. Each of these reports would show: (i) actual sources and applications of funds for
the project, both cumulatively and for the period, and projected sources and applications of funds for the
project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately expenditures financed out of the credit during the
period covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be financed during the following six-month
period; (iii) describe physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered, and explain variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (iv)
set forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed from the
credit, for the period covered.
In order to begin disbursements, SETAI/TG will have in place by effectiveness both the staff and financial
management systems satisfactory to the Bank, which will have undergone an assessment by a Bank
Financial Management Specialist and will have either the capacity to produce the quarterly PMR, as
required under LACI, or have presented to the Bank a satisfactory action plan to develop this capacity
within 18 months.
External audits in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank will be engaged annually
and the opinion with the related statements presented to the Bank within four months of the fiscal year end.
In addition to the financial year end audit, four quarterly concurrent audits will be conducted yearly to
ensure acceptability of project financial management. All supporting records will be maintained at the
project site for at least one year after the completion of the project.
- 31 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
_jectScbe t                                     P1anned7777c7ual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                             6
First Bank mission (identification)              11/23/98                      11/23/98
Appraisal mission departure                      04/19/99                      04/19/99
Negotiations                                     05/05/99                      11/01/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/31/99                      03/01/2000
Prepared by:
PROMUDEH/SETAI
Preparation assistance:
SETAI staff: Jorge Vega, Director; Elena Conterno, Juan Reategui, Gladis Villa, David Roldan L6pez,
Aristides Melendez Llanos, Oscar Rodriguez Brignardello, Nilda Milagritos Chia Lopez, Fernando
Alvarado Velarde, Dorothy Hurtado Carranza.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Juan Martinez                     Task Team Leader
Carmen Palaco Nielson             Procurement Specialist
Martien Van Nieuwkoop             Natural Resources Economist
Livio Pino                        Financial Specialist
Paul Sisk                          Financial Specialist
Marta Molares-Halberg             Country Lawyer and Indigenous Legal Specialist
Shelton Davis                      Sector Manager, LCSES
Jerri Dell                        Gender Specialist
Evan Meyer                        Consultant
Karen Berelowitz                   Consultant
Christine Kimes                   Regional GEF Coordinator
Pierre Werbrouck                  Peru Resident Representative
Robert Crown                      Projects Advisor
Carlos Monge                       Social and Rural Development Specialist
Issam Abousleiman                 Disbursement Officer
Augusta Molnar                    Peer Reviewer (LCSES)
Stefano Varese                    Peer Reviewer (UC Davis Department of Anthropology)
- 32 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Social Assessment
C. Other
Economic Sector Work Analysis
Amazonian Indigenous Profile
Andean Indigenous Profile
Indigenous Consultation Reports for the Andean, Amazon and Afro-Peruvian Regions
Legal Analysis of the Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples, Civil Society and Non-Governmental Organizations
Indigenous Peoples of the Frontiers and Ethno-Development
Chronology of Peruvian Indigenous-State Relations & Policy
*Including electronic files
- 33 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Difference between expect
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Re\
Number of Closed Projects: 71
PE-PE-39086    1999 GOP                         URBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                  38.00        D.00       0.00       35.03     9.16      0.0c
PE-PE-65596    1999 MiNISTRY OF FINANCE         FIN SECTR.ADJ.LN II                  300.00        0.00        0.00     122.00   -178.00     0.0c
PE-PE-54667    1998 GOVERNMENTOF PERU           ELNINOEMERGENCYLN                    150.00        0.00       0.00      118.23    58623      2.OC
PE-PE-40125    1997 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          FONCODES II                          150.00        0.00        0.00      65.80    60.80      0 0c
PE-PE-42442    1997 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          SIERRA NATURAL RES.                   51.00        0.00       0.00       27.62     -1.36     0.0c
PE-PE-8037     1997 GOVERNMENT OF PERU          IRRIG. REHAB                          85.00        0.00        0.00      62.67     24.48    -2.82
PE-PE-37047    1996 REPUBLIC OF PERU            RURAL RDS. REHAB & M                  90.00        0.00        0.00      17.62     1552      0.0c
PE-PE-8051     1995 SEDAPAL                     LIMAWAT.PRIVZN                       150.00        0.00        0.00      64.21     55.61     0.0C
PE-PE-8OSS     1995 GOVERNMENT                  PRIM.EDUC                            14640         0.00        0.00      76 869   76.9       -2.2E
PE-PE-8045     1994 GOVERNMENT                  TRANSP.RHB                           150.00        0.00        0.00      13.75     12 72     o oc
Total:   1,310.40       0.00       0.00      603.82    13405     -30E
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       730.11        2,975.35       3,705.46
of wh[ch has been repaid:        0.00       1,240.64        1,240.64
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    1,344.40         1,734.70       3,079.10
Amount sold:         0.00           18.31          18.31
of which repaid:        0.00          18.31          18.31
Total Undisbursed:       603.82           0.00         603.82
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 34 -



PERU
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1979/83/90/93     Buenaventura                    0,00    0.00    1.69    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.69    0.00
1982/92/95        Wiese Leasing                   7.27    0.00    1.43    5.71    7.27    0.00      1.43    5.71
1984              Minera Regina                   1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/94           Yanacocha                       2.40    0.00    0.33    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.33    0.00
1993/96           Quellaveco                      0.00   11.52    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.30    0.00    0.00
1994              Banco Credito                   3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994              Peru Prvtzn Fund                0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    13.89    0.00
1994              PPF Cayman                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994196           AFP Horizonte                   0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.23    0.00
1997              Interbank-Peru                 20.00    0.00    0.00   100.00   20.00    0.00     0.00   97.98
1998              agroguayabito                   7.00    0.00     1.00    0.00    5.50    0.00     1.00    0.00
1998              Latino Leasing                 10.00    0.00    2.50    0.00   10.00    0.00      2.50    0.00
1998              Paramonga                      22.00    0.00    0.00   23.00   14.18    0.00      0.00   14.82
Total Portfolio:        74.02   11.52   27.18   128.71   64.70   10.30   21.07  118.51
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 35 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PERU: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Latin    Lower-                                           918199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                America    middle.                    -
Peru   & Carib.   income         Development diamond'
1998
Poutlation mid-vear (millions)                             24.8       502        908                    Life expectancy
GNP ner crDnita (Atlas method USSI                       2 460       3 940      1 710
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                           61.1      1 978      1 557
Averacte annual arowth. 1992-98
Poculation (%)                                              1 7        1.6        1.1
Labor force f%l                                             2.7        2.3        1.5      GNP                                 Gross
Most recent estimate ilatest vear available. 1992-98)                                      per                              primary
capita                          erlmn
Povertv (% of Dooulation below national Dovertv line)       49
Urban Dooulalion (% of total DODulation)                    72          75         53
I ife eynectannv at birth fvears)                           69          7n         6fi
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                    40          32         38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51                    8          8                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of DoDulation)                      66          75         75 
Illiteracv (%of oooulation ace 15+)                         11          13         14
Gross orimarv enrollment (f% ofschool-aae Dooulation)      123         113        103               Peru
Male                                                     125                   105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   171                   11n
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987        1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                               14.2      23.9       63.8       62.9
Gross doMestic investment/GDP                    19.2     21 5        24.6       24.6                       Trade
Oxsorts of ooodn and services/GDP                15.9      11 0       12 8       12,0
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                       12.4      19.7       20 8       19 8
Gross national savinos/GDP                          ..       ..       19 4       18 6
Current account balance/GDP                      -6.5      -8 3       -5 3       -6.0      Doe
Interest oavments]GDP                             2.9       0                     1        Domestic                        nvestment
Total debt/GDP                                   64.4      73 1       47.8       51 5      Savings                         nvme
Total debt service/exoorts                       53 0      13 3       31.1       27 3
Prasent vanioe of dPbtlGOP                                            436 f
Present value of detttlexnorts                                .      294.9
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-9S      1997        1998   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
GOP:                                    17        3 9       77         07         57             -Peru
GNP net canita                         -0.8       2.6       5.4       -3.0        3.7                Lower-middle-income group
Fxoorts of ooods and services           0.5       7 0      13.0        2.4        7 9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987        1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
40
Anriculiture                                     15 7      11n3        f 19       7 1
Industrv                                         34.6      33.4       36.4       36.7      30
Manufacturina                                  20.8      23.4       22.9       22.0      20
Services                                         49.7      56.3       56.7       56.3 o
Private consumrtion                              73.5      70.3       67.5       68.1     .10      13   94   95   96   97   98
General oovernment consumotion                   14.1      10.0       11.7       12.1                       GDI        1  GDP
Imoorts of coods and services                    22.7      12.7       16.6       167
1977-87  1988-98        1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averaoe annual orowtbi
Aoriculture                                       1.9       3.5        3.7        3.6      30
Industrv                                          1 9       4 4        91 n       I f      20
Manufacturino                                   1.2       3.1        6.0       -3.0
Services                                          1.4       3.5        6.6       -0.9      10 _       _         _         _
Private ronsiumntion                              1 7       2 6        4 1       -n 7 o
General oovernment consumotion                    1.6       2.6        4.6        2.4             93   94    95   96    97   s8
Gross domestic investment                         0.8       8.3       12.7       -0.1     10
ImDorts of ooods and services                    -0.7      10.0       11.3       -0.1                 -Exports    '*Imports
Gross national oroduct                            1.6       4.4        7.3       -1.2
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-arouo averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
he in.nomniete
- 36 -



Peru
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997       1998        Inflation t%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                Bo
Consumer prices                                  31.2      85.8        6.5       7.0    60
Implicit GDP deflator                            35.7      83.9        8.4       5.4      40
Government finance 20
(% of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                     ..      9.2       14.1      13.8              93    94    95    96    97    99
Current budget balance                             ..    -4.7          2.2       2.9                     GDP deflator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..    -7.9         -0.7       -0.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1977      1987       1997       1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..   2,715        6,813     5,723        ,ooo
Copper                                            ..     562       1,096       391
Fishmeal                                          ..      223      1,031       777         o 0F*
Manufactures                                      ..     726       2,121     2,032
Total imports (cif)                                       3,215      8,552    81199
Food                                             ..      438       1.302     1,315       00
Fuel and energy                                           237        780       579
Capital goods                                     ..     987       3,011      2.760 
92   93   94   95   96   97   98
ExDort orice index Il995=100)                       ..      76         101        86
Imoort orice index (1995=100)                       .       72         101        98               UtExports      Uolmports
Terms of tradf (1995=1001                                  105         10D        SR
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                  1977      1987       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   2,131     3,508      8,354     7,531       0
Imports of goods and services                   2,687    4,379      10,840    10,530
Resource balance                                -556      -871      -2,486    -2,999     -2
Net income                                       -423   -1.221      -1,407    -1,454
Net current transfers                               -         ..      485        665      -4
Current account balance                         -926   -1,974       -3,408    -3,788     1-6
Financing items (net)                            971       826       4,401     2,785
Changes in net reserves                           -46    1,148        -993     1,003                          _  
Memo:
Reserves includinnoold (USSmillions)             398    1.159       11.254     9.971
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)              8.38E-8  3.00E-5         2.7        2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987        1997      1998
(USS millons)                                                                              Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            9,171    17,485     30,496    32,419
lBRD                                           171     1,214      1,920      2,128                           A: 2.128
IDA                                               0        0          0          0             G: 7,450    _ C         90S
Total debt service                              1,136      481       2,936     2.452                                         2.520
lORD                                            22        50        182        184
IDA                                              0         0          0          0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 19        94        222
Official creditors                             586       292        963    -1,323
Private creditors                               17        79        373      1,772                                      E: 11,486
Foreign direct investment                       54        32       2,005     1,968           F: 7,930 |
Portfolio equity                                 0         0        348       -369
World Bank program
Commitments                                     60         0        507         38      A - i8RO                        E - SBiteral9
Disbursements                                   33        63        490        271      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            10        31         6S         64      G cMF                           G - Short-term
Net flows                                       23        32        425        207
Interest payments                               13        19        117        120
Net transfers                                   10        13        308         87
Development Economics                                                                                                           9/8/99
- 37 -



Annex 1 1
Peru: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Project Implementation Plan
I. Institutional Arrangements
Organization Responsible for the Project: Ministry of Women and Human Development
(PROMUDEH)
Implementation Agreements: The Technical Group (TG) within the Technical Secretariat for
Indigenous Affairs (SETAI) will be responsible for project implementation.
Responsibilities for the Multisectoral Commission for Indigenous Affairs (CAI): CAI, acting as
a directive committee of the project and based on its established by-laws, will provide advice and
guidance to SETAI/TG throughout the project implementation process. CAI will specifically
review and approve the project implementation action plans which will be executed by SETAI in
the five pilot zones along with the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities.
Participation Arrangements: Zonal Forums (ZF) supported by the SETAI/TG will provide a
direct link to participating local community-based organizations in capacity building initiatives,
monitoring and evaluation as well as in assisting in preparation of proposals for the community
development project "learning by doing" component. A detailed description of organizational
structure of the ZFs will be included in the Operational Manual.
Role of Bank during project implementation: The project will receive close support from the
Task Manager and the Peru Resident Mission in regards to project implementation and
supervision.
Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation: CAI and SETAI will create a
Technical Group (TG). The TG will present in coordination with SETAI a project
implementation action plan to CAI for review and approval. The TG will also administer project
resources, prepare, supervise and monitor payments of contracts and consultant services
agreements, maintain financial records to be made available to Bank missions and independent
auditors, and submit quarterly progress reports detailing planned and actual expenditures which
will trigger quarterly disbursements. The following figure shows these arrangements.
| SESTAI 0 > ~~~~~~~Commissionon
Indigenous
s !                  <  ~~~~~~~~Affairs (CAI) 
Technical Group
Pilot Zones
Zone 3             Ze  4el]
38



2. Implementation Schedule
The figure below displays the time bound implementation schedule, including monitoring and
reporting requirements and end-of-project impact evaluation and strategic design study for follow-
on-action.
Project Activities  1999             2000                  2001                2002
Sept Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar May Dec Mar June Sept Dec Mar June July
Establishment of
Technical Group                   X
(TG)
Selection of TG
Coordinator and                   X
Administrator
Establishment of 5
Zone Committees                        X
Selection of Zone
Coordinators                           X
Zonal Training
and Institutional                           X    X
Dev. Diagnostics
Consolidate
training plans                                   X
Initiate training
program                                               X    X    X    X    X    X    X      X
Initiate
community                                             X    X    X    X    X    X    X      X
development
projects
Monitoring and
Evaluation                                            X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X
39



Annex 12
Areas de Intervenci6n -Aspectos Operativos
Introducci6n
Las Areas de intervenci6n han sido seleccionadas de acuerdo a la combinaci6n de cinco indicadores
especificos: (i) diversidad cultural; (ii) poblaci6n indigena en extrema pobreza por distrito, (iii)
articulaci6n territorial de pueblos indigenas por distrito; (iv) recursos naturales; y (v) similares
formas y capacidades organizativas. Como resultado se presentan 5 zonas de intervenci6n las cuales
seran el area de influencia del Proyecto. Una vez que se seleccionaron las Areas, se llevo a cabo la
validaci6n en cada zona. Esta actividad permiti6 Ilevar a cabo un proceso de consultas a informantes
calificados de las comunidades y organizaciones. Los aspectos operacionales de implementaci6n
del Proyecto por zona seleccionada comprenden las siguientes organizaciones:
(a) Establecimiento de un Foro Zonal.  En este comite participarAn los representantes de las
organizaciones indigenas existentes en cada una de las zonas seleccionadas. SerA un foro permanente
de discusi6n de analisis y seguimiento del Proyecto, y que seleccionara al coordinador zonal de
acuerdo a los t6rminos de referencia que se aprueben.
Coordinador Zonal. El Coordinador Zonal es un profesional que goza del respeto y confianza de las
organizaciones y comunidades de la zona. Tendra a su responsabilidad la implementacion de los
componentes del Proyecto, sus actividades seran programadas en un Plan Operativo Anual (POA)
que es presentado al Foro zonal y a la coordinaci6n del Proyecto, el Coordinador Zonal es parte del
Equipo Tecnico (ET) del Proyecto.
Metodologia Utilizada
1. Ubicacion de la Poblaci6n Indigena
-1.. Diversidad Cultural.
Las sub-zonas han sidos dividas en base a caracteristicas etno-culturales y fisiograficas.
1.2 Poblacion indigena en extrema pobreza
Identificaci6n de los distritos que se encuentran en los niveles de vida de pobres extremos y muy
pobres, considerando los siguientes criterios:
Niveles de vida                                  Indice de pobreza
Pobres extremos                                          De 29 a 36.99
Muy Pobre                                                De 21 a 28.99
Pobres                                                   De 14 a 20.99
Regular                                                  De 7 a 13.99
Aceptable                                                De I a 6.99
La metodologia para el calculo del indice es la utilizada por el Ministerio de la Presidencia para la
determinaci6n del Mapa de Pobreza del Peru a nivel de distritos, que se ha elaborado tomando como
base la informaci6n del Censo Nacional de Poblaci6n y Vivienda, realizado en 1993 y el Censo de
Talla a Escolares realizado el mismo afio.
40



1.3 Agrupaci6n de provincias por departamento con mayor poblaci6n indigena y proximidad
geografica.
Efectuados los pasos anteriores, se seleccion6 por cada departamento las provincias donde existe
mayor proporci6n de poblaci6n rural y proximidad geografica.  Se configuraron 5 zonas de
intervenci6n a traves de la selecci6n de las Areas en que provincias seleccionadas en el punto anterior
de diferentes departamentos se encontraban pr6ximas en terminos geograficos.
1.4 Recursos naturales homogeneos.
Las areas designadas presentan caracteristicas fisiograficas con similitudes, asi como recursos
naturales.
1.5 Similares capacidades organizativas.
Existen capacidades organizativas para llevar a cabo la implementaci6n del Proyecto.
2. Poblaci6n con Diversidad Cultural
2.1 Identificaci6n de distritos donde existe diversidad cultural
Selecci6n de aquellos distritos que cuentan con comunidades afro-peruanas, segun informaci6n
presentada por Asociaci6n Negra de Derechos Humanos y el Movimiento Negro Francisco Congo.
2.2 Agrupaci6n de provincias por departamento con mayor poblaci6n rural y proximidad
geografica.
Efectuado el paso anterior, se seleccionaron dos provincias en funci6n de la concentraci6n de
poblaci6n afro-peruana y su proxiinidad geogrAfica.
11. Aplicaci6n de la Metodologia
1. Cuadro del proceso de selecci6n de las zonas de concentraci6n de poblaci6n indigena
El cuadro que se presenta a continuaci6n (Cuadro No. 01) detalla los resultados que se obtuvieron
al aplicar la metodologia antes expuesta para la identificaci6n de las zonas de concentraci6n
indigena. Los nuimeros reflejados son solo para definir la zona piloto que identifica 5 sub-zonas. El
Proyecto se fundamenta en el capital social de las organizaciones existentes en cada zona.
41



CUADRO No. 01
Comunidades Indigenas: Resultados de la Aplicaci6n de Metodologia
PROCESO                                  RESULTADO
1. Identificaci6n de distritos, en base al indice   * Muy pobres: 798 distritos
de pobreza de 21 a 28,99 (muy pobres) e  * Pobres extremos: 225 distritos
indice de pobreza de 29 a 36,99 (pobres  Total: 1023 distritos
extremos)
2. Selecci6n de distritos con poblaci6n rural    * Muy pobres: 584 distritos
igual o mayor al 60%.                  * Pobres extremos: 211 distritos
Total: 795 distritos
3. Selecci6n de provincias con poblaci6n rural  * 651 distritos
igual o mayor a 15,000 habitantes      * 91 provincias
4. Por cada departamento, agrupaci6n de   * 350 distritos
provincias con mayor poblaci6n rural y de    * 15 provincias
acuerdo a su proximidad geografica     * 10 departamentos
5. Agrupaci6n de provincias de un         * 71 distritos
departamento con otras provincias de otros   * 13 provincias
departamentos contiguos con mayor      * 09 departamentos
poblaci6n rural y en funci6n de su     * 04 zonas de intervenci6n
proximidad geografica
2. Cuadro del proceso de seleccion de las zonas de concentraci6n de poblaci6n con diversidad
cultural
El cuadro que se presenta a continuaci6n (Cuadro No. 02) detalla los resultados que se obtuvieron
al aplicar la metodologia antes expuesta para la identificaci6n de las zonas de concentracion.
42



CUADRO No. 02
Comunidades Afro-peruanas: Resultados de la Aplicacion de Metodologia
PROCESO                                  RESULTADO
1. Identificaci6n de distritos donde existen  * 12 distritos
comunidades afro-peruanas.             * 10 provincias
2. Agrupaci6n de provincias por cada      * 2 distritos
departamento, con mayor proporci6n de  * 2 provincias
poblaci6n afro-peruana y de acuerdo a su  I departamento
proximidad geografica.                 * I zona de intervenci6n
111. Zonas de Intervenci6n
Se configuraron 5 zonas de intervenci6n. La poblaci6n rural presente en estas zonas es de 1.4
millones (datos 1993), lo cual representa aproximadamente el 6% de la poblaci6n total del pais. En
el cuadro siguiente (Cuadro No. 3) se presentan las zonas seleccionadas, en tanto que en el Anexo
No. 1 al presente documento se presenta el cuadro de detalle de los distritos priorizados.
43



CUADRO No. 03
Zonas de Intervencion
ZONA              PROVINCIAS                    TIPO DE
COMUNIDADES
Zona #I Zona WARI                                Andinas
Departamento      Provincia
Huancavelica      Tayacaja
Ayacucho          La Mar
Huamanga
Zona #2 Zona COSTA         Chincha           Mayoria de Afro-
Ica                   Peruanos
Zona #3  Zona QUECIIUA-AYMARA                    Andinas
Departamento       Provincia
Puno              Chucuito
Cusco             Chumbivilcas
Zona #4 Zona MARANON                            Amaz6nicas
Departamento    Provincia
Amazonas          Bagua
Condorcanqui
Loreto           Alto Amazonas
San Martin       Lamas
Zona #5 Zona UCAYALI                            Amaz6nicas
Departamento     Provincia
Junin           Chanchamayo,
Satipo
Ucayali          Coronel Portillo
Atalaya
TIPOLOGiA PARA LA CLASIFICACION DE LAS COMUNIDADES
La tipologia es una aproximacion hipotetica basada en el analisis de fuentes secundarias de
informaci6n y aquellos recabados en campo. Durante la implementaci6n del Proyecto, se tienen
programadas actividades de diagnostico a nivel de cada una de las zonas seleccionadas para
identificar las necesidades especificas de capacitaci6n. Asimismo durante el diagnostico se ratificara
la tipologia, la cual serA el punto de referencia para la implementaci6n de los componentes
propuestos.
TIPO I : Nivel organizacional Avanzado
Aspectos institucionales:
* Junta directiva comunal funcionando y con capacidad de resoluci6n de conflictos
* Organizaciones femeninas coparticipando en la gest6n y direcci6n comunitaria
* Participaci6n de delegados de Anexos en la toma de decisiones
* Promoci6n constante de nuevos liderazgos en las organizaciones



* Servicios sociales basicos satisfechos por iniciativa comunal (salud, educaci6n,
energia electrica y agua potable).
* Participaci6n de la Sociedad Civil y de organismos del Estado en el desarrollo de
la poblaci6n
* Comunidad reconocida y titulada.
Aspectos empresariales:
* Contar con microempresas o empresa comunal funcionando
* Manejo tecnico y empresarial de los proyectos productivos de las organizaciones
y/o comunidades.
* Poseer acceso vial carrozable.
* Opcional: Presencia de instituciones puiblicas y/o privadas realizando actividades.
TIPO II:      Nivel organizacional Intermedio
Aspectos institucionales:
* Junta directiva comunal organizada.
* Organizaciones femeninas interactuando en nuevos roles y funciones
comunitarias.
* Promoci6n inicial de nuevos liderazgos en las organizaciones.
* Contar con servicios de educaci6n, salud y agua potable funcionando.
* Participacion de organismos de Sociedad Civil y/o de organismos del Estado en
el desarrollo de la poblaci6n.
 Comunidad reconocida.
Aspectos empresariales:
* Haber tenido experiencia en capacitaci6n y/o implementaci6n productiva.
* Manejo tecnico y empresarial inicial de los proyectos productivos de las
organizaciones y/o comunidades.
* Tener acceso vial carrozable.
TIPO III:     Nivel organizacional de Poca Capacidad
Aspectos institucionales:
* Junta directiva inactiva.
* Falta de capacidad para la resoluci6n de conflictos entre los lideres de las
agrupaciones comunales.
* Contar con los servicios basicos de educacion y salud (o por lo menos uno de
ellos).
* Participacion de proyectos especiales focalizados del Estado.
Aspectos empresariales:
* Ninguno
(Detailed information and statistics for areas of intervention are available upon request)
45



Annex 13
Peru: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Social Assessment
Introduction
1. The Social Assessment is based on the findings of a series of studies carried out as part of World
Bank non-lending service on the subject of the economic development of indigenous peoples in Peru.
The studies were requested by the Peruvian Government's Ministry for Women and Human
Development (PROMUDEH) and Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) as background for the
preparation of a National Plan for Indigenous Peoples Development. The Assessment includes: (a) a
summary of key issues, lessons and best practices relating to rural development and poverty
alleviation for indigenous peoples; (b) an analysis of current legislation relating to indigenous
peoples and their rights; and, (c) a set of recommendations for strengthening the indigenous
communities and the "new" institutionality responsible for indigenous affairs.
2.  The objectives of the SA based on the studies were to:
(a) generate a body of systematic and reliable information on the demographic, socio-
economic and cultural conditions of Peru's indigenous population that would be useful in the
preparation, implementation and evaluation of Bank-financed projects and reduce the costs
of individual project social assessments;
(b) provide recommendations that could assist the Peruvian Government in the improvement
of the policy framework and institutional arrangements for indigenous peoples development
and eventually lead to thie identification and preparation of a Bank-financed Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL); and,
(c) make information available on indigenous development concerns to a variety of interest
groups, including indigenous organizations and communities, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), and academic specialists.
3. The studies themselves were initiated by a Working Group comprised of representatives of the
Bank and the Peruvian Government. The Working Group included the participation of different
governmental sectors, as well as representatives of the private sector, other international donor
agencies, indigenous organizations, and NGOs. These organizations reviewed the general Concept
Paper for the overall study. Government institutions involved in the initiative included the National
Program for River Basin Management and Soil Conservation (PROMANACHCS), the National
Fund for Compensation and Social Development (FONCODES), the Peruvian Office for Oil and
local government representatives. In addition, two Bank staff members, one from the LAC Region's
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Department (LCSES) and the other from the
Bank's Resident Mission in Lima, coordinated the multidisciplinary group of Peruvian social
scientists who carried out the studies and prepared the consultative workshops with indigenous
peoples of the Andean Highlands and Amazon region.
4. The overall initiative was conducted in three phases and designed in light of the central problems
of poverty, natural resources degradation and development facing Peru's indigenous population.
The first phase was the contracting of a series of studies by a group of Peruvian social scientists on
the subjects of: (a) Policies and Laws Towards Indigenous Peoples; (b) Ethnography of the
46



fndigenous Peoples of the Andean Highlands and Amazon Basin; (c) Indigenous Demography; (d)
Indigenous Peoples, Civil Society and Non-Governmental Organizations; (e) Border Violence and
Indigenous Peoples; and, (f) Migration of Indigenous Peoples and the Afro-Peruvian Populations.
Many of the findings of these studies are contained in the first four chapters of this report and the
English summaries in the several annexes to the SWA report.
5. The second phase of the study was the design of a Geographical Information System (GIS) on the
Peruvian indigenous population, its spatial distribution, and its socio-economic and cultural
characteristics. The GIS is to serve as a continuously updated data base to facilitate program
planning in the area of indigenous development on the part of Peruvian government, indigenous and
non-governmental organizations. Some of the maps that have already been prepared from the GIS
are reproduced in this report.
6. The third phase of the initiative was the conducting of two regional consultations with
representatives of indigenous organizations and communities, government agencies, the World Bank
and other donor agencies.   These consultations were held in Cuzco in January 1998 with
representatives of Andean and Coastal Indigenous communities and in Iquitos in June 1998 with
representatives of Amazonian indigenous organizations. The purposes of the consultations were to
gain an "insider" perspective on how indigenous peoples in the various regions of Peru view their
own development priorities, alternatives and paths.  The findings and recommendations of the
consultations are summarized in Chapter V of this report ("Towards a New Strategy of Indigenous
Peoples Development") and described in greater detail in two separate reports as well as videos
produced on each of the consultations.
Main Findings of the Social Science Studies
7. The various social studies conducted for the exercise address the roots of the current political,
economic, and social situation of Peru's indigenous peoples. Past development efforts aimed at
indigenous peoples have often failed to include their input and frequently have resulted in costly but
ineffective programs. Indigenous peoples have remained marginalized in Peruvian society. They
have a higher rate of poverty in comparison to the rest of the Peruvian population. In addition, they
have less access to social services such as education, health care, and potable water. National
political structures, including government organizations and legal structures, often undermine
indigenous communal organizations and. land tenure. The current document addresses these issues
and seeks to develop an appropriate development strategy guided and originating from indigenous
peoples themselves.
8. In order to understand the perspectives which indigenous peoples and their organizations bring to
the development process, it is worth mentioning some of the main findings from the social studies.
These findings provide a context for the development strategy suggested in the report and include:
9. Demography and Migration . The population of indigenous peoples in Peru is large-at least
40 percent of the total population if calculated with proxies to identify the bilingual or multilingual
population and 27 percent or 6.5 million if a strict criteria ofmonolinguism is applied to 1993 census
data. The vast majority of rural residents are indigenous people.  The indigenous population,
whatever criteria is used, is greater in absolute number than the total country population of 1940.
While there have been many changes to indigenous identity, a large population in Peru continues to
identify itself as indigenous based upon social relations, values, and family ties. An estimated 1.7
million live in registered indigenous communities in the highlands or the Amazon region. Urban
migrants from the highlands generally maintain strong links to home communities through
remittances and festival participation.
47



10. The Amazon indigenous population is estimated at 237,000 people; it speaks 12 different
languages and several dialects; and, it is divided into more than 30 tribal groups. The latter are
comprised of some 11 45 censured settlements and dispersed over 60 percent of the hation's land
area. Several of these groups are located along the frontier with Ecuador, Colombia. Brazil and
Bolivia where they are vulnerable to a variety of problems stemming from border disputes over
resources, hegemonic issues and the illicit drug trade. Despite their diversity, the Amazonian natives
are also drawn together by common environmental interests. They are often in close interaction with
a variety of external agencies, religious missionaries, NGOs and international environmental
interests.
1 1. Traditional Knowledge. Although different in the two regions, tradition-al knowledge is
important in both present- day Andean and Amazonian cultures. Andean cultural knowledge is
highly ritualized and forms part of the oral tradition. The complexity of Andeall knowledge is
contained in stories, songs, and myths constructed in maternal languages and conceptual tools which
reveal meaningful classification categories about time, space, seeds, plants, etc. Although all
members have equal access to knowledge, some family or community members are socially
recognized as specialists. Children learn this knowledge as they grow, gain-ing step-by-step more
responsibilities in their families and communities. The Andean knowledge is used in the context of
daily work and in the physical and spiritual subsistence of rural family life. It is regarded by peasants
as an art and devotion to nature and not just a simple response to material needs. Decisions
concerning the use of traditional knowledge depends upon a natural division of labor in wliclh all
members-- men and women, and including children-- have an equally important role.
12. Amazonian traditional knowledge also has a ritual component, but includes a wide range of
productive adaptations to the opportunities and demands of life in the Amazon regIon from huntillg
and gathering skills to tropical agriculture, to use of medicinal plants, and knowledge of ecological
systems. The historical lack of land pressure in the Amazon has made the system of slash and burn
agriculture sustainable and optimizes the use of a given area of land for production. However,
current and future demographic pressures on available resources and accessibility to arable land are
becoming concerns, particularly regarding availability of game. Traditionally, the native peoples of
the Amazon place little emphasis upon the accumulation of material goods and have few material
possessions. They raise their children to avoid greed and miserly behavior and as a result theft,
within communities, is an extremely rare occurrence. Family possessions are restricted to a canoe,
bows and arrows, some cooking utensils and a few tools. Knowledge of plants and animals, chants,
myths and legends, and ornamental designs are transmitted orally from one generation to the next.
13. Ethnic Identity and Reaffirmation. The majority of the Amazonian indigenous population
continues to live in and use territories that are traditional to the specific tribe or commuLnity to which
they belong and, despite acculturation from contact with outsiders, these peoples retain a stronig
sense of tribal and place identity. Only a small pertion of the highland indigenous popuiation is still
resident in Indigenous Communities that have distinct forims of governance and communal land
tenure patterns.  Private holders are dispersed among the Indigenous Communities, with varying
degrees of identification as Quechua, Mochica, or Aymara.  Despite the heavy migration and
population loss in the highlands, virtually every district, town, hamlet andCornunidad is represented
in Lima, Trujillo, Chimbote, lea, Arequipa and other coastal centers by one or more migrant
associations and clubs. Estimates for the numbers of these associations are as high as 9000. These
entities and their members provide strong economic support to their home communities and strongly
identify as traditional ethnic serranos (highland ethnic or regional character).
14. Land Tenure. There are five types of Indigenous Communities in Peru, which are organized
48



and officially recognized entities holding common title to productive lands. Members of such
communities refer to themselves as comuneros. In this report, the terms Indigenous Community,
Community and Comunidad(es) are employed in a generic sense to refer to all variations of the
category including:
* ComunidadIndigena, since 1969 called, Comunidad Campesina , a village level society with a long
history of communal organization; and strong socio-cultural values;
* Comunidad Nativa usually refers to those communities and tribal groups living iM the Amaz.-o l
region;
* Cooperativa Agraria de Producci6n  (CAP) are multi-community organizations created after 'i,5
1969 land reform;
* Grupos Campesinos (GC) are small settlements, usually former hacienda populations organized after
the 1969 land reform; and
* Sociedades Agrarias de Interis Social (SAIS) were large scale, multi-community organizations
created after 1969 to obtain "economy of scale" market advantages. Most of these have been
dissolved.
15. As of 1991 there were 4842 registered Comunidades (primarily in the Andean highlands but
with a small percentage also on the coast) and 874 Comunidades Nativas. Although recognized in
government registries as corporate land holding communities, the full legal entitlement and deeding
of the Community properties is slowed either by cumbersome bureaucratic processes. As a result,
over half of the Comunidades do not have final titles as much as 30 years after official recognition of
their community status.  This is a major concern of the Comnunidades and their migrant urban
relatives who retain community ties. Without such protection, they fear the loss of their lands either
through various forms of political or legal chicanery or changes in the laws, such as the recent
constitutional changes of 1993, which permit privatization of community lands. The latter increases
the vulnerability of the Comunidades and poses a significant threat to the security of their remaining
communal lands.
16. Legal Framework   The lack of a consistent legal framework securing indigenous rights
presents a severe obstacle for indigenous self-development. Indigenous communities have suffered
from past abuse and discrimination, political and social exclusion, lack of respect for the human
rights of their members and political violence.  Rooted in the colonial legacy, Peruvian national
society disrespects the collective rights of indigenous communities and in acknowledging their full
rights as citizens. A major concern of the indigenous communities is that the establishment of a
legal framework guaranteeing their secure access to land and other natural resources is an essential
requirement for successful indigenous development.  Another essential step is to ensure the
enforcement of these rights-the latter being crucial for the improvement of living conditions.
17. Afro-Peruvian Population. Finally, while not indigenous, either in their world view or in a
strictly legal or political sense, the Afro-Peruvian population has suffered similar conditions of
historical discrimination and lack of justice and a common sense of identity related to a common
historical struggle for basic human and civil rights. The Afro-Peruvian population's primary
organizational structure comes from a shared geographical and tribal origin of Congo, Terranovas,
Lucumies, and other tribes. These tribal identities and cultures were lost during their years of
slavery and later acculturation. During slavery the only legal organization allowed this population
was the Cofradias, or religious assemblies. Today, there are an estimated 1.4 million Afro-
49



Peruvians, most of whom are concentrated on the coast and in urban centers.
Conditions and Constraints to Indigenous Peoples Development
18. The two regional consultations jointly sponsored by the World Bank and PROMUDEH in
January and June 1998 allowed indigenous leaders from the highlands and the Amazon to identify
conditions and constraints to indigenous development in Peru. The indigenous leaders particularly
highlighted the conventional lack of consultation for development projects aimed at indigenous
peoples. As a result, they noted that these projects are often misguided and promote culturally
inappropriate and inadequate development strategies. The consultations also emphasized that the
high rates of poverty amongst indigenous peoples are tied to the general social marginality of
indigenous peoples within Peruvian national society and the economy.
19. To remedy this situation, the indigenous leaders stressed that discrimination against indigenous
peoples as well as the recognition and protection of indigenous peoples rights urgently need to be
addressed. The traditional land and governance structures of the Indigenous Communities are
vulnerable to legal and constitutional reforms that have at times failed to recognize these entities as
legal, putting into question their legitimacy.  The indigenous leaders also argued that natural
resource degradation and the exploitation of these resources by outsiders need to be addressed, and
indigenous peoples rights to their lands and resources need to be respected.  Furthermore, the
organizational and technical capacities of indigenous peoples need to be strengthened. Currently,
few partnerships exist between government, NGOs, and indigenous peoples for purposes of poverty
reduction and rural development.
20. At a more specific level, the consultations, along with the social science studies and other
research, reveal the following about the general conditions and constraints to indigenous peoples
development:
21. Poverty and Social Marginality Indicators. Poverty in Peru is a predominantly rural
phenomenon with a heavily indigenous cast. A recent World Bank report on poverty in Peru
indicates that of all the population groups surveyed in the poverty study, the native-speaking
population has the highest relative poverty risk, and this relative risk has increased over the past
years - which implies that the native speaking population is falling further behind the Spanish
speaking population.  The Instituto Indigenista Peruano ranked 81 percent of all registered
Comunidades as "extremely poor" or "in misery". Of the poorest 51 provinces, 94 percent are in the
highlands and 6 percent in the Amazon basin. Services have not reached these areas in quality or
quantity of other regions, especially the more urbanized areas of Peru.
22. Access to Basic Education, Health and Sanitation Services. The main social indicators (such
as illiteracy rates, mother and child mortality rates, access to health care, drinking water and
sanitation) reveal that the living conditions of indigenous people are significantly worse than those of
the non-indigenous population. Education in rural areas, although widespread, is of low quality
leading many would-be students to migrate to the cities. Bilingual or culturally- sensitive curricula
have limited coverage, and teachers are not well supported even when they genuinely wish to serve.
Health services are disproportionately concentrated in urban areas, with the- bulk of rural doctors
being young physicians who have a responsibility to complete a mandatory year of rural service.
This lack of access to basic services is reflected in high, school drop-out rates; low grade attainment
rates; high incidences of diseases related to malnutrition, and; persistence of chronic diseases.
23. Despite their severe living conditions, many indigenous representatives expressed a very
positive outlook for the future. One of the most universally expressed desires of indigenous peoples
50



is to gain equitable access to the operations of government and to the basic public and social services
offered to other citizens. In the education sector, community leaders unanimously mentioned the
frequent lack of cultural appropriateness in teaching methods and course content as one of the most
pressing needs. As a result of this, they support the development of bilingual and intercultural
education in order to enhance the abilities of students and deal with national society as well as to
strengthen their own culture.
24. In the health sector, the majority of modern medical facilities and personnel are concentrated in
the largest urban centers, leaving the vast majority of the Andean and Amazonian communities
without access to modern health resources. The indigenous peoples desire that their traditional
approaches to health problems be appreciated and taken into account in the context of treatment that
is offered in their communities.
25. Access to Justice and the Judicial System. In terms of basic services and citizen rights, the
indigenous peoples also demand greater access to justice and fundamental legal and administrative
reforms. The indigenous quest for equal access to justice is an ancient one. In particular, the titling
of land and water rights remains an unresolved issue for many Indigenous Communities.
Community leaders express the need to establish simple and transparent procedures that facilitate the
process of indigenous land regularization. From the communities perspective, this is a matter of the
justice system guarantying their legitimate rights. Based on the long history of past abuse and
discrimination and despite numerous improvements within the last 30 years, much remains to be
done before indigenous people will consider themselves to be on a par with other Peruvian citizens.
26. Traditional Food and Agricultural Production Systems. The traditional agro-ecological
productive systems of the indigenous peoples of both the Andean and Amazon regions are
recognized by scientists as being highly adapted to the specific ecological constraints of these
regions. At the highest altitude of production in the Andean region, animals are grazed and
specialized tubers are grown; at the intermediate altitudes grains like wheat, barley, rye, and corn, as
well as pulses, such as broad beans, peas, and lentils are sown along with a wide variety of
vegetables. Traditional marketing arrangements link these different agro-ecological zones making
for a rich diversity of animal, cultivated and craft products moving throughout the Andean
geographical zone.
27. Production in the Amazon basin also focuses on a variety of strategies, including a rich
horticultural, hunting and gathering and fishing tradition. Traditionally, slash and bum cultivation
(the so-called chacra system) has been practiced. Studies have revealed it to be an efficient and
sustainable system so long as a plot is used for only a limited period (usually three-to-five-years) and
then abandoned for a fresh area, allowing vegetation and thin soil to recuperate. In addition, tropical
horticulture requires a large extension of land. Multi-cropping is another characteristic of the system
with as many as fifteen different crops inter-cropped, and complementing each other in terms of
nutrients used or returned to the soil. This arrangement minimizes plant diseases and insect pests.
Another common horticultural system employed along the river banks in the dry season takes
advantage of extensive silt deposits left by the seasonal floods. On such open plots, farmers tend to
mono-crop or, at least, reduce the number of varieties sown.
28.    While much research has been conducted in recent years on the sustainability of these
traditional agro-ecological systems, little of it has found its way into conventional rural development
and agricultural research and extension strategies. In fact, there has been a growing tendency within
the Andean region especially to increase the dependency of the Indigenous Communities on "food
aid", particularly under the US AID-sponsored "Food for Peace" or PL 480 Program and the World
Food Program. While often well-intentioned, and meant to provide an incentive for such things as
51



community-based reforestation programs, they often undermine traditional forms of production and
labor mobilization strategies.
29.  Failure of Conventional Rural Development Strategies. The social science studies and the
consultations indicated that there has been a significant lack of funding from government and
international agencies for projects targeted specifically towards the development of indigenous
peoples. The national government and international agencies have made the common mistake of
treating indigenous peoples development as a special type of 'poverty issue" and have tended to
provide basic social services for purposes of "poverty reduction". Frequently these projects have
failed to incorporate into their designs such basic elements, from an indigenous perspective, as
indigenous languages, cultural identities, values and worldviews.
30.   In addition, indigenous human capital, organizational structures and traditional knowledge
and technologies are often ignored; and, sometimes new organizational structures are introduced at
the community level that provoke cultural disruption. The overemphasis on asectoral approach of
many development projects has also contributed to the fragmentation and disintegration of traditional
community structures. The result has been a significant transfer of financial resources to those areas
populated by indigenous peoples without a demonstrable and sustainable impact on the well-being of
indigenous communities.
31.   Petroleum Development and Mining in the Amazon.  In the Amazon region, a debate
over the activities and social and environmental impacts of petroleum companies has flourished over
the last few years. Decisions are being made in the absence of environmental/social regulations,
using unclear and inefficient administrative proceedures, and in areas where the state has no or
relatively limited presence. . Parties with opposing ideologies toward such developments attempt to
resolve conflicts without satisfying or reconciling all stakeholders, and; even in those cases where
the petroleum companies and the indigenous communities involved have shown a genuine effort
towards an authentically open dialogue, conflicts have generally not been fully resolved.  The
currently held view is that the active involvement of the state is necessary in order to ensure a just
resolution among all stakeholders, with  due sensitivity shown to safeguarding the rights of
indigenous communities.
32.  NGOs and Government Interventions. The above mentioned constraints combined with the
relative absence or limitations of the state in community-based, rural development has tended to
augment the role that NGOs play within indigenous communities. The focus of NGO work includes
education, capacity building, applied research, technical assistance, and publication and
dissemination of information about rural communities. Their main areas of operation are in the
environment, culture and education, production and credit (creditos yproducci6n), and democracy
and justice.
33.   Over the past three decades, the involvement of NGOs with indigenous communities has led
to mixed results. While some types of NGO-sponsored projects, such as those in the fields of
organizational strengthening and support for production systems, have tended to benefit indigenous
communities, others have experienced high operating and social and cultural costs. The relative
success or failure of these projects appears to depend on the level of participation of the targeted
group. Where indigenous populations do not participate, the costs are usually greater than the
benefits and vice versa.
34.    To overcome the limitations of past govemment interventions, indigenous representatives
have recommended to government officials that they integrate the concept of "institutionality" into
their policies toward indigenous peoples. By this is meant the formulation of amultisectoral and
52



intersectoral approach addressing indigenous peoples issues in an holistic manner. A multi-sectoral
approach can avoid the past organizational divisions of indigenous communities caused by many
competing government interventions. An improved coordination among different government
agencies is essential to achieving this goal.
Towards a New Strategy of Indigenous Peoples Development
35.   Communities as Key Development Actors. One of the major recommendations of the
regional consultations and a fundamental thesis of this report is the need for the Peruvian
government, in collaboration with the international donor community, to introduce a new strategy for
indigenous peoples development. The basic building block of this strategy should be the expressed
desire for Comunidades to be the focus for indigenous development. As legally recognized entities
under the Peruvian constitution, Comunidades have the ability to form direct relationships with
government as well as private organizations. Historically, Comunidades have functioned in the
interests of indigenous peoples. Despite the fact that many indigenous people have migrated from
their Comunidades of birth or residence to urban centers, they still maintain robust contacts,
connections and identities with their communities and regions.  This does not mean that
Comunidades should be exclusively responsible for development, but rather that they should act as
the coordinator to work with government, NGOs and smaller indigenous organizational structures
and entities.
36.  Indigenous Peoples Vision for Future. The indigenous leaders also expressed various goals
as part of their vision for their future, with some general themes emerging from both the Andean and
Amazonian consultations. Strengthening and building the capacity of indigenous organizations
based upon indigenous values and perspectives was seen as fundamental to enabling indigenous
peoples to have a clear vision for the future. Part of this capacity building effort, it was argued,
should focus on reinforcing sustainable land and natural resources management practices, including
the strengthening of traditional land management where feasible
37.    The indigenous leaders also envisioned an expanded role for indigenous peoples in the
national political process. This would help indigenous peoples voice their concerns and influence
policies that affect them. The establishment of a legal framework guaranteeing basic human rights,
human dignity, and secure access to land and other natural resources are also essential requirements
for successful indigenous development.   Social indicators point to a standard of living for
indigenous peoples is significantly worse than the rest of the Peruvian population. Improving
education with a bilingual focus and providing health care and access to potable water, while
respecting traditional medical beliefs and practices, are also seen as essential for improving
indigenous peoples standard of living. Community participation and control at all levels of program
design, implementation and evaluation are seen as fundamental to the success and efficiency of such
programs.
38.     Indigenous Economic Development Model.  The indigenous leaders also expressed
frustrations with current economic development strategies which do not take into account their
specific languages, cultures and identities and which tend to perpetuate poverty and exclusion. In
particular, the leaders expressed frustration that their communities do not have the same economic
opportunities as the rest of the population. One of the reasons for the high rate of migration by
indigenous peoples to urban centers is the lack of opportunities in rural areas.
39.     Among other things, the indigenous community leaders called for a  new model of
development that would take into account Peru's great cultural diversity and ethnic and regional
identities. From an economic perspective, this might include: (a) the setting up of a "National
53



Indigenous Fund" to promote social investment in indigenous communities; (b) the establishment of
partnerships among the private sector, the government, NGOs and indigenous organizations in order
to initiate regional development plans and coordinate specific economic development projects; (c)
the promotion and establishment of indigenous business, including training programs for indigenous
people in business and management skills; (d) the improvement of economic opportunities for
indigenous people especially in remote areas, using modem telecommunication technologies; and,
(e) the promotion of alternative income generation activities, including community-based
ecotourism, cultural heritage and handicraft projects.
40.   Partnerships between the State and Indigenous Peoples, Finally, the indigenous leaders
recommended that a new type of partnership needs to be forged between the state and indigenous
peoples for purposes of indigenous development. The old styles of "paternalism" or "clientalism"
are no longer acceptable to a new generation of indigenous leaders, many of whom are better
educated than their predecessors and have close links with or are themselves urban residents or
migrants. The new strategy must be multi-sectoral in nature and recognize that development and
change is a long-term process and must include significant learning, investments in training and
capacity-strengthening and adjustments to complex situations and results on the ground.
PROMUDEH can play a coordinating role i-n such efforts, but its main functions should be as a
normative agency, as an advocate before other sectoral agencies and as a development facilitator for
the indigenous communities.
41.  In order to build such partnerships for indigenous development, there will be a need for legal
reform, but such reform should take place in close consultation and with the active participation of
the indigenous communities.   There is also the need to develop and maintain a knowledge
management system with a sound data base on and about indigenous communities. PROMUDEH
has compiled considerable information and this needs to be made available for general use and for
access, perhaps through the diffusion of the new information and telecommunication technologies,
among the indigenous communities themselves.
42.    Communities with the support of the govemment and NGOs also must improve their
informational sources, reach agreement on specific and realistic goals, and gain the skills and
confidence to deal effectively with the government, the private sector and international agencies.
The development of indigenous leadership and membership skills and knowledge are fundamental
prerequisites of a new strategy of indigenous development. Empowerment of indigenous peoples
and communities for the tasks of self-defined development-that takes into account the rich history
and heritage of the indigenous communities-- demands knowledge, respect and skill.  In any
program, whether it be in health, education or income generation, the program's impact on these
domains needs to be evaluated, planned and maximized in a positive way.
54



Annex 14
Peru: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
Legal Annex
Legislative Framework for Indigenous Peoples in Peru
This review contains the main Constitutional provisions and international conventions ratified
by Peri applicable to indigenous peoples and an analysis of the definition and juridical personality
of indigenous peoples, and their rights to land and natural resources, both in agricultural lands and in
protected areas.
1.    Constitutional Provisions
The 1993 Constitution of Peru addresses, as matters of concern to indigenous peoples, the ethnic
and cultural identity of persons, bilingual and multicultural education, indigenous languages, the
legal existence of campesino and native communities, certain property rights and organizational
autonomy, as well as the customary law of such communities. Specifically, the Constitution:
* Recognizes the ethnic and cultural identity of persons and also protects the ethnic and cultural
plurality of the Nation (Articles 2, 19);
* Sets forth that the State promotes bilingual and intercultural education according to the
characteristics of each zone, preserves the different cultural and linguistic manifestations of the
country (Article 17);
* Allows, in addition to Spanish as official language, the quechua, aimara and other native
languages, in such locations as they are predominant (Article 48);
*  Recognizes the legal existence and juridical personality of the campesino and native
communities (Article 89).  The campesino communities are the indigenous groups of the
Andean highlands (sierra) who, upon the enactment of the Agrarian Reform Law of 1969',
started to be called, and protected, as campesino communities. The indigenous groups of the
2
Amazonia were identified as tribal groups and called, starting in 1974, native communities;
* Recognizes the autonomy of the campesino and native communities in their organization,
communal work and the use and free disposition of their lands, as well as in economic and
administrative matters, within the framework of the law (Article 89);
* Recognizes property rights of the communities as imprescriptible, except for cases of
abandonment set forth in the Constitution (Article 89). Abandoned lands are deemed by the
Constitution to belong to the State and can be sold (Article 88);
* Recognizes the customary law of the communities within their jurisdictions, provided they do
not infringe the fundamental rights of the person (Article 149).
'Law 17716 Agrarian Reformn Law, Article 115 reads: For purposes of this decree law the Indigenous
Communities will be called Campesino Communities.
2 Law 20653, the Native Communities Law of June 24, 1974, article 7.
55



2.     International Conventions and other Agreements
PerCi ratified the Charter of the Uniited Nations and the Universal Human Rights Declaration in
1959, the International Covenant of Civic and Political Rights and the Covenant of Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights in 1978, the Biodiversity Convention, and ILO Convention 169 on Indigenous
and Tribal Peo-ples in 1994, concurrently with the entering into force of the 1993 Constitutior.
Thus, the noTrns and principles of Il,O Convention 169 are now national legislation, and the Peruvian
legal framnework for indigenous peoples should be modified accordingly, as called for by such
Conventioni4. This ratification created, however, a legal situation where some rights which should
have been protected by the State under the provisions of ILO 169, were eliminated by the new
Constitution (for example some of the special protection features of indigenous peoples' rights to
lands and natural resources) and others rights which should be reflected in existing legislation (such
as a definition of "indigenous peoples" different than that of communities) have not yet been
incorporated therein.
3.     Defiritions and Juridical Personality
(a)     Definition and membership
Except for the definition of indigenous peoples in ILO Convention 169 there is no definition of
indigenous peoples as such in the Constitution or laws of Perui.
Article I of ILO Convention makes the Convention applicable to:
 tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is regulated
wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or regulations;
- peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their descent
from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which the
country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present state
boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own social
economic, cultural and political institutions.
It also allows for self-ideintification as a criteria for determining the groups to which the
Convention applies.
The indigenous groups in Peru are designated as campesino (the Andean highlands groups) and
native communities.
The Campesino Communities are ruled by the Campesino Communities Law (Law 24656) of
March 30, 1987, primarily an agricultural development law. The Campesino Communities are
defined as organizations of public interest, with legal existence and juridical personality, formed
3 The Constitution was approved by the Congress (Congreso Constituyente Democrdtico) on September 6,
1993 and the Convention was ratified by Legislative Resolution NO 26253 published in El Peruano on
December 5, 1993. The Constitution, after approval by referendum, was promulgated on December 29, 1993.
4ILO Convention 169, article 1 states that Governments shall have the responsibility for developing, with the
participation of the peoples concerned, actions to protect the rights of indigenous peoples and article 5 calls for
the recognition and protection of their values.
56



by families that live and control their specified territories, joined by ancestral, social, economic
and cultural links which are expressed in the communal property of the land, the communal work,
the mutual assistance, the democratic government and the development of multisectoral activities
which have as an objective the fulfillment of the members of the communities and the country.5
The Campesino Communities of the Coast are ruled, in respect of land rights, in addition, by Law
26845 of July 23, 1997. Such are campesino communities whose lands, or the majority of them,
are located in the Pacific Ocean coastal areas and not exceeding an altitude of 2000 meters above
sea level.6
The Native Communities are ruled by the Native Communities Law ( Law 22175 of May 9,
1978). There is no strict definition of the communities but of its origin. Article 8 of the Native
Communities Law,,v states that the native communities originate in the tribal groups of the Amazon
forests and are formed by families linked by the following principal elements: language or dialect,
cultural and social characteristics, communal and continuous possession of the same territory, with
settled or dispersed settlements.7
Thle Civil Code of Per6 refers to the campesino and native communities as traditional
organizations of public interest, formed by natural persons and with objectives aimed at the better
utilization of its patrimony for the benefit of the community members.
Metmbers of the campesino and native communities are, under both legal regimes, those born in
the community or which are admitted thereafter in accordance with the By-laws of the communities.
After one year of residence outside the community, the membership is lost except for those studying
outside the community, with an absence approved by the community or in military service9 This
restriction affects the rights of indigenous peoples to follow their own decisions as to membership in
an indigenous group.
(b) Juridical Personality
In addition. to the recognition of the communities set forth in the 1993 Constitution, the
Campesino and Native Communities Laws and the Civil Code have provisions setting forth the
administrative requirements to be followed to register the communities as such, and as juridical
persons. Such administrative requirements are in practice viewed, as validating the existence of the
community rather than purely recognizing an existing person.
10
The requiremrents, as described in a legal study carried out during Project preparation , are as
follows:
* For the campesino communities the requirements are: (a) that the registration be approved by at
least two thirds of the members of the community's General Assembly; and (b) that the
Community be in possession of its territory.
5 Law 24656. article 2
6 Law 26845, Law for the Titling of Lands of the Campesino Communities of the Coast, article 3
7Law 22175. article 8.
'Civil Code, article 134.
9Ibid, article 9.
'° Final Report (Confidential) Estudio legal para la Politica sobre los pueblos indigenas del Peru by Centro
Amazonico de Antropofogiay Aplicacion Practica, November 18, 1998.
57



The President of the Community should submit the request to the competent regional authority
with the following documents: (a) copies of the General Assembly's resolution agreeing to the
request for registration, approving the by-laws, indicating the name of the community and
electing the authorities; (b) a population census; and (c) an outline (croquis) of the communal
territory and the boundaries and neighboring
properties.
After all the steps are followed, the community is registered in the regional Registry of
Campesino Communities and, with a copy of such registration, the President of the community
can register communities in the Registry of Juridical Persons to fulfil the requirements of article
2026 of the Civil Code.
* For the Native Communities the request of recognition is made to the Regional Office of the
Ministry of Agriculture. Such Ministry will carry out a socio-economic assessment and a
population census before issuing a Resolution granting the personality. The resolution can be
registered in the Registry of the Native Communities, which is maintained by the Ministry of
Agriculture.
The requirements for recognition/registration described above restrict the form of organization
that the communities should follow by prescribing a form mostly applicable to the campesino
communities of the Andean highlands which was transferred to those in the Amazonia whose cultural
backgrounds were quite different, and the possibilities of more culturally appropriate forms of
organizations for those in the Amazonia.
The Defensoria del Pueblo, a State aitonomous agency, has argued that the procedures being
followed by the Ministry of Agriculture for the registration of the personality of campesino and
native communities are unconstitutional, by restricting their right to be "recognized".  In a recent
publications it calls for the concerned authorities to expedite the procedures for recognition of
juridical personality, to allow for self identification as prescribed by ILO Convention 169 and that
the registration be deemed to "recognize", not to create, ajuridical personality'.
The juridical personality granted to the communities is of a civil law nature, and ruled by private,
as opposed to public, law. The campesino and native communities are contemplated in the Civil
Code next to the associations and foundations. There is no public regime for indigenous peoples',
their territories, and their organizational autonomy.
(c) Other forms of organizations
The campesino communities are authorized to exercise their commercial activities under three
different forms of organization: communal enterprises, multicommunal enterprises, and participating
as partners in enterprises of the public, associative, or private sectors. The first two are described in
the Campesino Communities Law and can be granted juridical status upon their registration in the
Juridical Persons Registry of the Public Registries, under the Book of Campesino and Native
Communities. t2
4.     Rights to Land and Natural Resources
1  See Analisis de la Normatividad sobre existencia legalypersonalidadjuridica de las comunidades nativas
in Nosotrosy los Otros Serie, Informes Defensoriales, Informe No. 12, pages 21-22.
12 Law 24656, article 25 and 27.
58



(a)     Rights to Land in areas other than Protected Areas
The land rights are primarily set forth in the Campesino and Native Communities Laws, the
Campesino Land Demarcation and Titling Law, Law 24657, of March 30, 1987, the Law for the
Promotion of Investments in the Agrarian Sector, Law 653 of August 1, 1991, the Law for the
Private Investment in the Development of the Economic Activities in Lands of the National Territory
and of the Campesino and Native Communities, Law 26505 of July 14, 1995 (hereinafter the Private
Investment Law), and the Coastal Communities Land Titling Law, Law 25845 of July 23, 1997.
Under the Campesino Communities Law the right to land covers the place of residence, rural
lands, which could be used for agricultural purposes, natural pastures, as well as buildings and
movable goods within the possession of the community. The campesino lands were protected, prior
to the enactment of the 1993 Constitution, as inalienable, unattachable and imprescriptible. They
1 3
could, however, be sold by a majority of at least two thirds of the members of the Community
These provisions have now been superceded by those of the 1993 Constitution that only maintained
the imprescriptible nature, subject to "abandonment".
Under article 22 of Law 653 of 1991 after two years of absence of agricultural activity the
lands belong to the State and can be claimed by third parties as "abandoned". This provision puts
into jeopardy lands that are assigned to "rest" after some type of agricultural/ pastoral activity in
accordance with the agricultural management practices of the communities.
The areas utilized by the communities for forest activities can only be transferred for use, and
no land ownership is granted. The use of the forests is ruled by the provisions of the sector laws
which provides that the forests are owned by the State.
The State guaranties the integrity of the territorial rights of the Native Communities pursuant
to the provisions of the Native Communities Law, (a concept that is restated in the more recent
Regulations to the Private Investment Law) and is to demarcate and title such lands. Until the lands
are demarcated and titled, they belong to the State, and the State can dispose of them freely. Under
the special regime of Title II of the Native Communities Law, the size of the area to be demarcated
depends: (a) for sedentary communities, on the area that they occupy, at the time of demarcation, for
their cattle raising, collection, hunting and fishing activities; and (b) for migratory communities, on
the total area they occupy during their seasonal migrations.Y4
The land demarcation process takes years to finalize and many of the communities still do not
have the rights recognized and/or registered.'5
With respect of the native communities in an "initial-contact" status, the second transitory
provision of the Native Communities Law sets forth the requirement of reserving for land
demarcation areas according to the traditional management of natural resources until such time as the
"initial-contact" group can be classified as migratory or sedentary.  It has been argued that such
"reserves", which are not a category of protected area contemplated in the Peruvian legislation, offer
rather limited protection to such groups. 6
13 Campesino Communities Law, article 7.
14 Ibid., article 10.
15 See for example, "El regimen Legal de los Recursos Naturales en el Perui y sus consecuencias para los
Pueblos Indigenas de la Amazonia" by Monika Ludescher in Law and Antropology, Vol. 9 (1997) page 237.
16 Ibid, page 237.
59



The Native Communities Law had the protective characteristics of land as inalienable,
imprescriptible, and unattachable which were modified by the 1993 Constitution and the Private
Investment Law. The abandonment provisions of the Peruvian legislation focus on "agricultural"
purposes of land, and it is not clear in the legislation whether uses such as hunting, collection, and
forest uses (other than logging) would be deemed agricultural activities that would preclude
"abandonment".
The rights to land do not extend to the subsoil (minerals and hydrocarbons). The Private
Investment Law, as amended in 1996 requires that the owner grant the prior agreement to the
exploitation or the applicable right-of-way procedures be concluded]17 The mining or hydrocarbons
company is required to pay the land owners prior cash compensation for possible damages. This
right would cover compensation for damages but not sharing in the profits of the mineral or
hydrocarbon exploitation activities, as called for by article 15 (2) of ILO Convention 169.
There is no recognition of the "indigenous peoples territories", and there is not yet in the legal
framework a clear recognition of the right of ownership of the lands the indigenous peoples
traditionally occupy, for the protection thereof, and for the access to lands they had traditionally used
for their subsistence and traditional activities as called for by ILO Convention 16918 The ownership
is also, with the recently enacted laws, being assimilated with those of private property of other
agricultural lands and are ruled by the civil code, making most of the rights of indigenous peoples of
a rather difficult implementation. There is no recognition of lands as a political right of the
indigenous peoples. Indigenous peoples feel a special attachment to land that should not be left to
the decision of an individual. Additionally, the usual civil code provisions would not allow for the
expedite recognition of the ancestral rights of indigenous peoples, to the management of their
resources and to autonomous regimes within the boundaries of their territories.
(b)     Rights to Land in Protected Areas
The Environmental Code'9, the Protected Areas Law20 and the Law for the Conservation and
Sustainable Use of the Biological Diversity21contain complementary definitions of protected areas.
The Environmental Code defines protected areas as the areas of the national territory that the State
assigns for scientific research, protection or controlled management of the ecosystems, natural
resources and other values.22 Cultural resources such as archeological or historic sites which are part
of the environment are recognized and should be managed in a rational and sustainable basis. 23
The Protected Areas Law defines protected areas as the continental and/or marine spaces of
the national territory, expressly recognized and declared as such, including their categories and
zones, to conserve the biological biodiversity and other values associated with the cultural, scientific
and landscape interests, as well as for their contribution to the sustainable development of the
country.24
17 Law 26505, article 7.
'3 ILO 169, article 13 highlights the importance for the cultures and values of the peoples concerned of their
relationship with the lands or territories, and their collective aspects. Ownership and access and the need for
Governments to take steps to identify the lands and guarantee ownership and possession rights are
contemplated in article 14.
19 Law Number 615 of September 8, 1990
20 Law Number 26834 of June 25, 1997
21 Law 26839 of July 14, 1997
22 Law Number 615 of September 8, 1990, article 51
23 Ibid., article 59
24 Law 26834, at Footnote 20, article I
60



Depending on the authority creating them, the protected areas can be, under the Environmental
Code, national, regional and local, the national ones being established by Supreme Decree, the
Regional by the resolution of the Regional legislature and the local by the local Council. The
management policies applicable to all are set by the National Government while the management
belongs to the government creating them.
Depending on which authority manages the protected area, the protected areas can be
classified as under national, regional or private management. Those in the latter group are called
areas de conservaci6n privada. Interested land owners whose lands meet the technical and physical
requirements to be declared protected, can request that such lands be so protecteca5.
Depending on the nature and objectives of the protected areas, there are several categories
contemplated in the Protected Areas Law:
(a)     Areas of "indirect use" such as for scientific research, and recreational and tourist
use, which includes the National Parks, National Sanctuaries, and Historic Sanctuaries, and
(b)     Areas of "direct use" such as sustainable exploitation and extraction, which include
the National Reserves, the Landscape Reserves, the Wildlife Refuges, the Communal Reserves , the
Protected Forests, the Hunting Zones (Cotos), and areas of Regional Conservation, each of them
being described in article 22 of the Protected Areas Law .
As the most relevant for the Project as they can be managed directly by indigenous
communities, the Communal Reserves are defined as areas for the conservation of the wild flora and
fauna, for the benefit of the surrounding rural populations . The use and marketing of the resources
will be under management plans approved and supervised by the authorities and carried out by the
beneficiaries, they can be established in areas of agricultural, cattle raising , forestry and
conservation uses.26 To date, only one Communal Reserve has been established, the Yanesha
Reserve in Paracaz627, and many have been requested but are in the lengthy process of evaluating the
land claims/ demarcations. 28
In addition to the Protected Areas, the Ministry of Agriculture can establish Reserved Areas
(Zonas Reservadas) in areas in which complementary studies to define the type and extension of the
area are required. Under this status the demarcation of the existing communities can proceed so as to
finalize the titling process before the protected area is established.
Protected areas are, except for the private conservation areas, of the public domain of the
State,29and are established permanently. As areas of public domain, ownership cannot be granted
and for those that had private property rights prior to the establishment of the area, the management
plan of the area will determine the restrictions to the use of the property that might be applicable.30
25 Ibid., article 13
26 Ibid, article 22 g.
27 Resolution 193-88-AC-DGFT - published in El Peruano on May 1, 1988.
28 The INRENA officer I interviewed showed me the maps of the areas being demarcated, all surrounding the
prospective indigenous communal reserve of El Cira (to be confirmed). See also Liberaci6n y Derechos
Territoriales en Ucayali-Peru  WGIA, pages 209-217, describing land demarcation efforts for the future
establishment of communal reserves. (Ucayali book).
29 Ibid., article 4
30 Ibid., article 4
61



The State recognizes under the Environmental Code31 the property rights of the ancestral
campesino and native communities over the lands that they possess within the protected areas and
their buffer zones, and promotes the participation of the communities. In general the Environmental
Code states that the exercise of property and other rights within protected areas acquired prior to the
establishment of the protected area must be done in harmony with the objectives for which the
protected area was created.32
(c)     Rights to Natural Resources
The 1993 Constitution of Peru sets forth that the natural resources, renewable and non-
renewable, are the patrimony of the State and that the law would establish the conditions for their
utilization and of their granting to individuals. It contains provisions requiring the State to promote
the sustainable use of natural resources and to preserve the biological diversity and natural protected
areas natural resources and to support their rational use. 3 The concessionaire of the right to exploit
natural resources acquires a real property right to the resources.
Under the 1975 Forestry Law34 forests are defined, as a natural resource, as the lands which
could primarily be used for forest exploitation, its forests and the components of wild life, thus
encompassing the land and the forests together as the natural resource. The State cannot adjudicate
dominion rights (full ownership) for lands apt for forestry exploitation or protection, can only
transfer the lands for use, and the exploitation of the resource under a concession. Of the different
types of forested areas contemplated by the Forestry Law, only the Forests of Free Disponibility and
the National Forests could be authorized for logging. The State can do the logging in the National
Forests and the private investors, under concessions agreements, in the Forests of Free Disponibility.
Under the Law for the Sustainable Use of Natural Resources:35
(a)     the campesino and native communities can benefit free of charge and without
exclusivity of the natural resources of free access surrounding their lands, to satisfy their subsistence
needs and uses with the limitations of rights of others or reservations made by the State. The
ancestral uses are recognized provided they do not damage the environment.
(b)     The campesino and native communities have preference in the sustainable use of the
natural resources in their duly titled lands, subject to the rights of third parties and the State.
3' Law 615, at Footnote 19, article 54
32 Ibid., article 53
33 Articles 66,67 and 78
34 Law 21175 of may 13, 1975
35 Law 26821, articles 17 and 18
62



MAP SECTION






IBRD 3057 4
-0.          )o                   78-                  760',-               714                  720 ,0°
,'s           ~PERU                 w                     ,t     
'DENSITY AND DIVERIT                                               -                          --    --
-         OF THE INDIGENOUS                                            .  CLMI- 
-2s  0~~n  POPULATION   ,*                                                                      -0 s- J'.-a                    2
TU <ECUADOR                                                        -                -                               ; 
-Atd3 J(0(; X  C
>          8      ' ' -  4        -- t                                      B  R  A  Z  I L          
\,   N C A  H                    ..              
-lo~~~~~~~~~k                        c  -                      IS f    ' j    rc; A   o '° 
P A4 C  I f I C                     a         t      E-           :tJ 
0 C E A N                  */              / r-r w         
-12°  U  9;t?. ,.; ;V4 2 MA                                                                                            \12'
INDIGENOUS POPUlATION DENfY          f4/:f  !A,                               - '.               - 
L   55 v-%            0        P      i         .    ~~~~~~~~~         ~      ~~~~ABANCAY  '       s 
-T 4° i i ~~30 - S0%                               7KA r3 ,i Ft P    I A C };h-
20 < 30%                           >             ,          lG..           
10- 20%                               < '        >             f   '>^i,              '   
I  - 106                                    \    ..'.                               N.z*.
,99% SPANtSH t  wfts<
-                  <       ;      --  d S     ,,          PU~~~~~~NO   
~~ 16    (3    ~DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                    ,            ri'         _.                   '       1°
4* NATIONAL CAPITAl                   !'AE;IA                                                                [
-     DEPARTMtENT BOUNDARIES                                              _                       A t',       i
-s  NTE_RNATIONAE BOUtAME-'                                                          C       
TbismapwspivvadytheMvplsssnUrs#lsEarG  °    0  100 15) 200 250          MO EGUA      c      ;
sho   Cs opfrisnw   kqt*, nthe p-ftMeoSoi             -       LOMER '.. &  fo                            $   1
;   P>10°             7   ~~~~~~~~~~~~7- 1        .          7t'                 712°             '
FEBRUARY 2000-






IBRD 30327
-00                                                                760~                      740                      72' 000
PERU                                     **        ~       ~        - 
AFRO-PERUVIAN
PEOPLES DISTRIBUTION                                                                          CO0LO0M BI A
TMP     ECUADOR/                                                                                                                      ! 
1-                   -     " \~~~~~ IQUITOS~
-40
-~~~~~~~~~~~            0(                   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LC   ETO
Tir.    0 4 0 7   y
ROTooo                                mm1 - H                       (
Boy    A0BYP  O           -P   -t odbk; Meno2                                                                                                               6c-
-6"                        Ns~~~,                      Ta~otc
tombo~~~,eqJ~~O oc                  C`y
/ILAM  TYEF
-ChiorgoQ       OtozcoPA I
L..~~~=.'of                    Cruz 
/     N~AMR~                                                                                      B     *               
A       A       ooi0Tig 
P...yog~~~~~
ChcC?OnacO   URZ                          LHC
-RIAD        Tbcoche ~     ~    .
- H, .         M.,,.O  0-; 
Tir,go                 .~~0
cm. 60         HeroAz I%   AN U C  CAV    AC                               O'                       0
ScoVcet ol ae   f       ofroreo    .        CAYA Y4\                   ilopooI         
0  HUANUCO~~                           ~CUCO( 
Pa    n Moetln00 I    o          -            ooe   AANAYI
140                                                            ';IA                                   TJIA                                                    
\0          0 PAICO~0         ~                                                               Honon
RPIERS                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ol iII Ri& 4
I    I    I    I    I    ~ ~~~I    .r0 oau          I'AM                                                  EMO DUEG D I  Moz S Oo0
180   Groo~~~noyjodgmeMoo thetopoi MeSa o(o-nyt,eQmfto.b.rb.                                              tMALDNADO                            18X
800   780                      760                     7~~          ~          ~~~~~~                        ~~40  720   -'CHLI
I      r  z        ~           'HANAEICC                            I Z C                        P;






IBRD 30575
_oo            800                    78°                   76°-,                  74°                     2                     lo             o
ECUADOR                                    1                                    COLOMBiAi
-2°                                                                                             ,,e    .,Js5            @                         °
4  u   J     %            te                            aUF    a                              /        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
TUBEp iukA-- \           wj      - a         > '9-                             - '}t
-60    . /'   *<YAwk~~YS3   .MOYOBAMBA,t1                                                                                                  °
'wtMBAYEQUEliS                      ,                -     
CHJAMVCAAARCAV            .  tt                                                - 
.CHI'                              S A N                 
-8°   rrulL<ef          \it._  r  *i ,^;                 X~~~~~PUCALLPA  .8
JC ASH         p           \     J       ...
HUARAZO    ;   HUANUCO          J j        CYL             
ts,  -,t *PASCO  j
''tiX  t  '    eIRERCO DE   '       -"              
'  A                                                                        e i/'. >i*_  2$
J U N I N  W>e 
-12°                                      LIMA             +.                                  '--            MA   REDEDt                      12-
PERU                                                                                                      MALDONADO.\     -- 
POVERTY MAPr IUNAEC3 cuzcc-
STANDARD OF LiVING:                 ;0   BNA                                             :V       
-14°                      VERY POOR                   7. AYUiACUCH                                                         p P K   N  
| AVERAGE                                 <         {                             -*            
ACCEPTABLE,/ -, i-. ,
'  {         ~AREQwUIPA             . .. - 
DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                     --           .6 NO (                                   \
-16°                     NA:lONAL CAPITAL -,\"1°
-    -DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                              -.-          vg,,.
--iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiES *
Thismap op,oduredby th. Map Nsign Unif.fThe wodcl Bnk.  °   50   100   iS0   200  250M                    
Th. bsund.d.s col-r, d-e-nomtaio and any other inforahnn=;. f.-ti-
shon an this mado noti,py, an Ih bportiofTh. Worfddfank            KILOMETERS                       'a', uj    . 
1°   Grcup, any  nt dmnon te legal statusofany ierrit(y or any                                                                         1 8°
is,  reend ra-epart.-of-&uch b-udanes .-.
80,  78'      76'                   7f                    72                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 2000



