                       Document of
                     The World Bank




                                                   Report No: 30700

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                       (SCL-45360)

                          ON A

                          LOAN

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.0 MILLION

                         TO THE

                    REPUBLIC OF PERU

                         FOR AN
INDIGENOUS AND AFRO-PERUVIAN PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                      December 8, 2004

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2004)

                         Currency Unit = Peruvian Soles Nuevos
                            PEN$1.00 = US$ 0.30
                             US$ 1.00 = PEN$3.33

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1   December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDESEP    Inter-Ethnic Association for the Peruvian Jungle Development
           (Asociación Interétnica para el Desarrollo de la Selva Peruana)
CAI        Multisectoral Commission of Indigenous Affairs
           (Comisión Multisectorial de Asuntos Indígenas)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CONAPA     National Commission of the Andean and Amazonian Indigenous and
           Afro-Peruvian Population
           (Comisión Nacional de los Pueblos Andinos y Amazónicos)
COPPIP     Permanent Conference of Indigenous Peoples in Peru
           (Coordinadora Permanente de los Pueblos Indígenas del Perú)
IEC         Information Education and Communication
FONCODES   Peruvian Social Fund
           (Fondo Nacional de Compensación y Desarrollo)
GIS        Geographic Information System
GOP        Government of Peru
IA         Implementing Agency
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
INDEPA     National Institute for the Development of Andean, Amazonian and
           Afro-Peruvian Population
           (Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo de los Pueblos Andinos, Amazónicos y
           Afroperuanos)
LIL         Learning and Innovation Loan
MC         Agreement Tables
           (Mesas de Concertación)
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
           (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIMDES     Ministry of Women and Social Development
           (Ministerio de la Mujer y Desarrollo Social)
MTR        Mid-Term Review
PAD        Project Appraisal Report
PC         Project Coordinator
PCM        Presidency of the Council of Ministers
           (Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros)

PDPIA              Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project
                   (Proyecto de Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas y Afroperuanos)
POA                Annual Project Implementing Plan
                   (Plan Operativo Anual)
PROMUDEH           Ministry of Women and Human Development
                   (Ministerio de Promoción de la Mujer y del Desarrollo Humano)
PIU                 Project Implementing Unit
SE-CONAPA          Technical Secretariat of the National Commission of the Andean and
Amazonian Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Population
                   (Secretaria Técnica de CONAPA)
SETAI              Technical Secretariat of Indigenous Affairs
                   (Secretaría Técnica de Asuntos Indígenas)
SNIP               National System of Public Investment
                   (Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública)
TG                 Technical Group
TM                 Task Manager
ZF                 Zonal Forum

                               Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                             Country Director:    Marcelo Giugale
                              Sector Director:    John Redwood
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Pilar Larreamendy

                                             PERU
                 Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower´s Implementation Completion Report                  29

Project ID: P060499                                                  Project Name: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Pilar Larreamendy                                       TL Unit: LCCEC
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-45360
                            Development Project
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (63%); Central government administration
                            (33%); Sub-national government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Indigenous peoples (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S); Gender (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/23/1998                                     Effective: 03/01/2000                02/27/2001
     Appraisal: 04/19/1999                                         MTR:                             10/15/2002
      Approval: 02/10/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PERU/PROMUDEH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director:                John Redwood                                   John Redwood
Team Leader at ICR:             Pilar Larreamendy                              Juan Martinez
ICR Primary Author:             Pilar Larreamendy; Francisco
                                Jose Viteri-Romero


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective, as defined in the Project Appraisal Report (PAD Project Appraisal
Document, Report No: 19867-PE January 5, 2000) was to strengthen indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations so that they can design and implement community
development sub-projects, better articulate their proposals, and effectively utilize services offered
by the State and other sectors within civil society by promoting innovative methods through a
"learning by doing" process. The project sought to achieve its objectives through: (a) the
strengthening of the organizational, institutional, technical and entrepreneurial capabilities of
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations, as well as participating government
agencies; (b) the preparation of community development sub-projects based on participatory
designs, and organization of technical proposals with the required pre-investment studies; and (c)
the implementation of sub-projects with financing from the funding agencies.

The project design and objectives were consistent with the Bank's strategy developed in the Peru
CAS (07/22/97) with an innovative and participatory methodology without precedent at the time
of the project outset. The project included five pilot zones in different regions of the country and
involved a gender-sensitive methodology to ensure the active participation of indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian women's organizations in fostering their own development.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.

3.3 Original Components:
1. Institutional Strengthening of SETAI and the Multisectoral Commission of Indigenous Affairs
(CAI). This component would finance office supplies and equipment, Technical Group (TG)
staff, operating costs, training, studies, workshops, Geographic Information System (GIS)
software, and exchanges with other institutions working on the capacity-building of indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian peoples.

2. Capacity Building of Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Communities and Organizations.
This component was designed to provide training to indigenous communities in (a) participatory
planning, preparation, implementation and maintenance of community sub-projects: (b) financial
management and administration, (c) management of entrepreneurial and income-generating
activities, (d) cultural patrimony, and (e) development of community human resources, including
organizational, technical, and legal training.

3. Technical Assistance and Legal Reforms. Under this component, the project would provide
technical assistance to revise the legal framework for indigenous peoples, and finance consultation
workshops for the development of the framework.

4. Information and Awareness Campaign.         This component would provide training to State
agencies and civil society representatives regarding indigenous and Afro-Peruvian culture, rights,
issues and proposals, in addition to Information, Education and Communication (IEC) programs,
in the five pilot zones.



                                                 - 2 -

5. Community Development Sub-projects. This component would finance (a) feasibility and
pre-investment studies; (b) preparation of technical proposals; (c) promotion of meetings between
State agencies, such as the OPDs in PROMUDEH, to agree on financial resource allocation; and
(d) identification of innovative community sub-projects through a participatory "learning by
doing" process in accordance with the Operational Manual.

6. Project Management: Monitoring and Evaluation. Under this component the project would
establish the procurement, disbursement, accounting and finance procedures, by funding training
and consulting contracts and would define the monitor system for the training and community
development sub-projects, including a gender impact analysis.

The key performance indicators defined in the PAD (19867-PE) included both qualitative and
quantitative output indicators.Monitoring and evaluations were restricted to project reports for all
the components.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no changes in the project's original components. There was an amendment to the loan
agreement in July 5, 2002 when the implementing agency was transferred from PROMUDEH to
PCM. In October 2002, during the Mid-Term Review Mission, it was agreed between the Bank,
the GoP and the beneficiaries' representatives,      that the project would be restructured and
amended with the purpose of: 1) simplifying the project design by reducing the number of
components; and 2) allowing project investments on "development initiatives", assigning the
largest project budget amount to this "new component". These recommendations, which were in
response to beneficiaries' requests, were thought to allow the project to focus on the country's
and beneficiaries' priorities. On 05/12/2002 the project closing date was extended until June 30,
2004 to carry out the redesign of the project. During 2003 and 2004 the project implementing unit
(PIU) worked on the project's re-design; however, the actual restructuring and redesign never
took place for the reasons discussed below.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates the quality at entry as moderately unsatisfactory. The project objectives were
consistent with the CAS and the Government priorities to reduce extreme poverty. The project
design benefited from an in-depth sectoral analysis which addressed the self-defined needs of the
beneficiary population, as well as from a social analysis carried out by a team of the Bank's social
scientists. The project design defined five rural zones (Afro-Peruvian, Ashaninka-Arawuak,
Awajun Wampis, Aymara, and Quechua) for intervention according to socio-cultural criteria,
which were self-defined by the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian groups, in consultations.

The activities defined as to be financed by the project were relevant as they included the
following: to provide capacity to orient and articulate policies with         multisectoral actions,
enforcing participation    to empower the beneficiaries' organizations to manage their own
development. Some specific features of the project design contributed to identifying the
development demands of the indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples, which mainly included
attention to socio-economic and legal issues. Given that this was a LIL, the preparation time was
longer than normally required.




                                                - 3 -

The quality at entry fell short in the assumption that the project could be quickly and effectively
implemented despite its innovative approach. In this respect the main fundamentals which were
not adequately planned at entry were: i) a broad approach to the development needs to be
financed by the project. An ambitious number of activities were planned for the time-frame of the
project, with unclear indicators for tracking progress and outputs; ii) under-provision of          a
technological packages for capacity-building to allow training and implementation simultaneously;
and iii) lack of a defined system identifying the sub-projects, expected to be financed by the
cooperating agencies, and in particular it did not have a method for establishing effective alliances
with the State and other civil organizations; iv) did not pay enough attention to the institutional
weakness.

The identified risks at entry, namely low institutional capacity and uncertainty about the continuity
of institutional arrangements, proved to be very significant throughout the implementation, and
there were continued problems derived from the instability of the implementing agency's technical
and management staff. This was a design flaw in the project, although this was a Learning and
Innovation Loan with a "learning by doing" and "process-oriented" approach, the capacity and
participatory process followed in the preparation was not transferred to the implementation
phase. The weak implementation capacity of the designated institution should have not been
underestimated. In spite of the institutional arrangements introduced by the three GoP
administrations, these could not fully assure the participation of the public sector, communities
and organizations for an effective project implementation and management.Moreover, the continued
changes of the institutional and implementation arrangements, deterred appropriated and sustained
participation by the beneficiaries.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project was unsatisfactory. The project was unable to achieve its
three objectives: a) strengthening of the organizational, institutional and technical and
entrepreneurial capabilities of the beneficiaries as well as the participating government agencies;
b) preparation of community development sub-projects based on participatory designs, and
organization of the technical proposals with the required pre-investment studies; c)
implementation of sub-projects with financing from the funding agencies

Achievements in the objective of strengthening the organizational, institutional, technical and
entrepreneurial capabilities of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian communities and organizations were
partly met. One zone out of the five pilot zones, the Ashaninka - Arawuak, received technical
assistance and delivered a participatory strategic plan. The strategic planning defined project
profiles, including productive activities, basic public provision and natural resource management.
As for the strengthening of government agencies, the project did not have the adequate staff in
the Technical Secretariat, who were responsible for selecting the project Team and overseeing its
implementation. This led to inordinate delays in basic procurement and disbursement processes
despite an intense and continuous involvement of the Bank team in trying to help solve their
capacity problems. In the case of preparing sub-project profiles and pre-investment studies, no
progress was made during the project implementation due to the above-mentioned delays.
Consequently, the sub-project implementation with financing provided by other donors and/or



                                                 - 4 -

governmental institutions did not take place.

It should be noted that, during the first two years of project implementation, there was much time
expended in resolving the administrative and legal requirements to transfer from the PROMUDEH
to the PCM (11/2001-02/2003). As a result, no progress was made in implementing the project's
activities to involve and benefit the indigenous and Afro descendant. This delay led to distrust
among indigenous organizations and created conflicts between the national indigenous
organizations and the SE-CONAPA. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) in October 2002 clearly
identified the need to redesign the project by simplifying and reducing its objectives. Following
the MTR (2003-2004), the project           was focused on making the project investment in the
beneficiaries' "development initiatives" effective and defining the alliances required with other
governmental institutions to channel the funds (e.g. FONCODES, the Peruvian Social Fund).
However, with all the problems mentioned above, there was inadequate time to restructure and
issue the project amendment. Thus, overall the project can be considered unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Institutional Strengthening of SETAI and the Multisectoral Commission of
Indigenous Affairs (CAI). US$2.00 million
The overall achievement of this component was rated unsatisfactory. Its objective was to
strengthen the GoP's institutional capacity to formulate and execute policies directed at assisting
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian project implementation. These policies included                 reaching
agreements between the implementing agency and the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
organizations; reaching agreements between the SETAI and other state organizations; establishing
project technical groups and zone coordinators in the five zones; implementing an administrative
and accounting control system; carrying out training events and establishing an annual work
program for the project Implementation Unit.

During implementation, the project had two main phases: the first one, from entry into effect up
to the MTR (10/2002), and the second one (2003-2004) after the MTR (October 2002). In the
first period the specific activities defined for strengthening the SETAI made very limited progress
as did the agreements hoped to be reached between the organizations of the beneficiaries and
other state institutions for development planning.

During the first phase the project financed the core technical group: three project coordinators
and six zonal specialists (Afro-Peruvian, Ashaninka, Awaruna-Huambisa, Aymara, South
Quechua and Southeast Quechua) were appointed. During the year 2002, with the dissolution of
the SETAI and the establishment of the National Commission of the Andean and Amazonian
Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Population (CONAPA), there was a shift in the component's
objective towards providing support to strengthening the newly established Technical Secretariat
within CONAPA (SE-CONAPA). This involved changes in the project's technical staff. During
the SETAI administration, the project financed seven consultants for administrative and
accounting tasks; five consultants for strategic budgeting, procurement planning and preparing the
operational manual of the project. Despite the project support for capacity-building, the transfer
of financial records from SETAI to PCM (SE-CONAPA) proved to be more difficult than anyone
could anticipate, causing the loss of the capacity built up at that time. The major difficulty was the
lack of coordination between both organizations (SETAI/PCM) to effectively accomplish the


                                                   - 5 -

transfer of archives and information related to the project management.

In the second phase of the project implementation following the MTR (October 2002), the
SE-CONAPA redefined its work program (2003-2004). The project financed five consultancies
for management, procurement and financial capacity­building, but this capacity strengthening had
very limited outcomes mainly due to lack of continuity. The project financed two consultants
who, as specialists, provided guidance to mainstream the ethnic development dimension into other
GoP agencies. This was the case of the work done by CONAPA with two inter-sectoral
Commissions concerning education and land rights. At a regional level, four planned zonal forums
(ZFs) were established, with the participation of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian representatives
(Afro-Peruvians, Aymara, Ashaninka, Awaruna-Huambisa, Quechuas North and Southeast). The
ZFs coordinated with the Mesas de Concertación (MCs), the mechanism established by the GoP
to define an on-going participatory national dialogue with all Peruvians to produce a national
social pact and to coordinate decentralized development initiatives. The Zone specialists and
coordinator promoted the project locally and participated in      the ZFs. They also supported
gathering field data for the Technical Secretariat on the socioeconomic issues in the mentioned
Zones. The ZFs were consolidated as local spaces for discussing and defining priority
development with organizations and institutions. However, there is little evidence that the Zone
coordinators along with four specialists (Afro-Peruvian, Ashaninka, Awaruna-Huambisa, Aymara,
Quechuas North and Southeast) were able to improve their capacity for managing community
development.

During 2003 and 2004, the SE-CONAPA worked on issuing part of the documents required for
the redesign of the project, as the Operational Manual and project Implementing Plan, but its
delayed action led to a loss of credibility among the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations'
leadership. Conflict emerged between the Technical Secretariat and major National Indigenous
Organization because the latter wanted a greater say in the implementation of the project. It is
important to note that open conflicts were mainly between the SE-CONAPA and indigenous
organizations. Although the Afro-Peruvian Organizations expressed their concern at the delay of
the project implementation,     they did not question the SE-CONAPA's role in development
implementation. Thus the implementing agency, which had limited capacity to follow up the
requirements for project implementation, was immersed in ongoing conflicts that drew its
attention away from project implementation.

Component 2. Capacity Building of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples' Communities and
Organizations -US$2.33 million
This component was overall rated marginally satisfactory. The objective was to provide training in
the planning and management of participatory community development, including diagnostics and
development plans; in creating five zonal forums; in implementing training diagnostics; and
implementing training workshops for indigenous and Afro-Peruvian leaders.

On completion, the project had supported only one participatory planning program, and trained
the Ashaninka indigenous ethnic group to deliver a development plan. The project delivered a
participatory methodology for development plans, but had difficulties in replicating the innovative
methodology in the remaining Zones within the timeframe for project implementation. Six Zonal



                                                 - 6 -

Forums were established in the pilot zones, through a participatory process. The Forums were a
space that promoted a decentralized dialogue about the development demands of indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian people (see Component 1, page four). The project financed training workshops in
the Ashaninka Zone, to produce community diagnostics and participatory development plans, and
six workshops for the establishment of management committees in each Zonal Forum.

Under this component, in the proposed redesign of the project, the plan was to carry out the
implementation of some of the subprojects identified during the participatory planning; however,
the project was not able to fully define the management and institutional arrangements for
sub-project implementation, nor to establish the necessary agreement with other state
organizations to implement the project's redesign.

Component 3: Technical Assistance and Legal Reforms - US$0.41million
Implementation of this component was rated unsatisfactory. This component was directed
towards providing legal framework reforms and technical assistance to ensure beneficiary
participation. The activities for these objectives were (i) defining proposals for legal standards in
consultation with indigenous peoples; (ii) carrying out workshops regarding legal aspects; (iii)
defining a draft of a legal framework and submitting it to Congress; (iv) introducing administrative
procedures adapted to the demands of indigenous peoples; (v) creating inter-institutional
committees for the revision of the legal framework and (vi) establishing consulting and technical
assistance for the revision of legal reforms.

Only one national consultation with indigenous and Afro-descendant leaders, so as to draft a
legal reform on indigenous and Afro-Peruvian rights (Anteproyecto de Ley para los Pueblos
Indígenas y Afro Peruanos), was completed with project support, but the proposed legal reforms,
had not passed through Congress by the time of project completion. The main reason for the
limited results of this component was the prevailing GoP top-down approach to development
which contrasted with the beneficiaries' demand for a more participatory and empowering
approach.

In addition, the component faced challenges when trying to systematize experiences in legal
reforms, supported by technical assistance which was not specifically defined at the project outset.
The consultants, specialized in indigenous law (2), and consultancies on legal issues (5) financed
by the project did not provide clear guidance as to how to proceed with the legal reforms. The
project was unable to achieve its expectations for this component, to a large extent due to a lack
of local capacity among consultants and specialists to support a participatory legal reform
focusing on ethnic rights, as demanded by key stakeholders during the project's preparation and at
design consultations. This component depended to a great extent on political will, and
Government support in a sensitive setting proved to be beyond the capacity of the project.

Component 4: Information and Awareness Campaign- US$0.29 million
The rating of this component was highly unsatisfactory. This component was focused on
enhancing State and civil society awareness regarding the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian rights
and culture. It was expected to be implemented through workshops for state representatives, and
for the zonal technical committees which were holding workshops on information, education and



                                                 - 7 -

communication, (IEC). During implementation, this component was unable to plan a
comprehensive program for building consensus and working out an operational methodology with
stakeholders. The project underestimated the time required to build up replicable methods for the
workshops with such differentiated audiences and interests as State representatives and diverse
community members. The project supported the creation of the Zonal Forums which introduced
incentives at local level for the organization of key project stakeholders and attracted the interest
of development agencies. However these actions were dispersed.

The inability of the SE-CONAPA to respond to the priorities articulated by the communities led
to distrust and strong disagreements that the Information and Awareness Component was
completely unable to resolve.

Component 5: Community Development Sub-projects-US$1.21 million
Outcomes under this component are rated highly unsatisfactory. This component planned the
following activities for supporting its objectives: (i) carrying out workshops for pre-investment
studies; (ii) establishing agreements with other governmental institutions and cooperating with
international agencies for project implementation; and (iii) implementing community projects. The
project financed a development plan in one Zone, out of five planned, which included a list of
prioritized sub-projects. However the pre-investment studies for these subprojects were not
issued., and the sub-projects were not implemented.

In the period following the MTR , the project redesign considered sub-projects as subject to the
project's investment and not that of other donors. However,               neither the institutional
arrangements for channeling the funds to the community, nor the financial returns of the
sub-projects were defined. As the definition for channeling funds and available financing was a
critical input to the activities, the lack of a workable funding mechanism hindered the
implementation of subprojects as well as the relationship with other institutions.

Component 6: Project Management, monitoring evaluation ­ US$0.41 million
The outcomes of this component were rated unsatisfactory. This component planned the
following activities for supporting its objectives: (i) to establish a system for procurement,
disbursement and accounting in compliance with Bank procedures; (ii) to establish a qualitative
manner for monitoring and evaluating (M&E).

The project management established, a system for procurement, disbursement and accounting
according to the required technical standards.The project prepared the Operational Annual Plans,
which included the budget execution. The project supported a formal revision of the Annual
Project Implementing Plans (POA) and the technical note for monitoring. In the last year of the
project implementation, the project Team improved their knowledge of the Bank's financial
management and procurement, but the delay in all other areas did not allow them to put this into
practice, except for minor transactions. However, although this was achieved, capacity-building
was required and this was not accomplished during the project implementation Thus by the
closing of the project, the management capacity remained weak.

With respect to establishing qualitative participatory monitoring, because planned activities within



                                                 - 8 -

other components were not initiated, the qualitative monitoring system for evaluating
beneficiaries´ capacity, envisaged under this component, was not established. Although the project
redesign     included a strong M&E program, this program, like the others, was significantly
delayed, and at the project's closing date, was not implemented.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was very modest and yet it led to the issuing of a
Presidential Decree which established/ an autonomous and independent institution for the
development of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples. In spite of the limited impact of the
project, the creation of such an institution would not have been possible without the contribution
of the project in defining the importance and particularities of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
populations and initiating its mainstreaming in the public agenda. CONAPA was established by
the Toledo Administration to raise the profile of the indigenous agenda. However, it is important
to note that to mainstream the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian peoples' perspectives in the public
agenda, this organism underwent the common "growing pains" of a new institution. In particular
it faced managerial shortcomings which led to conflicts between the GoP and indigenous
organizations (e.g. with COPPIP, AIDISEP). The project also had the objective of developing the
institutional capacity of indigenous organizations to deal with State institutions. Although it had a
very limited impact, the project supported formalizing spaces for dialogue between the indigenous
and Afro-Peruvian peoples and the GoP, while simultaneously raising civil society's awareness of
the issues limiting the access of this sector to development opportunities. One example of such a
space was the Zonal Forums (ZFs).

Implementation showed that making an innovative institution work requires a certain level of
management and technical staffing, as well as time to build capacities previously at the project
design stage. In the case of PDPIA, as mentioned in other sections (see sections 3.1 and 4.2), the
implementation of the project also demonstrated that an institution in charge of implementing the
participatory development of indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples needs to be prepared to
work in a decentralized manner, to devote time, and have high levels of technical expertise.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The process of transition towards a democratic government and the necessary reconstruction of
the Executive authority significantly delayed the beginning of the implementation of the Project
and adversely affected the fulfillment of the timetable agreed in the Loan Agreement. A critical
factor was the political instability of the country from 2000 onwards, when the PDPIA was
approved, three governments have followed one another until the present time.

The Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Peoples Development Project (PDPIA) was designed and
implemented under three different government administrations. It started under President Fujimori
(01/2000), entered into effectiveness under interim President Paniagua (02/2001) and began


                                                     - 9 -

implementation under President Toledo (08/2001). Its implementation was approved and
implemented in the scope of the Multisectoral Commission of Indigenous Affairs (CAI) and the
Technical Secretariat of the Indigenous (SETAI); both created in 2001 within the Ministry of
Women's Affairs and Human Development, (PROMUDEH). In October 2001, four months
following the declaration of effectiveness, the National Commission of the Andean and
Amazonian Indigenous and Afro-Peruvian Population (CONAPA) was created to replace the
SETAI. In October 2001 the project was transferred from the SETAI to the Technical Secretariat
(SE) of the new CONAPA. The SE-CONAPA became part of the Presidency of the Council of
Ministers (PCM), which implied a process of approval by Congress, accomplished in October
2002.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors negatively affecting the project implementation: despite the best intentions the GoP was
unable to establish the required organizational structure and management systems to have a
proper project implementation. These factors were: (i) the number of institutional counterparts,
and technical staff (four coordinators in two years); and (ii) lack of clarity on the roles of the
institutions for implementing policies related to the promotion, inclusion and development of the
Indigenous and Afro-Peruvians' communities.

As stated above, the Project had three institutional counterparts as executing agencies. From 2001
to the first semester of 2003, the project's frequent staff rotation and the number of institutional
counterparts hampered the project's implementation. During 2003, relationship between the
CONAPA and some of the major indigenous organizations soured as a result of: (i) the
ambiguous agenda of CONAPA which prevented them from directing enough time and attention
to the participatory process required by the project; (ii) poor coordination among the
beneficiaries'organizations which led to an impasse, and the Bank's decision, in fulfillment of OP
4.20, to require a dialogue between the GoP and different organizations before proceeding with
the project's activities. The purpose of this dialogue was to generate a consensus and confirm
whether agreements on the future implementation of the Project could be reached. At the end of
2003 this situation was finally resolved. The dialogue confirmed that a large number of indigenous
and Afro-descendant organizations, particularly at the grass-root level, supported continuing
implementation.

The project was unable to build up its managerial and technical capacity. Moreover, in July of
2003 the Government dictated a set of complementary measures which put stringent limits on
public expenditures (Ley No.28034). This entailed a freeze on the hiring of new personnel in
public institutions. As a result, the project was unable to hire the Project Coordinator, as well as
consultants, to complete the staff of the Technical Unit of the Project. Neither was it able to
complete the acquisition of goods for the implementation of the planned zonal offices. All these
factors and the continued institutional weakness contributed to the Bank's decision not to extend
the project closing date.

During 2004 major factors had a significant negative impact on achieving the redesign of the
project. Indigenous leaders made several accusations against CONAPA and its implementation
and the project which made news and TV headlines. During the second trimester of 2004, these
accusations led to a number of investigation processes by the GoP (General Control Institution,


                                                    - 10 -

Commission of the Congress, Commission of Amazonians, Commission of Indigenous Affairs,
among others) overloading the team's capacity to respond and drawing the Project staff's
attention away from project requirements.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were a number of implementation weaknesses that reduced the potential impact of the
project. These included: (a) lack of adequate interpretation of the project's objectives especially in
relation to its participatory operational framework, resulting in the low participation of potential
beneficiaries; (b) inadequate experience in operational requirements for indigenous and
Afro-descendents policy and development participatory projects; (c) conflict of roles and
responsibilities among the different government actors; (d) limited knowledge and capacity for
applying the Bank's norms for project implementation; (e) unnecessary delays during the redesign
of the project.

PROMUDEH and the PCM, which                  had the project's implementing agencies (UPI), lacked
strategic operational and management tools, which adversely affected the project implementation.
These included: (i) issuing contracts with overlapping objectives; (ii) ineffective monitoring of the
implementation of the Operational Plan; (iii) procurement delays due to changes in the
institutional structure under which the project worked. In addition, cumbersome reporting lines
divided the Technical Unit of the Project from the Executing Budgetary Unit, resulting in poor
quality outcomes; (iv) high degree of staff rotation of the technical and administrative personnel.
This also hindered the accomplishment of certain conditions for the project restructuring such as:
timely issuance of the Operations Manual, defining the agency to channel the subproject's funds
and the criteria for assigning funds among the beneficiaries.

The financial statements 2001 and 2002, comply with the formats required by the Bank. The
amounts showed as funds received coincide with Bank records and the notes to the financial
statements the necessary information required by the Bank Guidelines and acceptable accounting
standards.The Executive Secretariat of CONAPA was still able to prepare the financial statements
required by the Bank, according to the International Auditing Standards. At the time of the ICR
completion the auditing of the years 2003 and 2004 were in process.

The auditors have abstained from expressing an opinion on the project financial statements 2001
and 2002 (sources and uses of funds, cumulative investments, SOE Statement and SA Statement),
on account of certain limitations in the scope of the audit. The auditors concluded that
PROMUDEH and PCM did not comply with the terms of the agreement and applicable laws and
regulations mainly because of deficiencies in applying procurement procedures, inadequate use of
credit funds and the lack of compliance with financial covenants. The auditors report serious
internal control deficiencies that have affected the project's capacity to prepare financial
statements and to manage project proceeds.

Since April 2004, the World Bank, Department of Institutional Integrity has been reviewing
allegations of corruption which surfaced in local media. This review is still ongoing. The
commencement of a review does not suggest that misuse of Bank funds has occurred. Upon
completion of the investigation, the Bank will communicate its findings to the Government of
Peru and will determine whether it is necessary to recommend any administrative action.


                                                    - 11 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
There was no significant change in the project costs. Procurement of goods or services did not
involve price increments. It is also necessary to point out that the original design of the Project
was programmed to procure goods for the project at a value not to exceed US$ 40,000.00. In the
initial supervision mission of the World Bank held in July 2001, it was deemed necessary to
increase the amount of the category of goods procurement to US$ 100,000.00, with the
respective No-Objection Letter. There were no delays in requests for payment and disbursements
from the World Bank. The GoP fulfilled its obligation in granting the counterpart funds
established in the Loan Agreement. The extension was however to allow for the project's
restructuring, the project closed in June 30, 2004, after one extension.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project was not envisaged at the project design but rather considered as a
"learning by doing" process. There were limited results in development planning and no instances
of sustainability given in sub-project implementation. While there was only a very modest success
in articulating the State's sectoral services offer to satisfy the demands of indigenous and
Afro-descendants, the project introduced the specific area of indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
peoples development within a decentralization process through an alliance of the Zonal Forums
(ZFs) with the Mesas de Concertación.

Although the performance of the project fell short of everyone's expectations, the project
succeeded in putting the agenda of indigenous people and Afro-descendants on the mind of
different branches of the government. Given the many years of marginalizing this population, this
can be considered as a turning point in the inclusion agenda for Peru. The historical
marginalization of the indigenous and Afro-descendant population has resulted in a lack of
adequate government institutions as well as operational procedures and mechanisms for this
development agenda. Thus the Bank and the Government need to remain committed to
responding to the self-defined needs of these communities.

Based on the lessons learned and the new institutional arrangements under way, future
development interventions directed at indigenous and Afro-descendants would have greater
likelihood of success. After the project's closing date, there is persisting interest by the GoP and
it has started to work on a proposal for the constitution of a Decentralized Public Organization,
which would be called the National Institute for the Development of the Andean, Amazonian and
Afro-Peruvian Population, Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo de los Pueblos Andinos, Amazónicos
y Afroperuanos (INDEPA). Nevertheless, it is still uncertain whether            this would have the
fundamental functions of establishing normative and technical criteria for the execution of public
policies targeted at the Andean, Amazonian and Afro-Peruvian Population. This is intended to
assure the development of pertinent policies and ensure their correct application.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
GoP has committed to systematizing the lesson learned with the PDPIA, and using it as a guide
to help to define the adequate new institutional arrangements, avoiding past mistakes, and
reinforcing participation to bring about an inclusive development among indigenous and


                                                  - 12 -

Afro-descendant communities.       One lesson from the PDPIA is that the new institutional
arrangements require sustained training in both management and technical mechanisms and tools.
It also is important to note a new project needs to develop training and capacity-building methods
and tools beforehand to assure the inclusion of the beneficiaries' organizations. Efforts have to be
made to avoid repeating past mistakes by: (i) reinforcing consultation processes for development
projects aimed at indigenous and Afro descendants peoples, (ii) identifying effective mechanisms
for transferring financial resources to the beneficiary communities in a decentralized operational
approach; and (iii) avoiding a top-down development approach, defining clear partnership
mechanisms with other key development stake holders.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was partially
satisfactory. It did well when supporting design resolutions: (i) the project was designed to
address a clear development need and consistent with CAS; (ii) the Bank worked with the
government when defining the development needs through a sectoral analysis approach and
defined the zones for intervention; (iii) the Bank fielded comprehensive missions of at least eight
members, which included expertise in financial analysis, community development, operations,
economics, social and indigenous issues. The project issued a detailed implementation work plan.
Terms of reference for major reports were thoroughly reviewed. It could be argued, however, that
such lengthy preparation was inconsistent with the concept of a LIL and that many of the
activities could have been completed during the project's preparation phase.

The Bank's performance fell short in the lending phase mainly because, despite the technical
support provided, the Bank underestimated the daunting challenges ahead, given the lack of
expert and knowledgeable counterpart institution and teams.          This led  to the Bank being
over-optimistic and not effective in different instances. Despite having had lengthy process for
the LIL design, the project fell short on the following: (a) it should have had a simpler approach
for the subproject implementation, and a reduced number of components could have facilitated its
implementation; the design was over engineered and complex for this instrument; (b) it should
have recommended that, given the innovative technical approach of the project, two years was
too short a time-frame for the project's implementation; (c) the political context, while identified
as potential risk at the project's outset, proved more challenging than expected, and thus the
proposed mitigation mechanisms were insufficient. Peru's political instability was reflected in
various changes, for example it had three Prime Ministers during the project implementation
under the PCM; and (d) although preparation and appraisal identified that GoP programs could be
"top-down" and "paternalistic", the mitigation mechanisms were not appropriate; (e) the activities
concerning legal and policy reforms and the mechanisms to be put in place proved insufficient
given the complexity of the political context. The proposed project redesign that did not
materialize in the end would have been more appropriate.

The Bank's performance at appraisal was also partially satisfactory. The Bank's appraisal team
was a mission which included a comprehensive mixed skill team. The Government's commitment
was well evaluated and documented. Procurement and financial management capacities were well



                                               - 13 -

reviewed. All relevant safeguard policies were reviewed, thoroughly discussed, and agreed to with
the Government. An extensive social review was part of the project preparation and studies
provided information on various issues. Consultations were undertaken to orient the GoP in the
implementation; recommendations were made to assist the improvement of the policy framework;
and studies were disseminated among key stakeholders. Continuity from identification through to
appraisal was strong. However, the appraisal was partially satisfactory because, despite the
technical support provided at the time, it did not properly guide the implementation for both the
Bank and the GoP, and was not based on a shared knowledge between the Bank and the
government implementers.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision during the first two years was continuous and conducted by the field office staff
based in Lima, but lacked an early identification of the project's weakness, especially due to
implementation capacity, which was worsened by the change of institutional arrangements for the
project implementation. These issues were raised in the MTR, October 2002, fifteen months after
the project's entry into effectiveness. Management in the field on the part of the Bank was not
fully adequate, and did not have the management capacities to provide operational mechanisms
for the LIL's innovative approach. This became evident less than one year remaining for the
project completion. To mitigate this situation and recognizing the need to support indigenous and
Afro-Peruvian peoples, the project was extended for two more years with a plan to restructure it.
During the following period, from 12/2002 to 06/2004, the Bank and the SE-CONAPA worked
tirelessly to make the new project design effective; however, it did not succeed         in being
restructured.

The Bank met its formal supervision requirements for the most part of the project implementation.
It provided timely responses and action letters to requests, and carried out post procurement and
financial reviews. During 2002, the agreement reached among the GoP, the beneficiaries and the
Bank initiated the project redesign to make it simpler and more attuned to the needs of the
community. The Bank's project team reinforced the frequency and content of support to the
implementing agency with the GoP's team.

Between January and June 2003 the Bank consistently supported the GoP in order to comply with
the steps needed for project's restructuring and the amendment of the Legal Agreement. In this
semester the Bank had 35 working sessions with the PIU team. Between June 2003 and June
2004 the strong commitment of the Bank registered ten field visits with a number of
comprehensive teams supporting the implementing unit. Most of the missions involved the Sector
Leader and on occasions the Country Director.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was partially satisfactory. The project had two phases of
supervision: before and after the MTR (10/2002). In the first period the missions included local
supervision and ongoing monitoring of the project activities. In the second period the supervision
was intensified, to deal with critical stages where the accomplishment of restructuring was
essential. The latter included working sessions with the Country Director and intensive support
from the Sector Leader, with frequent meetings at the highest levels of government. In this same
period, despite changes in the TM and the day-to-day supervision, along with the involvement of



                                               - 14 -

the highest Government officials and the Bank's management, the accusations against CONAPA
led to the closing of the project 30/06/2004 without further extensions, so as to review the
PDPIA and draw lessons for a fresh start. At that time (March, 2004), external political factors
affecting the project were severe, and despite the GoP's request to extend the project closing date
for a second occasion, the decision of the Bank's management was to close the project.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in the project preparation was rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. Despite the effort of
government officials during the first two years of project implementation, the PDPIA did not
receive the adequate support. On the one hand, the instability associated with the institutional
changes, the lack of a qualified technical team and poor management capacity were critical factors
which negatively affected the implementation of activities. On the other hand, the limited
involvement and participation of the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian organizations weakened
ownership of the project, producing adverse results and expressed in animosity and distrust on the
part of major indigenous organizations.

Despite the unsatisfactory results of the project, the Toledo Administration remains determined to
press ahead with the agenda of the indigenous and Afro-descendants for the next two years, and
has expressed interest in having the Bank's support.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing unit (PIU) suffered many staffing changes as well as shifts among a number of
institutions which meant that the project could not maintain continuity of its technical staff, also
hampering an appropriate technical focus. The severe criticisms from indigenous organizations
of the PIU       because of the lack of participation force the government to carry out new
consultation with the main national organizations as to whether it was appropriate to continue the
project, . These consultations were not carried out in a timely fashion. Disenchantment with the
project among the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian leadership, was due to the delay in results and
because, without the amendment to permit the subproject investment, investments were not
feasible. It is important to note that during the ICR mission, the evaluation team was repeatedly
informed by project stakeholders that continued changes in the implementing agency's team
produced instability and discontinuity.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Despite the effort of government officials the borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Due
to the above mentioned factors which negatively affected to the overall operation.

8. Lessons Learned

1. The pre-design and design, in this type of project, must collect adequate and validated
information. The PDPIA showed that most of the implementation phase was dedicated to
producing instruments that were not defined at the time of design, but which were indispensable
for carrying out activities. The instruments in question are as follows: a participative strategic



                                                - 15 -

planning methodology; a stakeholder training package validated as a pilot project to be replicated;
an Operative Manual; a mechanism designed to channel loan funds and the criteria for the
allocation of funds to the beneficiaries. It was considered that        because it was a LIL, the
production of the instruments mentioned was part of the process of "learning by doing".
However, it was shown that the lack of these instruments affected the pace of project
implementation, although postponement of the production of these instruments to the
implementation phase would likewise not have been effective in the capacity strengthening of the
implementation agency or the beneficiaries. Having these instruments from the design stage would
have facilitated the execution of the project. It would have been advisable to reverse some of the
preparatory activities and include the learning and the development of the instruments mentioned
as part of preparation.

2. Projects aimed at indigenous groups and Afro-descendants must have a simple design.
The PDPIA demonstrated that its design included multiple aims, making its implementation
complex. While the purpose of this project was to strengthen the capacities of the beneficiaries
and the dependencies of the GoP responsible for the development agenda, this cannot be achieved
without the aid of qualified technical teams. The project did not have an adequate team, a fact
which, compounded with the complex design, greatly hindered execution and caused continual
operational delays. In addition, it was shown that the delays led to mistrust by the beneficiaries
and conflict between certain organizations and the project. A simple design, with clearly focused
aims, would have made execution easier and achieving better results in its support for
capacity-building.

3. The activities of the projects aimed at indigenous groups and Afro-descendants must
include effective, agile responses for community investment. The LIL focus was primarily on
capacity building for community development expecting that ongoing government investments
would finance projects proposed by the communities. The            PDPIA confirmed that, for the
beneficiaries, investment in subprojects is a priority demand. Projects whose beneficiaries have
been historically marginalized must provide prompt responses and have in place simple
mechanisms and methodologies which ensure access to investment for the beneficiaries. The
PDPIA had to initiate a restructuring at the end of the first year of execution, notably limiting the
results, and closed without completing it. Having considered investments from the time of design
would have allowed for a response to a much needed demand.

4. The value of the project has implications which must be foreseen when selecting the type
of Bank instruments to be used in this kind of project. In the case of the PDPIA, it became
evident that the Bank's instrument, a LIL, and the value are factors, which had a negative
influence on the implementation. On the one hand it was demonstrated that the value of the
project was unable to capture sufficient attention from the central government, and on the other it
raised excessive expectations among the beneficiaries. If the number of population members
potentially benefiting had been compared to the value of the LIL and the aims of the project, it
would have been worth considering another Bank instrument. Similarly, the project was neither
designed nor implemented as a LIL, except for the size of the loan.

5. This type of projects need to count with institutional counterpart, legitimated by the



                                                - 16 -

beneficiaries. The establishment of the CONAPA was a step towards having a government
entity in charge of the indigenous and Afro-descendant development agenda. However, CONAPA
lacked a fully legitimization for     the    representation of the indigenous and Afro-Peruvian
populations. Consequelty, the LIL lacked an adequate counterpart which is key ingredient for the
success of a project targeted specifically to these populations.

6. Institutional arrangements require well-defined roles and functions. In this type of
project, it is important to have a clear definition of the roles of the project's counterpart
institutions, and of the implementation unit, so as to avoid the project becoming politicized. In
this case the role of the project implementation unit became entangled with the larger political
agenda of the CONAPA and the PCM.            The PDPIA demonstrated that ignoring political risks
during preparation leads to shortcomings and failure to accomplish objectives. Projects of this
kind therefore require prior analysis of the political risks and the upholding of a technical focus,
with stable technical teams. Moreover, the stability of the technical and the managerial team is
essential in this type of project.

 7. Indigenous and Afro-descendant development could generate important benefits in the
decentralisation scheme. The PDPIA confirmed that mainstreaming indigenous and
Afro-descendant development brings an opportunity for effective action conducive to
decentralizing development. The PDPIA confirmed that the alliance spaces established at the local
level by the Mesas de Concertación were effective in defining development priorities within this
institutionalised mechanisms. The project succeeded in starting a process, within the framework of
responding to multisectoral demands as self-defined by the beneficiaries, to assure the
empowerment of the communities in establishing effective relationships with the agencies
supplying public services in local spaces.

8. Empowering excluded groups requires a lengthy process of give and take where power
gains have to be negotiated every step of the way. The combination of weak organizational
capacity, lack of experience, persistent discrimination, and the inevitable fight for resources never
before available for indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples, make the implementation of these
projects both more challenging, but also all the more necessary.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                 - 17 -

- 18 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information




                                             - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Organizations strengthened during project   100 organizations strengthened             No organizations strengthened on
execution in the five pilot                                                            development implementation
zones.
Innovative methods tested and indigenous    5 innovative methods tested .              1 strategic development plan (Zona
development strategic plans                                                            Ashaninka).
established in the five pilot zones.                                                   1 validated method for participative planified
                                                                                       development (Zona Ashaninka-Arahuac), and
                                                                                       1 method for the identification of need for
                                                                                       training.




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Agreements reached between SETAI and        50 agreements reached between SETAI and 5 zonal forums.
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian                organizations                              5 management committees.
organizations.

Agreements reached between SETAI and        15 agreements reached between SETAI and 3 agreements between CONAPA and
other state institutions.                   other State Institutions                   intersectoral commissions, for territorial and
                                                                                       education themes.
Project technical group (TG) established,
made up of one coordinator, one             One project (TG) established               Technical Group (TG) nationwide, except
administrator and one                                                                  from July/03 to June/04, when the Executive
                                                                                       Secretary of CONAPA acted as coordinator.
                                                                                       5 zonal coordinators (except Awajun zone)
                                                                                       and 6 monitoring specialists.
Implementation of an administrative and     One adminsitrative system                  It was satisfactory implemented.
accounting control system in SETAI during
the first year of the project.

Training events, including workshops,       25 traning avents completed                 No training events.
meetings, exchange with other countries, and
international forums.

CAI established in March 2000 with an       CAI established                            No CAI established.
operational work program and regulations
approved by December 2000.
Diagnostics and development plans agreed    5 diagnostics completed                    6 diagnostic plans, one for each zone
upon in the pilot zones.                     5 development plans completed.            completed. One development plan completed


Zonal forums created.                       5 Zonal forums established                 5 Zonal forums were created.

Zonal training diagnostics completed and    5 Zonal training diagnostics completed     One Zonal training diagnostic completed, but
implemented.                                                                           not implemented.

Training workshops implemented with         140 training worshops with 1000 indigenous No training workshops carried out.
indigenous and Afro-Peruvian male           and Afro- Peruvian completed.
and female,


Legal standards proposals created in        Legal proposal consulted with indigenous   1 proposal, forum for indigenous and
consultation with indigenous peoples.       peoples.                                   Afro-Peruvian peoples rights. 1 consultation
                                                                                       workshop.
Consultation workshops held with
communities regarding legal aspects.        20 consultation workshops completed.       One consultation workshops was held.




                                                                - 20 -

Draft legal framework presented to the Bank One draft legal framework presented to the One draft legal framework completed.
by December 2001.                           Bank, completed

Revised legal framework submitted to        One legal framework submitted to Congress .No revised legal framework submitted.
Congress by July 2002.


Participatory workshops held for awareness  50 Participatory workshops completed and   No participatory workshops carried out.
and training of 250 state                   training of 250 state
representatives from different sectors.     representatives from different sectors
                                            completed
Workshops held to support zonal technical   5 workshops to support zonal technical     No workshops carried out.
committees.                                 committee completed.

Information, Education and Communication    26 Information, Education and              No workshops carried out.
(IEC) workshops held covering proposals,    Communication (IEC) workshops completed
rights and culture issues of indigenous and
afro-peruvian peoples.
Workshops held and community sub-project 10 workshops completed                        No workshops. No sub-projects implemented
pre-investment studies                       120 community sub-project pre-investment
completed.                                  studies completed.

Workshops and multisectoral agreement       6 workshops and multisectoral agreement    No workshops carried out.
meetings held regarding financing of        meetings completed
community sub-projects.

Workshops and agreement meetings held       6 workshops and agreement meetings         No workshops carried out.
with international cooperating agencies for completed
the funding of community subprojects.

Pre-investment studies implemented as       100 of the 120 pre-investment studies      No pre-investment studies implemented.
community subprojects by the "learning by   implemented .
doing" methodology.

Participatory monitoring and evaluation     A Participatory monitoring and evaluation  No M& E system established.
system established.                         system established

1End of project




                                                               - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.02              0.02
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.06)            (0.00)           (0.06)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.21              0.21
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.73)            (0.00)           (0.73)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.04              0.04
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.11)            (0.00)           (0.11)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.05)            (0.00)           (0.05)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                                               0.00
                                         ()                ()                 ()               ()             (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.27              0.27
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.95)            (0.00)           (0.95)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/23-12/3//98            4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/19-30/1999             5     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (2);
                                             LAWYER(1);ENVIRONM.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST 91)

 Supervision
              06/11-15/2001             7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                             (2); CONSULTANT (2); SR.
                                             GENDER SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              08/26-30/2002             2    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           U               U
                                             (1), TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              10/15-22/2002             4    TASK TEAM LEADER(1); SR.         S               S
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST(1);
                                             SECTOR
                                             MANAGER(1);CONSULTANT(
                                             1)
              07/8-10/2003              3    TASK TEAM LEADER(1);             U               S
                                             COUNTRY OFFICER(1;
                                             SECTOR LEADER(1))
              07/21-23/2003             3    TASK TEAM LEADER(1);             U               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST(1);
                                             COUNTRY OFFICER(1)
              09/1-5/2003               3    TASK TEAM LEADER(1);             U               S
                                             SECTOR LEADER(1);
                                             COUNTRY OFFICER(1)
              11/23-27/2003             3    TASK TEAM LEADER(1);             U               U
                                             LAWYER(1); COUNTRY
                                             OFFICER(1)
              02/16-20/2004             3    TASK TEAM LEADER(1);             U               U
                                             CONSULTANT PROJECT
                                             SPECIALIST(1); SECTOR
                                             LEADER(1)
              02/26/2004                1    TASK TEAM LEADER(1)              U               U
                03/01/2004



                                              - 24 -

               03/21-29/2004           5   TASK TEAM LEADER(1);               U    U
               05/14/2004                  CONSULTANT PROJECT
                                           SPECIALIST(1);
                                           PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST(1); SECTOR
                                           LEADER(1); FINANCIAL
                                           SPECIALIST(1)
               07/14-16/2004           2   TASK TEAM LEADER(1);               U    U
                                           CONSULTANT(1)
               08/30/2004              1   INT(1)                             U    U


 ICR
               07/16/2004             2     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             U    U
                                             SR. SOCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST; (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 32.4                           49.3
  Supervision                          63.87                        134.13
  ICR                                   5.16                           9.94
  Total                              101.43                         193.37




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports, Legal Documents, Minutes of Negotiations
Project Appraisal Document , Report No: 19867-PE January 5, 2000
Country Assistance Strategy, Last Discussion 07/22/ 97




                                            - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower´s Implementation Completion Report

                Development Project for Indigenous Peoples and Afroperuvians
                                      IBRD Loan Nº 4536 ­ PE


The Development Project for Indigenous Peoples and Afroperuvians was approved by the World
Bank in January 2000.

The financing of the Project cost an estimated US$ 6.7 million, for which the Peruvian
Government obtained a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD, World Bank) of about US$ 5.0 million, and the difference, US$ 1.7 million, was to be
financed through contributions from national counterparts of up to US$ 1.5 million and non
monetary contributions from the beneficiaries, estimated at US$ 0.2 million.

The Loan Agreement with the World Bank was signed on December 13, 2002. The objective of
the Project was to strengthen Indigenous and Afroperuvian organizations and communities so that
they would be able to design and implement development subprojects for the community, better
articulate their proposals, and utilize effectively the services offered by the state and other sectors
of civil society through the promotion of innovative methods using the "learn by doing" process.

The original design of the Project involved its implementation in five pilot areas or zones of
influence (Wari, Coastal, Quechua-Aymara, Marañón and Ucayali) with a gender sensitive
methodology and the active participation of Indigenous and Afroperuvian women's organizations.

The Project was to achieve its objectives by (a) strengthening the organizational, institutional,
technical and entrepreneurial capacity of Indigenous and Afroperuvian communities and
organizations, and participating government agencies; (b) preparing community development
subprojects based on participatory designs (development initiatives with identity) and organizing
technical proposals and the necessary pre-investment studies (project profiles); and (c)
implementing subprojects financed by donor agencies as described in the Project components:

Component 1:           Institutional strengthening for the Multisectorial Commission for
                       Indigenous Affairs and the Technical Secretariat for Indigenous Affairs,

Component 2:           Strengthening of the capacity of Indigenous and Community Organizations

Component 3:           Legal reform and technical assistance,

Component 4: Information and awareness campaign,

Component 5: Subprojects, and

Component 6: Monitoring and Evaluation.




                                                  - 29 -

The components were subject to modifications that the Borrower and the Bank could agree to
from time to time in order to achieve the objectives; it will be seen later that modifications were
made on two occasions.

The Peruvian Government and the World Bank selected the following strategy for the
Development Project for Indigenous Peoples and Afroperuvians: (a) to start with an investment of
US$ 5.00 million for the purpose of strengthening organizational, administrative, technical and
entrepreneurial capacities in order to undertake more ambitious phases of the program in the
future; (b) to support and promote the Indigenous Peoples development initiative and seek to
encourage multisectorial actions as well as coordination for the design a legal framework for
Indigenous affairs; (c) to respond to the proposals of the representatives of Indigenous Peoples
and Afroperuvians regarding the strengthening of entrepreneurial, administrative, technical and
organizational capacity for the self-development of the community using a "learn by doing"
process; (d) to recognize that LIL is the first phase of the program and the if the results are
positive, a second phase could be financed, and (e) LIL could complement the planned operation
of the project proposed for Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon,
by strengthening the organizational capacity of the Indigenous organizations involved in managing
community reserves that will be financed in the Amazon region.

The first disbursement of the loan occurred in August 2001, and the closing date for the Project
was initially set for December 31, 2002.

It can be seen that between the approval and the first disbursement more than eighteen months
transpired; this situation resulted principally from delays in fulfilling the conditions for it to
become effective, the transition to democratic government and the necessary restructuring of the
Executive; the initiation of the activities for implementing the Project was delayed considerably,
and this had a major impact on the fulfillment of the schedule stipulated in the Loan Agreement. A
critical factor was the political instability in the country after the year 2000 when the Development
Project for Indigenous Peoples and Afroperuvians was approved; there have been three
governments up to the present time.

The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) of Peru is the borrower's representative with the
World Bank. The Borrower carried out the project through the Technical Secretariat for
Indigenous Affairs (SETAI) with the guidance of the overall policy of the Multisectorial
Commission for Indigenous Affairs (CAI), which are departments of the Ministry for Women and
Human Development (PROMUDEH). This responsibility was later transferred to the Presidency
of the Council of Ministers through CONAPA. An independent budgetary Implementation Unit
was not established for executing the project; a Project team suitable to the Bank was set up to
coordinate the Project (TG Team) that became the Project implementation unit.

A clear definition of the government agency that is to take charge of implementing government
policies on the promotion, inclusion and development of Indigenous and Afroperuvian
communities resulted in the creation of several commissions and secretariats which at times
resulted in a duplication of functions and powers. Thus the project was designed and approved,
and began to be implemented under the Multisectorial Commission for Indigenous Affairs (CAI)



                                                   - 30 -

and the Technical Secretariat for Indigenous Affairs, both of which were created within the
Ministry for Women and Human Development (PROMUDEH)

CAI consisted of representatives from the public sector and Indigenous organizations to promote
better coordination between the demands of Indigenous Peoples and the services offered by
government agencies.

SETAI was the agency in charge of promoting, coordinating, supervising and evaluating policies,
plans, programs and projects with a gender focus for the development of peasant and native
communities while respecting their ethnic and cultural identity and their forms of organization;
functionally it was under the Office of the Vice Minister and was directed by a Technical
Secretary.

On October 5, 2001 the National Commission of Andean and Amazonian Peoples (CONAPA)
was established, and SETAI was designated as the Secretariat of the Commission. In 2002 SETAI
was transferred from PROMUDEH (now the Ministry of Women and Social Development ­
MIMDES) to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (PCM). In practice this meant that the
Technical Unit of the Project was transferred from PROMUDEH to PCM. During the first
quarter of 2003 the Government decided to dissolve SETAI after determining that there was
substantial overlapping between its functions and powers and those entrusted to CONAPA; later
the Technical Secretariat of CONAPA was created and its functions and powers changed when it
became known as the Executive Secretariat.

The above-mentioned changes did not allow the project to be implemented normally or the
managerial and technical staff for managing the project to be established. It should be noted that
on May 11 of this year, the Peruvian Government decided to modify the structure of CONAPA by
creating an Executive Presidency which, in practice, will carry out the functions and
responsibilities that had been performed by the Executive Secretariat of CONAPA and its
Presidency, and again established a Technical Secretariat to replace the Executive Secretariat. The
implementation of this latest change is still pending, as are the regulations for the respective law.

During the year ending December 31, 2001, preoperational activities were only carried out
between October and December, limited to the hiring a Project Coordinator and a Project
Administrator as part of the establishment of a Project Team (TG Team). They met to study the
Project and World Bank regulations and procedures, to prepare for the hiring of consultants to
complete the TG Team, and to prepare the processes for initiating the implementation of the
project during the following fiscal year (2002).

Between August 26 and September 3, 2002, a purchasing mission from the World Bank carried
out an ex post review of a sample of contracts for the purchase of consulting goods and services
that were awarded during 2001 and 2002. The scope of the mission also included a detailed
review of the evaluation of the capacity of SETAI as a purchasing agency as well as several
evaluation and clarification meetings with the administrative team of the Presidency of the Council
of Ministers, within the framework of the process for administrative transfer of the project and of
SETAI and CONAPA to that agency.



                                                - 31 -

Between October 15 and 22, 2002, a Mid Term Evaluation Mission was carried out in order to
examine (a) the progress of the project; (b) the redesign of the project; and (c) to evaluate the
proposed plan of activities for its possible extension.

The Technical Secretariat of CONAPA and the World Bank agreed on a redesign of the project
based more directly on the demands of the Indigenous Peoples and Afroperuvians that included
small investments and ensured local capacity building. It was agreed to include strategic plans for
local development, and project profiles and their execution in the proposal. They also decided to
modify the components of the Project, reducing them from six to three, and 6 zones of influence
were selected.

The Mission concluded that it would be advisable to extend the Project, based on the Peruvian
Government's interest in asking the World Bank to extend the loan from January 01, 2003 to June
30, 2004.

The changes made in its components, areas of influence and closing date as a result of the
redesign of the project would be incorporated into the administrative documents of the Project,
which would then serve as the basis for the Peruvian Government and the World Bank to sign an
amendment. All the above-mentioned modifications would take effect on January 01, 2003, and
would be taken into account when the amendment was signed, however it was never signed.

During the first half of 2003, five regional forums and their respective Administrative Committees
were established in the following areas: Aymara, Quechua South, Quechua Southeast and
Afroperuvian. In July the World Bank decided to increase the frequency of its evaluation,
supervision and monitoring missions because of the way in which the activities of the Project were
implemented and joint and participatory work began with the Project Team.

On July 22, 2003, Law Nº 28034 was published, which issued austerity measures and limited
public expenditure. It had a negative effect on the activities of the Project because it prevented
capital goods from being purchased and staff from being hired. This made it impossible to open
area offices or hire consultants to complete the basic structure of the Technical Unit of the
Project.

In August 2003, the lack of coordination among the different organizational levels of Indigenous
organizations and the way in which information on the implementation of the Project was handled
by several Indigenous organizations at the national level, lead to several complaints and demands
in the media which resulted in the World Bank recommending that the Project activities be
suspended until a meeting for "Dialog and Integration with Indigenous Organizations" could be
held. It was finally called by the President of the Council of Ministers and held in November. In
practice, the activities of the Project were to a large extent suspended or reduced.

The activities of the Project were also affected by several internal situations that should be
mentioned: (a) the lack of continuity in the administrative staff of the Executive Units exacerbated
the problem caused by a lack of knowledge of World Bank regulations, and resulted in a failure to



                                                 - 32 -

hire key consultants in a timely manner for the advancement of the Project; (b) the lines of
coordination, dependency, responsibility and communication between the Project Team (TG
Team) and the Budget Disbursement Unit were not properly defined; as a result there were no
effective integration and coordination mechanisms to ensure the efficient implementation of the
Project; (c) the Project as such never enjoyed administrative, financial or budgetary independence;
(d) inside the TG Team there was a high turnover of managerial, technical and administrative staff
which affected the progress of the Project, and created instability and lack of continuity in the
activities; and (e) it was not possible to complete the minimum TG Team structure necessary for
its operation and after July 2003, there was no Project Coordinator; this position, functions and
responsibilities were taken over by the Executive Secretariat of CONAPA.

The evaluation, supervision, monitoring and technical assistance Missions carried out by the
World Bank during the second half of 2003 involved the active participation of representatives
from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and from the Ministry of Economy and Finance
through its General Department of Public Credit and General Department of Multiannual
Programming. During a mission carried out between Nov. 23 and 27, 2003, a new change in the
Project components was discussed and agreed to, for a total of four. The Annual Operating Plan
for fiscal year 2004 took these agreements into account; however no formal approval was given.

Due to several factors that affected the implementation of the Project, the TG Team had to
redefine implementation strategies, operating plans, and technical and operational aspects on
several occasions to be able to implement the Project in a shorter time than had been originally
planned. New administrative documents had to be developed and established to speed up the
implementation.

In order for the implementation of the Project to be more effective, with clearly defined lines for
reporting to the authorities of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, and to consolidate the
operative and administrative parts of the Project under a single authority, PCM agreed with the
World Bank to create a Project Coordinating Unit and make the necessary institutional
arrangements for its early implementation. However this agreement was never implemented.

During fiscal 2004, the World Bank and the Presidency and Executive Secretariat of CONAPA,
with the participation of the Project Technical Team and personnel from the Executive
Secretariat, made considerable efforts to extend the closing date of the project to December 31,
2005. The mission carried out between February 16 and 20, 2004, studied three possible scenarios
to guide the decision making that could fulfill the objectives of the Project despite the existing
delays. That mission was also an opportunity for the Peruvian Government to confirm its desire to
continue the implementation of the Project in such a way that the stated objectives of the
restructuring could be achieved. It was decided to request an extension of the closing date of the
Project to December 31, 2005. The Bank Directors that were present during the mission
supported that decision. It was also determined that it would be necessary to hire a consultant to
reformulate the Project to ensure its viability under the National System of Public Investment
(SNIP) and fulfill the requirements of the "Law of Indebtedness for Fiscal 2004." This was an
essential requirement for the Ministry of Economy and Finance to be able to ask the Bank for an
extension of the closing date of the Project.



                                                 - 33 -

It should be mentioned that between September 2003 and May 2004, the Presidency of the
Council of Ministers made direct commitments regarding the implementation of the Project, such
as (a) defining the mechanisms for channeling funds to subprojects and institutions that could be
in charge of implementing the investment component; (b) requesting an extension of the closing
date of the project to December 2005; (c) taking the necessary actions for auditing the financial
statements of the project for the fiscal years 2003 and 2004; and (d) hiring a specialist to
reformulate the PDPIA to ensure its viability under the National System of Public Investment
(SNIP). These commitments were not fulfilled.

In early April 2004, a serious campaign of journalistic accusations was launched regarding the
supposed neglect of the needs of the target population and irregularities in the management of the
Project, which resulted in a series of requests for information and the initiation of several
investigative processes, as well as special investigations that were ordered by the General
Comptrollership of the Republic, the Inspection and Comptrollership Commission of Congress,
the Congressional Commission for Amazonian, Indigenous and Afroperuvian Affairs, and the
Attorney General's Office, among others. This situation overwhelmed and saturated the response
capabilities and attention of the Technical Team of the Project, which had to dedicate itself almost
exclusively to responding to the different investigations. The above-described situation coincided
with the initiation of the Audit of the Financial Statements of the Project for fiscal years 2001 and
2002. In a departure from the norm, this analysis was performed by the General Comptrollership
of the Republic (an Agency of Government Control) rather than an External Auditing Firm, which
is usually required by World Bank regulations. At the time this report was prepared and more than
five months after initiating the Audit of the Financial Statements of the Project for fiscal years
2001 and 2002, the General Comptrollership of the Republic has not informed the Presidency of
the Council of Ministers, the Executive Presidency of CONAPA or the Development Project for
Indigenous and Afroperuvian Peoples about the results of that analysis. No reasons have been
given as to the causes of this unusual delay.

During May 2004, a World Bank purchasing mission carried out an ex post review of a sample of
contracts for the purchase of consulting goods and services contracts awarded during 2002, 2003
and 2004. No information has been received on its outcome.

Other Bank missions, such as those carried out between March 24 and 29, and on May 14, 2004,
reviewed the progress of the established work plan and its respective implementation schedule, so
that the amendment to the Loan Agreement could be processed. However, the progress achieved
was minimal. The following had not been achieved to the satisfaction of the World Bank: (a)
submission of properly audited financial statements of the project for fiscal years 2001 and 2002;
(b) definition of agencies for channeling development initiatives; (c) definition of institutional
arrangements by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers; and (d) reformulation of the project
to ensure its viability under SNIP.

In early June 2004, the Directors of the World Bank informed the Government of Peru that the
closing date of the project set for June 30, 2004 was firm, and any possibility of an extension was
eliminated.



                                                - 34 -

The World Bank loan to the Peruvian Government of US$ 5.0 million will be repaid by means of
semiannual installments beginning on July 15, 2005 and ending on January 15, 2017, as follows:

 Payment Date                                   Amortization of the Principal
                                                (Expressed in United States Dollars)
 Every January 15 and July 15
From July 15, 2005 through July 15, 2016        210,000
 January 15, 2017                               170,000

Interest and other financial costs will also be paid by the Peruvian Government, with the exception
of an amount equivalent to one percent (1%) of the amount of the loan, which has already been
charged by the World Bank. On behalf of the Borrower, it deducted the amount of US$ 0.05
million dollars from the Loan Account, as shown in the Financial Statements of the Project.

The interest and other financial costs are based on:

1.      A commitment charge of three quarters of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
        capital amount of the Loan not withdrawn periodically.

2.      Interest on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and unamortized periodically, at a
        rate equivalent to the LIBOR Base Rate plus the LIBOR Total Margin for each interest
        period.
        Since June 30, 2004 was confirmed as the closing date of the Project, the net amount of
the loan (disbursements made), the new installments for        amortizing the principal, and
probably a new schedule of payments must be specified.




                                                 - 35 -

- 36 -

