                                                                   Report No. 50679

       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                International Development Association

                                                               INSP/49504-AL




     MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                    IN RESPONSE TO THE

      INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                           ALBANIA:



POWER SECTOR GENERATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT

                   (IDA Credit No. 3872-ALB)




                       September 18, 2009




                                 i
          MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
  IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
                           OF THE
    ALBANIA: POWER SECTOR GENERATION AND RESTRUCTURING
                PROJECT (IDA Credit No. 3872-ALB)

1.     Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel
(IBRD Resolution 93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by
Executive Directors is Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the
findings set out in the Investigation Report No. 49504-AL dated August 7, 2009, of the
Inspection Panel on the captioned Project (Albania: Power Sector Generation and
Restructuring Project (IDA Credit No. 3872-ALB)).




                                          ii
                MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                           IN RESPONSE TO THE
            INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 49504-AL

                             ALBANIA:
        POWER SECTOR GENERATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                       (IDA Credit No. 3872-ALB)




                                                          CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................ iv
List of Operational Policies and Operational Manual Statements ...................................... v 
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................... vi 
I.      Introduction ............................................................................................................. 1 
II.     Project Context and Status ...................................................................................... 1 
            Context .............................................................................................................. 1 
            The Project ........................................................................................................ 3 
            Project Status .................................................................................................... 5 
III.    Key Issues ............................................................................................................... 6 
            Environmental Compliance .............................................................................. 6 
            Compliance with Social and Cultural Policies................................................ 16 
            Social Assessment ........................................................................................... 16 
            Consultation, Participation and Disclosure ..................................................... 18 
IV.  Management's Action Plan in Response to the Findings ..................................... 23 
V.      Conclusion ............................................................................................................ 25 


Boxes
Box 1:                Response to Panel's Comments on "Threat of Suspension"
Box 2:                Updated Atmospheric Emissions Modeling
Box 3:                The TPP Site
Annexes
Annex 1:              Findings, Comments, and Actions
Annex 2:              Air Emissions Modeling (KESH Environmental Progress Report Update,
                      August 2009, Section 3 on Air Quality)
Annex 3:              Photographs

Maps
Map 1.                IBRD 37154, Albania Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project,
                      Vlora Project Area


                                                                iii
Albania



                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP         Bank Procedures
CCGT       Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
EA         Environmental Assessment
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA        Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE      ECA Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
ECSSD      ECA Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB        European Investment Bank
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
EMU        Environmental Management Unit
EPC        Engineering, Procurement and Construction
EU         European Union
EU-CARDS   EU Programme for Community Assistance for Reconstruction, Development and
           Stabilization
EUR        Euro
GWh        Gigawatt hour
IDA        International Development Association
IDF        Institutional Development Fund
IFI        International Financial Institutions
IPN        Inspection Panel
IPPC       EU Directive on Integrated Pollution and Prevention and Control
KESH       Korporata Electroenergjikite Shqiptare (Albanian Power Corporation)
kWh        Kilowatt hour
MW         Megawatt
NGO        Nongovernmental organization
OMS        Operational Manual Statement
OP         Operational Policy
OPN        Operational Policy Note
PID        Project Information Document
TPP        Thermal electric power plant
UCTE       Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity
UN ECE     United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
USD        United States Dollar
USTDA      United States Trade and Development Agency


                                     Currency Unit
                               (as of September 16, 2009)

                       1 ALL = USD 0.0107 / USD 1 = 93.14 ALL
                           1 EUR = USD 1.46 / USD 1 = 0.68




                                           iv
                                         Management Report and Recommendation




LIST OF OPERATIONAL POLICIES AND OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS

 OMS 2.20          Project Appraisal
 OP/BP 4.01        Environmental Assessment
 OP/BP 4.04        Natural Habitats
 OP/BP 10.04       Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
 OPN 11.03         Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed
                   Projects
 OP/BP 13.05       Project Supervision




                                v
Albania




                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Background

1.      Albania's economic development has been adversely impacted by shortages in
electricity supply. This has consistently been highlighted as a major impediment to
business. Albania's electricity needs, furthermore, are supplied almost solely by
hydropower, which suffers during drought. The electricity crisis has had multiple impacts
on the life of Albanians. Firstly, frequent and prolonged electricity load shedding (power
cuts) deprives people of light, space heating, refrigeration, and cooking fuel, thereby
adversely affecting their quality of life and their health, as well as restricting their access
to education. Secondly, expensive electricity imports increase the need for government
subsidies, diverting resources from poverty reduction efforts. Thirdly, the crisis adversely
affects economic growth, impeding efforts to reduce poverty. With the climate in Albania
projected to be significantly warmer and drier in the coming decades, hydropower will
likely face further constraints.

2.      The Project will use Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) technology for power
generation, which achieves significantly higher efficiency than other options for thermal
power generation and produces very low air emissions. In the short to medium term, the
plant will be fueled by distillate fuel oil. The fuel specifications for the plant provide for
low sulfur content of distillate fuel in order to reduce emissions, even though this will add
to the operational cost. The TPP is designed to allow conversion to even cleaner natural
gas if and when it is imported to Albania.

3.      As a result, in early 2002, in response to a request from the Government, the Bank
agreed to pursue efforts to secure International Financial Institution investment support in
a new thermal power plant. Project preparation for a 100 MW power plant at a site in an
industrial zone near Vlora1, selected by the Government following a siting study that
addressed six alternatives, commenced in January 2003. The Project was approved by the
Board in April 2004 and became effective in January 2005. The World Bank is providing
an IDA Credit of USD25 million, or just over 20 percent of the USD123.3 million total
cost of the Project. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
European Investment Bank are each providing around 44 percent of total financing with
the balance provided by the Government of Albania. Civil works for the Project started in
August 2007, and the plant is now in the final stages of commissioning, with operational
performance expected to commence before the end of 2009.

Issues Before the Inspection Panel

4.     In May 2007 the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection concerning
the Albania Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project that was submitted by the
Civic Alliance for the Protection of the Bay of Vlora on behalf of local residents living in
Vlora. The Requesters argued that the project would "...destroy environment, tourism,

1
 Following the approach in the Investigation Report, the name Vlora (used in this report) is also frequently
spelled Vlore and Vlorë. The three spellings are all interchangeable and do not signify practical difference.

                                                     vi
                                                         Management Report and Recommendation




safe fisheries, natural habitat, ecosystem, coral colonies as well as the unique historical
and cultural significance of the entire Vlora Bay and Narta Lagoon." The Requesters
expressed a number of concerns regarding the Bank's compliance with its Operational
Policies. Management responded to the claims in the Request on June 1, 2007. In its
Report to the Board thereafter, the Panel found the Request eligible and recommended
that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation. This was authorized on July 18,
2007, and on August 7, 2009 the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of the
investigation.

5.      Management appreciates the Panel's clear and thorough presentation of its
findings. Management particularly appreciates that the Panel has concluded that the plant
will not exceed applicable air emission and cooling water discharge limits; will not
adversely affect the nearby Narta Lagoon; and has not resulted in damage or destruction
of any cultural heritage or critical natural habitats. Management also appreciates the
Panel's confirmation that the appropriate technical solution has been selected. In this
context, Management believes the Government of Albania is to be commended for
selecting the most environmentally acceptable of the technical options for a thermal
plant, incorporating efficient generation technology with projected emissions well below
European Union standards.

6.      Management fully concurs with the Panel's conclusion that the major remaining
risk associated with the plant relates to possible oil spills from delivery of diesel oil to the
plant, but clarifies in the report that this is being fully addressed. Management also
acknowledges concerns by the Panel regarding the consultation process employed by the
Government of Albania on the plant and other investments in the Vlora area, which
resulted in a negative finding against Albania by the Compliance Committee of the
Aarhus Convention. The Bank is not a party to the Convention, but such deficiencies in
access to information in Government decision making do have implications for the
effectiveness of Bank Operational Policy implementation. As a result of the Aarhus
Committee's judgment, the Bank and other International Financial Institutions recognize
that further guidelines and training for staff are needed. The Bank has consulted with the
Compliance Committee in this regard, and Albania is implementing its action plan to
improve Aarhus Convention compliance, which is partially supported with Bank funding.

7.      The Panel has raised a number of concerns about the quality of project
preparation, in particular the environmental assessment (EA) process. One concern is the
use by the Government of Albania of the same international consultants for EA as for the
feasibility/siting studies. Management agrees with the Panel that it is desirable to have
engineering support separate from EA support, and this is the norm in the majority of
Category A Bank projects. In the case of this project, the Bank's alternative approach was
used, whereby an independent firm with experience in the sector, but no links to the firm
preparing the EA was selected to review documents and provide recommendations for
quality assurance. The recommendations from the independent reviewer were taken into
account to bolster the final EA.

8.      A second concern was the Bank's focus on project-specific issues following site
selection, without expanding attention to broader sectoral and strategic development


                                               vii
Albania


questions. Management believes a sectoral or strategic EA approach was not required to
conform to Bank policy, especially given the lack of financial or economic linkages and
the unconfirmed nature of such investments. Management acknowledges that coverage in
the EA on the impacts from additional units at the plant site (to a maximum of 300 MW)
was unclear. Management clarifies that while the initial feasibility and siting studies
carried out by the Government of Albania did examine this build-out option, the Bank
and its co-financiers considered that the financial likelihood of additional units in the near
to mid-term to be very low. Management notes this position is still valid nearly eight
years later. Management notes nevertheless, that updated environmental analyses show
that European Union air and thermal water standards still would be met for the 300 MW
scenario. Management provides its perspective in the Report on these and other points;
acknowledging some deficiencies in EA, consultation and social risk analysis.

9.      The Panel, however, also recognizes that the plant has now been constructed and
the focus on the facility should be directed to its future operation. Management agrees
with the Panel regarding two areas for consideration. One relates to the risk of oil spills
and this is directly addressed in Management's proposed action plan. The second relates
to the overall process of planning for the Vlora Bay. With regard to this issue, the Bank,
along with other donors, has worked closely with the Government on development of a
Territorial Planning Law and this now sets the basis to ensure that appropriate
evaluations will be undertaken throughout the country in the future.

Going Forward

10.     Management will continue to engage the Government of Albania on
improvements in territorial planning. Management, furthermore, is proposing an action
plan that includes the following components:

   Focusing efforts to ensure that an Oil Spill Prevention and Response Plan is fully in
   place before the plant begins operations;

   Ensuring that state-of-the-art environmental monitoring continues at the plant, and
   information is shared with civil society;

   Assisting the Government of Albania (through an Institutional Development Fund
   grant) strengthen its capacity to comply with the Aarhus Convention regarding access
   to information in decision making that relates to the environment;

   Delivering an internal training module to ensure Bank staff are fully cognizant of
   ways to assist partner governments in meeting their international treaty obligations,
   especially with the Aarhus and other relevant conventions;

   Working with KESH, the Albanian electricity authority, on development of outreach
   programs to civil society; and

   Consistent with commitments previously made in the context of the Panel's Report on
   the Albania Integrated Coastal Zone Management and Clean-Up Project,
   strengthening internal capacity to deal effectively with social risk issues.


                                             viii
                               I.      INTRODUCTION

1.      On May 2, 2007, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ07/03 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Albania: Power
Sector Generation and Restructuring Project (Credit No. 3872-ALB) financed by the
International Development Association (IDA). The Request for Inspection was submitted
by the "Civic Alliance for the Protection of the Bay of Vlora on behalf of local residents
living in Vlora" (hereafter referred to as the "Requesters").

2.      The Executive Directors and the President of IDA were notified by the Panel of
receipt of the Request. Management responded to the claims in the Request on June 1,
2007. In its Report to the Board, the Panel found the Request eligible and recommended
that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation. The investigation was authorized
by the Executive Directors on July 18, 2007.

3.      On August 7, 2009, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of the
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel's clear and thorough presentation of its
findings. This report, responding to the findings of the Panel, is organized in four
sections. Section II provides background information on the Project. Section III discusses
key issues and Section IV presents Management's Action Plan in response to the Panel's
findings. Section V contains the conclusion. The Panel's findings, along with the
Management's responses, are described in detail in Annex 1; Annex 2 provides
information on air emissions modeling; photographs of the Project site and surroundings
are included in Annex 3.


                     II.    PROJECT CONTEXT AND STATUS

CONTEXT

4.       Albania suffered from serious electricity shortages from the summer of 2000
through the fall of 2008. This was due to rapid growth in electricity demand and impacts
from adverse hydrology on Albania's predominantly (95 percent) hydropower-based
system. A net exporter of electricity until 1997, Albania has since had to import
significant quantities of electricity (from 300 GWh in 1998 to 2,700 GWh in 2007 and
2,300 GWh in 2008). Improved hydrological conditions during 2003­2005 and in 2009
resulted in reduced electricity imports and power disruptions but, in the absence of new
thermal generation capacity, the vulnerability of Albania's economy to adverse
hydrology has continued to increase. At the end of 2006 and throughout most of 2007 and
the first half of 2008 the country suffered from significant power supply disruptions.

5.      The electricity crisis has had multiple impacts on the life of Albanians. Firstly,
frequent and prolonged electricity load shedding (power cuts) deprives people of light,
space heating, refrigeration, and cooking fuel, thereby adversely affecting their quality of
life and their health, as well as restricting their access to education. Secondly, expensive
electricity imports increase the need for government subsidies, diverting resources from

                                             1
Albania


poverty reduction efforts. Thirdly, it adversely affects economic growth, impeding efforts
to reduce poverty. Most of the supply disruptions in Albania affect disproportionately
rural and poor areas of the country.

6.      The electricity crisis has affected economic performance in a number of ways. A
fall in hydropower production is the direct cause of a fall in national output. Electricity
imports contribute to a widening of Albania's trade deficit. Load shedding leads to cuts in
industrial production, and requires industrial and commercial enterprises to install costly
back-up diesel-fueled power generators. In the most recent Investment Climate
Assessment survey of 2008, electricity problems were highlighted as one of the two top
concerns by businesses of all sizes and types.1 Widespread electricity supply disruptions
over a number of years have prompted businesses and households to invest in power
generators that are expensive to operate and maintain, while their extensive use during
blackouts contributes heavily to local air pollution and noise.

7.      Albania's electricity needs are supplied almost solely by hydropower, which is
subject to considerable variability since it is dependent on rainfall. The installed capacity
is 1,450 MW, and the average generation in a normal hydrological year is about 4,200
GWh, compared to current demand of about 6,800 GWh. The Drin River cascade, with a
total installed capacity of 1,350 MW, provides about 90 percent of the country's
electricity generation. The remaining 100 MW of hydropower capacity comes from small
plants on other rivers. The problems stemming from excessive dependence on
hydropower from a single river are further exacerbated by the fact that the power
generation facilities are concentrated in the north of the country, whereas the major load
centers are in the center and the south. Since the climate is projected to be significantly
warmer and drier in Albania by the middle of this century, hydropower will likely face
further constraints.

8.      Domestic thermal generation capacity is needed to reduce dependence on imports,
diversify domestic generation and promote a more efficient use of existing hydroelectric
capacity. A Bank-financed review of electricity supply and demand in Southeast Europe
(2002-2012)2 concluded that the absence of new generating capacity could lead to
shortages, with the price of electricity imports to deficit countries in the region possibly
equaling or exceeding the full cost of power from new plants. Additional domestic
generation capacity for Albania would reduce excessive dependence on imports and
thereby lessen vulnerability to supply disruptions and price increases. Shortages have
already begun to appear in the region and the price of electricity imports has increased
significantly (the average import price rose from 4.4 Lek/kWh in 2004 to 9.1 Lek/kWh in
2007 and 2008). Albania, especially during dry years, is facing considerable difficulties
in obtaining sufficient imported electricity.




1
    Building Competitiveness in Albania, World Bank Report No. 47866-AL, forthcoming.
2
    "Review of Electricity Supply and Demand in South East Europe," World Bank, ECSIE, 2003.


                                                    2
                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


THE PROJECT

9.      To address the power sector crisis, the Government developed an Action Plan in
late 2000. The Government also adopted a Power Sector Policy Statement in April 2002,
setting out the sector reforms to be implemented, and a National Energy Strategy in June
2003, identifying priority investments, financing needs and required reforms for the
energy sector. In line with the strategy contained in these documents, the Government
made efforts to find financing for new power plants to address the increasing electricity
shortage. Various studies commissioned by the Government clearly identified that
addition of domestic thermal generation capacity was needed. The addition of thermal
capacity would improve the security of electricity supply and thereby facilitate Albania's
reconnection with the European network.

10.     In January 2002, the Government of Albania met with the World Bank Country
Director and asked the Bank to assist in arranging donor financing for a new thermal
electric power plant (TPP). As the World Bank had a limited financing envelope for
Albania under its IDA allocation, the Bank initiated discussions with the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) regarding co-financing of a TPP, and informed the Government that the three
International Financial Institutions (IFIs) were prepared to assist it in adding critically-
needed thermal generation capacity (about 100 MW nominal capacity). An
internationally recognized consulting firm (already retained by the Government of
Albania in 2001) prepared a siting and feasibility study of the proposed Project, with
financing from the United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) in 2002. It
also prepared a Project Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in 2003. Project
appraisal commenced in November 2003.

11.     The Vlora TPP is the first new generation plant in Albania in more than 20 years.
A contract was awarded for this small TPP of 97 MW capacity in January 2007. The
plant is expected to provide about 680 GWh per year (at an availability of about 80
percent). When commissioned, it is estimated to cover about 20 percent of the supply
deficit in an average hydrological year. Construction of a thermal plant in the southern
part of the country will reduce technical losses and significantly improve the security and
quality of supply in the country overall and in particular in the south, which is poorly
served at present.

12.    The Project consists of:

       (i)     A Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) power station fueled by very
               low sulfur content distillate oil at a six-hectare site about six kilometers
               north of Vlora adjacent to an old offshore oil tanker terminal; and
       (ii)    Technical assistance for:
               - bid evaluation, contract administration and supervision of Project
                   implementation;
               - formation of a subsidiary company of the Albanian Power
                   Corporation (KESH) to own and operate the plant, preparation of a



                                             3
Albania


                      power purchase agreement, and assistance in procuring the services of
                      an operator for an initial period;
                  -   follow-up studies required by the Environmental Management Plan
                      (EMP);
                  -   examination of the option of soliciting bids to supply fuel to the plant;
                  -   power sector reforms;
                  -   consumer satisfaction surveys;
                  -   improvements in inventory control; and
                  -   training in procurement and environmental management.

13.     The Project will use CCGT technology for power generation. This technology
achieves significantly higher efficiency than other options for thermal power generation
and produces very low air emissions. CCGT technology is used primarily with natural
gas as a fuel but, in the absence of natural gas in Albania in the short to medium term, the
plant will be fueled by distillate fuel oil. The fuel specifications for the plant provide for
low sulfur content of distillate fuel in order to reduce emissions, even though this will add
to the operational cost. "Fuel sulfur content will be monitored to ensure that it is less
than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight. Sampling and analysis should be performed on
each delivery received."3 The TPP is designed to allow conversion to natural gas if and
when it is imported to Albania.

14.     The total amount of financing for the contract of the TPP is currently expected to
be EUR92 million (approximately USD123.3 million). Based on the awarded
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract the cost of the power station
Project includes: (i) an offshore oil tanker terminal; (ii) an undersea pipeline; and (iii)
fuel storage facilities. It also includes USD4.4 million for a connection to the Albanian
transmission system at the Babica 220/110 kV substation located seven kilometers away.
The total Project cost also incorporates USD4.85 million for technical assistance and
training. The power station will be owned and operated by a separate corporatized
enterprise, with all of its shares held by KESH. There will be a power purchase
agreement between the company and KESH, with a guaranteed take-or-pay arrangement
for a limited period.

15.    Financing for the Project is being provided through an IDA Credit of USD25
million equivalent and loans of EUR40 million each (approximately USD54 million)
from EIB and EBRD. The three IFIs are providing joint financing, rather than parallel
financing, since there is a single supply and install contract (EPC) for the TPP.

16.     The Project benefits consist of: (i) increased electricity supply from the new
power station that will contribute to an improved balance between hydropower and
thermal power; (ii) avoided costs of transmission lines and capacitors to improve
electricity service in southern Albania; (iii) lower transmission losses since the plant will
be located near demand centers in southern Albania where there is currently a supply

3
  From the EMP, which forms the Annex to Contract document (h), Annex 5. Refer to table 8.4, page 21.
Use of this low sulfur fuel would be in line with EC directive 1999/32/EC which will require distillate fuels
to reduce sulfur content to 0.1% sulfur from January 1, 2008.


                                                     4
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


shortage; (iv) potential for fulfillment of the condition to connect with the UCTE4
system; (v) less load shedding resulting from reductions in non-technical power losses
and improved collections, since both lead to lower demand and improve the ability of
KESH to pay for imported electricity; (vi) improved power sector financial performance
resulting from reductions in transmission and distribution losses, and (vii)
implementation by the Government of a clearly defined power sector reform strategy. In
addition, increased electricity availability should help to support the growth of tourism in
the Vlora area as well as further south.

17.    KESH has been managing Project implementation, with a Project Management
Unit that had experience with previous power sector projects with the Bank in Albania.

PROJECT STATUS

18.     The Project was approved by the World Bank's Board on March 16, 2004. The
legal documents were signed on April 6, 2004 and the Project became effective on
January 25, 2005. The initial procurement process, however, was subject to considerable
delay, first because of the time needed to receive final confirmation from the Government
that the Project should go ahead (see Box 1 below) and second because of the complexity
of the evaluation process, given the need to compare bids for different size units and
incorporate the impact of the proposed maintenance contract component. As a result, the
EPC contract was only signed on February 9, 2007 and became effective on May 5, 2007.
Engineering design of the facility started immediately after EPC contract effectiveness,
while civil works on the Project site started in August 2007.

              Box 1: Response to Panel's Comments on "Threat of Suspension"
Management notes the Panel's discussion on the change of Government in 2005 and
Management's letters to the Government in April and May 2006, in which the Bank requested
confirmation from the new Government of Albania that it agreed with continuation of the Power
Sector Generation and Restructuring Project.
Management would like to reiterate that when the Government in Albania changed, following
elections in June 2005, the Bank gave time for the new authorities to review the project,
recognizing that it had been the subject of political debate and campaigning before the June 2005
elections. Indeed, an ad-hoc committee established by the new Government carried out two
meetings in Tirana (October 2005) and a third meeting in Vlora (November 2005) to review the
project.
However, by April 2006, the Government's intentions remained unclear. Management then had to
decide how to proceed with a Project that had been inactive effectively for 25 months after Board
approval and 15 months after effectiveness. Considering the significant delays in implementation
and the amount of valuable IDA resources that were committed in a non-advancing Project,
Management believes that it was appropriate to request at that time a clear commitment from the
Government to either continue or cancel the Project.



4
 Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity. Note that as of July 1, 2009 the European
Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) has taken over operational tasks of
all existing transmission operators in Europe, including the UCTE.


                                                   5
Albania


19.      Progress on the EPC Contract has faced some delays and while the TPP was
initially planned to become fully operational in June 2009, it is currently expected to be
transferred to KESH for regular operations in early November of this year. As of
September 4, 2009, about 95 percent of the civil works have been completed and the TPP
is in its commissioning phase. The Project is 84 percent disbursed, while the remaining
undisbursed funds are fully committed. The Project's current closing date is December
31, 2009; however, depending on the actual progress of the EPC Contract, an extension
of the closing date of a few more months may be required.

20.    Regular supervision missions were carried out by the Project team5 after the
approval of the Project by the World Bank's Board. Project supervision during
construction of the Vlora TPP involved regular site presence by the Project team, while
Regional Management for Europe and Central Asia (ECA) -- Vice President, Country
Director, Strategy and Operations Director, and Sector Director (ECSSD) -- has visited
the construction site during various missions to the country.

21.    The most important development regarding the electricity sector in Albania has
been the successful privatization of the electricity distribution company in June 2009.
Both the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the World Bank have been
involved in this transaction, with the IFC providing advisory services to the Government
and the Bank a Partial Risk Guarantee. The Vlora TPP has contributed to this successful
reform by addressing investor concerns regarding the availability of enough electricity
supply in the country.


                                        III.     KEY ISSUES

22.     The Investigation Report outlines the Panel's findings in an executive summary,
detailed narrative, and matrix, with the latter organized along nineteen major issues under
four themes. Management's findings, comments and actions are arrayed alongside these
same issues in Annex 1 of this report. The following Key Issues section presents
additional background information and context for each of the four themes and is
consistent with Annex 1.

Environmental Compliance

23.     Projected Risks to Human Health and the Environment from the TPP.
Management is pleased to note the concurrence by the Inspection Panel regarding the
expected compliance of the operating TPP with applicable air emission and cooling water
discharge limits. Management wishes to take note of the Panel's finding (pages xvi-xvii)
that "atmospheric emissions from the Vlora TPP do not pose a significant harm to either
the human population of Vlora or the flora and fauna of the Narta Lagoon." Also, "The
localized rise in water temperature from the TPP cooling water discharge...is far below
the maximum allowable standard..." Revised projected air emissions are expected to be
well within EU standards for the three principal air quality parameters (nitrogen dioxide,
sulfur dioxide, and particulate matter) as noted in Box 2. As will be discussed below,
5
    See Implementation Status Reports from 9/29/2004.


                                                    6
                                                           Management Report and Recommendation


Management agrees that a remaining concern is offshore oil spills, but believes that
significant progress has been made on this issue. Further assurance of such progress is a
key element of the Action Plan. Management also agrees that continued air and water
monitoring is essential for ensuring the plant meets its strict design standards. The plant
includes continuous stack emissions monitoring as part of its operational procedures.
Results are required to be submitted to environmental officials, and plans are being put in
place to share the information with civil society.

                       Box 2: Updated Atmospheric Emissions Modeling
KESH's Environmental Consultant ­using meteorological and air monitoring data collected by
KESH in the Vlora region close to the Project site--calculated expected values of atmospheric
emissions from the power plant operations. The results and their comparisons with EU standards
are included in Annex 2 (Air Emissions Modeling).
In summary, there is no case where emissions exceed 17 percent of EU allowable standards,
while in many cases emissions are expected to be below 10 percent of those standards. Even
when the background air quality recorded by KESH in the vicinity of the Vlora plant is added to
the worst case predictions of the model, the EU ambient air quality guidelines would not come
close to being exceeded.
Modeling of the option with three CCGT units (approximately 300 MW) again shows that the
plant would operate within the requirements of the EU Air Quality Directive even when the worst
case maximum background concentrations recorded by KESH are added to the model predictions.
It was concluded that neither the operation of the single CCGT nor that of a 3 unit plant would by
itself cause a violation of the relevant EU guidelines, even at the locations where values are
highest (largely uninhabited mountains to the northeast of the site).
Source: KESH Environmental Report Update, October 2008 and August 2009



24.     Environmental Assessment and Consideration of Site Alternatives. Management
acknowledges the Inspection Panel's finding that the Government of Albania selected the
site for the TPP (and associated investments) in 2002, before the detailed Environmental
Assessment for the Project commenced in 2003. While the Investigation Report finds
deficiencies in this approach regarding OP 4.01 compliance, Management believes the
Bank's engagement during this stage before Concept Review conformed to Bank policy
and acceptable practice. As the Bank had been a partner with the Government of Albania
on energy issues for several years, during 2002 the Bank did provide advice to the
Government of Albania (and its consultants) on an informal basis as a potential financier
of the TPP. The Bank was aware of the preference of the Government of Albania for a
TPP site in Vlora, as well as the work of the international consultants preparing the
feasibility and siting studies. As part of due diligence, the Bank urged the Government of
Albania to consider other alternative TPP sites besides Vlora. This recommendation was
accepted, as reflected in the consultant Terms of Reference in April 2002, and was
followed thereafter in the siting study, which was finalized on October 21, 2002.

25.    During the August 2002 Project Identification Mission, Bank staff provided
comments on the preliminary draft siting and feasibility studies regarding technical,
environmental, economic and financial aspects. The team visited the Vlora site and noted


                                                7
Albania


some environmental issues that would need to be addressed in the eventual Project EIA,
including potential impacts on the Narta Lagoon and establishment of baseline air and
water quality data. During the mission, the Government was informed that the Project
EIA process would start once the site was selected and noted the two-stage period of
consultations on the EIA. Previous interactions with EBRD raised the likely Category A
rating for the TPP Project, which was confirmed internally in the Bank in October 2002.

26.    The Bank formally started preparing the Project with the issuance of the Project
Information Document (PID) on January 2, 2003 and internal Concept Review meeting
on January 10, 2003. The first Project Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet was posted in the
InfoShop on February 20, 2003, confirming the Category A EA rating.

27.     The Concept Review meeting came after the Vlora Council of Territorial
Adjustment approval of the Vlora B site on December 21, 2002 and immediately before
the Albania Council of Territorial Adjustment approval on February 19, 2003 of the
highest ranked site (Vlora B) emerging from the feasibility/siting stage. While actions by
the Government of Albania during its site selection process were not in themselves
subject to OP 4.01, the Bank believed that the multiple-criteria approach utilized by the
international consultants for seven alternative sites6 was good practice. The Bank
thoroughly reviewed the consultants' report concerning these multiple sites and
considered the recommendation of Vlora B to be technically sound. The Bank was aware
of the public meeting (held on October 31, 2002) that followed the release of the final
siting study, but as noted later in this report, the Bank recognizes that earlier consultation
with potentially affected communities would have been desirable.

28.    The Bank's due diligence confirmed that the Vlora B site merited the highest
ranking and that a Project EIA to investigate its full suitability could commence.
Management emphasizes that the EIA thereafter was not to simply endorse the Vlora B
site but to assess risks, determine mitigating measures and ensure that Bank policy
requirements were met. Subsequently, the results of the siting study (including
environmental screening) were included in the required section on alternatives in the
EIA, as required under OP 4.01 for a Category A project. Management believes that the
Project EIA disclosure and consultation which followed provided significant
improvements on Albania's previous procedures.

29.     Environmental Assessment Instruments and Their Applicability to the Project.
Following on the above points, Management acknowledges that the Project EIA focused
on the risks and mitigating measures for a TPP at the highest ranked site near Vlora.
Management wishes to clarify its position regarding other EA instruments which in the
Panel's view may be needed for OP 4.01 compliance, given the statement in the
Investigation Report regarding"...the omission of a cumulative impact analysis of the
thermal plant together with its ancillary equipment (such as the oil terminal in the midst




6
 The seven sites were Durres, Elbasan, Fier, Korca, Shengjin, Vlora A (contaminated former soda factory)
and Vlora B ("greenfield" site eventually selected).


                                                   8
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


of the Bay's waters) and with follow-up investments already contemplated by the
borrowing Government or other investors in the area around the TPP."7

30.     Project EIA. Management notes that the Project EIA includes the Final
Environmental Assessment report and EIA Addendum (including an EMP) for the 100
MW8 TPP and associated investments (cooling water intake and discharge; oil supply
line; and power transmission line) financed by the Project9. The single TPP remained the
sole infrastructure investment subject to Bank appraisal and covered by the IDA credit.
The Project EIA was approved at the Decision Meeting as meeting OP 4.01 Category A
requirements for the TPP, which the Government of Albania agreed to implement. Risks
from key associated investments, in particular the oil supply pipeline, were taken into
account in Project implementation, as discussed below. Each of the three successive
Project EIA documents (Draft, Final and Addendum) reflected consultation inside and
outside the Bank in an iterative fashion to strengthen the analysis of whether the Vlora
site was suitable to meet Bank, other IFI and Albanian requirements. The iterative
approach extended to the EMP, which was included in the Project EIA and thereafter
strengthened and augmented in the EPC contract and facility design.

31.     Cumulative Impacts. Management acknowledges that the Project EIA ought to
have been clearer with regard to coverage of the potential cumulative impacts of two
generation units in addition to the one unit co-financed by the Bank (thereby expanding
the Vlora TPP to the maximum 300 MW that could be accommodated at the site).
Management clarifies that while the initial feasibility and siting studies carried out by the
Government of Albania did examine both the 100 MW and the 300 MW options, the
Bank and its co-financiers considered the financial likelihood of additional units in the
near to mid-term to be very low. Management notes this position is still valid nearly eight
years later.

32.    Despite the stated focus on only one unit, initial calculations of air and water
emissions from a 300 MW facility were carried out during the EIA. Management
acknowledges, however, that the presentation of cumulative impact data on air and water
was not clearly highlighted in the final Project EIA, which contributed to confusion.10
Management notes that updated calculations of air emissions from a 300 MW unit have
been provided by the KESH environmental consultants based on ambient air quality
measurements taken before civil works commenced. These calculations suggest that for a
300 MW facility, all key air parameters (particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and sulfur
dioxide) would be within allowable limits relative to the applicable EU or World Bank
guidelines (see Box 2 above). Thermal impacts on Vlora Bay from the cooling water


7
  Investigation Report, page xxxv, bottom.
8
  The Project EA references a plant of between 90 and 130 MW, which was fitting given the EPC approach,
but for ease of presentation the 100 MW designation is used in this Report.
9
  Available on the World Bank external web page for Albania
(http://web.worldbank.org/external/projects/main?pagePK=51351038&piPK=51351152&theSitePK=40941
&projid=P077526).
10
   The "scaled-up" calculations for a 300 MW unit that were included in the Draft were also included in the
Final but not labeled as such, suggesting the calculations only refer to a 100 MW unit.


                                                    9
Albania


discharge of a 300 MW facility are projected to be within allowable limits, as also noted
by the Panel.

33.     Energy Sector EA Considerations. Management wishes to clarify its views on the
Panel's finding that the EIA did not address "follow-up investments already contemplated
by the borrowing Government or other investors in the area around the TPP."11 The
Investigation Report suggests that an energy sector EA should have been prepared
covering, for example the proposed AMBO12 pipeline and coastal oil storage terminal
(which had been raised in 2002), and mentions the proposed wind-farm on the Karaburun
Peninsula and proposed undersea power transmission cables to Italy. Management
maintains that as there was no appreciable financial or economic linkage between these
investments and the TPP, an energy sector EA was not required. The TPP was justified
on its own to partially fill the gap in national energy requirements. Management notes
that the concept of the AMBO pipeline has not advanced, the oil depot (constructed and
operated by a private consortium called La Petrolifera) was specifically rejected as a sole
source supply by the Government for the TPP and largely meets needs other than the
TPP, and the proposed wind farm and undersea cable on the Karaburun Peninsula were
only raised in 2008. Management maintains there is no policy requirement that obliges
borrowers to carry out a sector EA for a range of investments without a clear financial or
economic link to specific infrastructure investments under consideration for Bank
financing.

34.     Strategic or Regional EA Considerations. Management notes the Panel's concern
that more strategic or regional development issues were not addressed in the Project EIA
and wishes to clarify its position in this regard. Apart from the potential energy sector
investments noted above, other investments in the Vlora area were proposed during
Project preparation and thereafter during implementation. These include the
"industrial/energy park" surrounding the TPP, as well as other major strategic
development choices proposed for Vlora, such as expansion of fisheries (including
aquaculture), expansion of tourism (including tradeoffs with energy/industrial
development), the possible expansion of Vlora as a deepwater port and container
terminal, a second industrial park, and a major residential complex on the western shore
of the Narta Lagoon.

35.    Management maintains that while the TPP site is located at the edge of a
designated "industrial/energy park," other investments in the park were ill-defined during
Project preparation and, except for the above unassociated oil terminal, none have been
developed to date. As noted above, the 100 MW Bank-financed TPP is filling a gap in
national energy needs and was not intended specifically to serve the needs of a park.
Most importantly, as noted earlier on energy sector EA, Management maintains that there
was no appreciable financial or economic linkage between these potential investments
and the TPP. Therefore a strategic or regional EA was not required to conform to OP
4.01. A few of the potential investment ideas that have been suggested since Project
preparation have received initial government approval but many remain unconfirmed.

11
     Investigation Report page xxxv.
12
     Albanian Macedonia Bulgarian Oil.


                                            10
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


The Government of Albania had not requested any Bank lending or advisory assistance
for strategic investment matters in Vlora before or during Project preparation, nor did
Management view such engagement as necessary to meet policy requirements for the
TPP. Management also believes that advances in Albania's Territorial Planning approach
(as discussed later in this report) is an appropriate vehicle for addressing broader
development concerns.

36.     Independence of Project EIA Consultants. Management notes the Inspection
Panel's finding regarding non-compliance with OP 4.01 on use of the same consulting
firm for the feasibility study and EIA. Management agrees with the Panel that it is
desirable to have a separation of EA from design/engineering in order to avoid potential
conflict of interest and, in fact, this has been the norm in the majority of Category A
Bank projects. In the case of this Project an alternative approach was needed as all
preparation assistance for the Government of Albania was being provided under one
contract financed by USTDA, and, under an EPC approach, project engineering is done
during implementation.

37.     The Bank approached the Government of Canada, which had been supporting
(through its international development agency, CIDA) sectoral work on power supply in
Southeast Europe, for assistance in funding an independent review of the EIA report.
CIDA selected a consultant to review the draft EIA report, which then provided
comments in October 2003 in twelve topical areas to strengthen the documents. These
were taken into account by the World Bank, EBRD and the EIA consultant, and reflected
in both the Final EIA of October 2003 and a December 2003 Addendum (together the
Project EIA) that also included further reviews by Bank staff and EBRD. While
Management agrees that this iterative process was not optimal, and notes that it will seek
to minimize such arrangements in the future, the use of an independent firm and staff
from two IFIs was deemed to be sufficient by Management to meet the intentions of OP
4.01 regarding avoidance of conflict of interest. Management was not aware of any
financial or technical link between the consultant selected by CIDA, and the consultant
preparing the USTDA-funded EIA. Management viewed the CIDA-supported
consultant's experience in the energy sector in Southeast Europe as a valuable
qualification in carrying out the independent review of the EIA.

38.     Other Aspects of the Environmental Assessment Process. The sequence of EA
steps carried out during Bank formal Project preparation is summarized in paragraphs 39-
43 of the Management Response to the Request for Inspection issued on June 1, 2007 and
is therefore not repeated here. Management notes with concern the statements in the
Investigation Report which question the quality of the EIA and the Bank and partner IFI
review processes. Management believes that the Project EIA was certainly of at least
adequate quality and reflected a vigorous and professionally sound internal peer review
among Bank staff and their counterparts in the co-financing IFIs. The EA process was
iterative and in the case of the Project included a Draft EIA report, public consultations
on the draft, a Final EIA report and, to reflect further discussion and peer review by Bank
and EBRD specialists, an Addendum.




                                            11
Albania


39.     Management notes that EBRD's approach to EA is quite comparable to that of the
World Bank. On this point, Management notes that the Compliance Review Report of the
EBRD Independent Recourse Mechanism (issued April 17, 2008 in response to a
complaint on the TPP received on April 19, 2007) did "not find that the EBRD failed in
its obligation to ensure that an adequate EIA was carried out by the Project Sponsor"
and also that "The Final EIA of October 2003, combined with the EIA Addendum of
December 2003, addressed the issues and contained more than the minimum of
information required under the EBRD Environmental Policy."13

40.     Management does note that despite the general adequacy of the Project EIA, the
Investigation Report highlights several smaller deficiencies in the EA process;
clarification by Management on a number of these is provided in Annex 1.

41.     Oil Spill Prevention and Response. Management agrees with the Inspection
Panel on the need to ensure that the TPP has in place the correct procedures for
preventing "the potentially serious environmental impact of potential oil spills during
fuel delivery." In regard to the Panel's view that "...the medium- and long-term risks to
Vlora Bay marine environment and beaches from potential spills when fuel is offloaded
are not minimized and are not planned to be minimized before operations may start...,"14
Management would like to clarify that the risks of oil spills were well-identified during
Project preparation. Explicit references to oil spill risks ­ both during construction and
operation ­ were made in the EIA of the Project, while management and mitigation
measures were incorporated in the EMP. In turn, the EMP formed part of the bidding
documents for the EPC Contract (Annex 5) to construct the Vlora TPP. This is common
practice to ensure that the Contractor performs works and detailed engineering designs in
accordance with the EMP.15 The EMP explicitly requires the EPC Contractor to prepare:
(i) an Oil Spill Prevention Plan (to minimize risks of spilling oil); and (ii) an Oil Spill
Response Plan (to clean up oil spills if they occur despite preventive measures). In
addition, the Project's legal documents include a specific provision requiring KESH to
ensure the implementation of the EMP16 with the statement that:"KESH shall take or
cause to be taken, all measures necessary for the carrying out of the EMP in a timely
manner..."

42.     As of September 3, 2009, the Oil Spill Prevention and Response Plans for the on-
shore installations of the Vlora TPP, including equipment and containment structures, are

13
   Citations from paragraphs 42 and 43; "European Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
Independent Recourse Mechanism: Compliance Review Report Relating to the Vlore Thermal Power
Generation Project;" 17 April 2008. Available at http://www.ebrd.com/about/integrity/irm/0701crr.pdf.
14
   See pages xvii-xvii of the Investigation Report.
15
   Immediate responsibility for the detailed preparation and implementation of the EMP lies contractually
with the EPC Contractor, as the EMP forms an integral part of the EPC Contract. For instance, under the
EPC Contract Section VI, 1.4.7, the Contractor is obliged to "prepare an Oil Spill Prevention Plan for a
potential chemical and/or oil spill scenario during the construction period." Also, according to the EPC
Technical Specifications Section VI, Annex V, Table 8.2, "Operation Phase Mitigation," the EPC
Contractor has to "submit an oil spill prevention and response plan with necessary response equipment,
mitigation measures and a training program for the on-site personnel."
16
   Project Agreement signed between KESH and the World Bank on April 6, 2004; see Schedule 2
Implementation Program, section 3.


                                                   12
                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


in place. Regarding the off-shore facilities, the Oil Spill Prevention Plan is in place, while
the Oil Spill Response Plan is being finalized and according to the Credit Agreement with
the Bank, must be in place before the plant is operational.

43.     The Government of Albania and the Bank recognized that KESH did not have the
necessary knowledge and skills required to oversee various environmental aspects of the
Vlora TPP Project. For that purpose, another separate consultancy focusing only on
environmental issues was also financed under the technical assistance component of the
Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project. An Environmental Management Unit
(EMU) was created in KESH to follow environmental aspects of the Project, and since
2006, the Environmental Consultancy has provided specific assistance to this unit. An
internationally known consulting firm with specific expertise on oil spills was also
brought in under sub-contract. A key task of the firm was to: "Review an oil spill
prevention and response plan to be prepared by EPC Contractor."

44.    Because of the delay in awarding the EPC contract, the Environmental
Consultancy contract remained dormant until April 2007, when KESH and the Consultant
declared the contract effective. The EPC Contractor began the actual engineering and
construction works on the Project site in May 2007.

45.     Based on the progress of the works, starting in October 2008, the Bank's Project
team, along with its co-financiers, requested KESH to provide the Oil Spill Prevention
and Response plans. KESH thus requested its EPC Contractor at that time to begin
preparation of the Oil Spill Prevention and Response plans. The EPC Contractor
submitted the Oil Spill Prevention plan in May 2009. The Environmental Consultant
reviewed and provided comments on the Oil Spill Prevention Plan. Management believes
that the engineering and construction of the off-shore fuel facilities are of international
standards and that oil spill risks during fuel unloading are minimized. Finally,
Management notes that the Vlora TPP is expected to take 15 to 20 small (e.g., perhaps
10,000 tons) tankers annually (assuming base load operations of around 80 percent).

46.     Bank Action to Remedy Deficiencies. As the final offshore Oil Spill Response
Plan is not yet fully in place, the Bank will oversee the completion of the Plan in advance
of routine facility operation (estimated at present to be early November 2009), as required
by the Credit Agreement.

Economic Evaluation of Alternatives

47.     This section of the report refers to the Panel's findings largely in the context of
compliance with OP 10.04, Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations and OMS
2.20, Project Appraisal.

48.    Management notes the Panel's finding on the Project's economic analysis,
confirming the positive high economic return of the Project for the Albanian economy. It
also acknowledges the Panel's statement that "(a) adding a technology and cost structure




                                             13
Albania


like the TPP to the current structure of cost and supply in Albania makes infinitely good
sense..."17

49.      Re-evaluation of the Fier Site's Economics. Management notes that the Panel's
report on the economic analysis leading to the selection of the Vlora B site analyzes ex-
post the alternative of constructing the same TPP in Fier (the site that came second in
order of preference in the consultant's siting study), but remains inconclusive on whether
this site should have been preferred on the basis of the economic cost-benefit analysis.
Management would like to clarify certain issues related to the Panel's analysis of Fier,
which tend to indicate that even today--with the benefit of hindsight and knowledge
added compared to the time of the Project's appraisal--on the basis of economic analysis,
the Vlora site would still likely be the preferred site. The Panel makes certain adjustments
to re-evaluate the levelized costs calculations presented in the siting study comparing the
Fier and Vlora B sites. In that regard, Management wishes to note the following. Firstly,
the fuel offloading facility built for Vlora B would have also been necessary for the Fier
plant. Fier is not on the coast, therefore sufficient fuel would still need to be transported
to the site (requiring a lengthy pipeline with associated potential for environmental
impacts during construction). Given the proximity of Fier to Vlora Bay and the lack of
alternative nearby ports, there is a high likelihood that fuel facilities similar to the
existing ones would be needed for Fier. The adjustment of the capital cost for Vlora B
should therefore also apply to the Fier option. Secondly, when in 2007 KESH approached
its EPC Contractor to negotiate a discount for the possible removal of the off-shore fuel
facilities from the Project (considering the Petrolifera alternative), the EPC Contractor
indicated that the total Contract value would be reduced only by about USD3 million (not
USD6 million noted in the Panel's report, page 66). Given the above, the adjustments in
the Panel's report lead to an overstatement of the costs of Vlora B. Nevertheless, even
with those adjustments, the Vlora B site is clearly the better choice on the basis of
`internalized' costs.

50.   With regard to external costs, the Panel emphasizes the externalities of: (i)
damage to fisheries; and (ii) tourism.

51.    Fisheries. Management concurs with the Panel's findings: "(i) atmospheric
emissions do not pose a significant risk of harm to either the human population of Vlora
or the floral and faunal populations of the Narta Lagoon;"18 and (ii) the marine
environment will not be significantly affected by the operation of the plant's cooling
system.19 It appears therefore, that the only potential harm to fisheries would be a
potential oil spill of such an extent that it would irreparably damage fisheries in Vlora
Bay. The Panel's analysis estimates damage to fisheries at an annualized USD843,000.20
Management wishes to note that this amount of damages would require a worst-case
scenario (e.g., collision between large tankers) rather than anything associated with TPP
routine offloading of fuel at the single point mooring location. In addition, for these

17
   Investigation Report, Annex D, page 115.
18
   Investigation Report, para. 169, page 40.
19
   Investigation Report, paras. 174, 175.
20
   Investigation Report para. 296.


                                               14
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


annualized costs to occur, a worst case remediation scenario should also be assumed (i.e.,
the oil spill would not be cleaned up for many years.)

52.     Regarding the relative positions of the Vlora B and Fier sites, if such an
externality is to be taken into account, Management would like to clarify that oil spill
risks would apply equally to the Fier site and to Vlora B, as both would use similar oil
fueling facilities. Therefore, the site selection evaluation would not have been affected.

53.     That said, Management notes that the risk to fisheries from an oil spill was
identified during the EIA and addressed through the EMP. The EMP explicitly requires
the EPC Contractor to prepare: (i) an Oil Spill Prevention Plan; and (ii) an Oil Spill
Response Plan. The Project also financed a separate Environmental Consultancy to assist
KESH with ensuring proper implementation of the EMP. As noted earlier, one of the four
specific tasks of this Environmental Consultancy concerns the implementation of the
EMP especially regarding Oil Spill Prevention and Response. Bank staff and KESH have
met on several occasions with fisherman working out of the port next to the TPP to
inform them of progress in reducing these risks and they have been receptive and
supportive.

54.    Given the Project's design to: (i) minimize oil spill risks (Oil Spill Prevention
Plan); and (ii) mitigate any remaining risks (Oil Spill Response Plan), Management
believes that the Project's economic analysis correctly placed little value on the
externality costs of damaged fisheries.

55.     Tourism. Management agrees with the Panel's finding:21 "The actual
size/footprint of the TPP is not a pristine natural area with high potential to attract
tourism. [Zverrneci Island and the Treport headland and the larger part of the Vlora Bay
shoreline] none of these locations will be immediately impacted by the TPP..." The Panel
finds, however, that there are risks that the `sense of place' of the Treport headland and
Vlora Bay as a desirable tourist site remains at risk, because of the operations of the TPP
and other proposed developments.22

56.     Management acknowledges that there may be some impacts--localized and
narrow in the Project area--for tourism. Because thermal power plants require proximity
to waterways for quantity fuel transportation and considerable water mass for cooling
purposes, it is not uncommon that such plants are located close to the sea. A significant
number of islands in the Mediterranean have built power plants on their coasts, but
tourism advanced rapidly nonetheless as a result, inter alia, of a reliable electricity
supply.

57.     Management acknowledges that some external costs related to tourism were not
taken into account in the Project's economic analysis. However, such costs would not
have materially altered the overall economics of the Project, because they would most
likely be more than compensated by the benefits for tourism of reliable power supply. In
addition, Management would like to clarify that, on an annualized basis, such costs would
21
     Investigation Report para. 107.
22
     Ibid.


                                            15
Albania


need to exceed USD1.8 million for the Fier site to be selected over Vlora B. Given the
small footprint of the TPP and its lack of immediate impacts on Vlora Bay, as the Panel
acknowledges, it is unlikely that potential losses from tourism revenue would be so high
as to justify the additional costs of constructing the plant at Fier.

58.      Management also acknowledges that should further industrial developments take
place in the zone, tourism in the Treport area may be affected. However, this is an issue
that is addressed through Albania's new territorial planning law.23

Compliance with Social and Cultural Policies

59.     The Panel found that "the Bank did not seek to obtain information on the presence
and role of cultural endowments in the Vlora Area."24 Management acknowledges that a
field survey of cultural resources was not carried out during Project preparation and that
it erred in suggesting that no sources existed regarding cultural heritage in the area. Bank
practice was to trigger OPN 11.03 only when there was reason to suspect that the Project
could disturb archaeological remains or other culturally significant resources. As noted
by the Panel, a supervision mission in 2006, which included a professionally qualified
archaeologist, determined that no archaeological remains were likely to be found there,
and this has proven to be the case during plant excavation and construction. With regard
to the archaeological sites of Treport Cape/Aulona, Orikum, Kanina Castle and Marmiroi
Church, these are all located at some distance from the power plant, which is not visible
from most of these locations. No roads, pipelines or transmission lines will traverse or
pass near any of these sites. No evidence suggesting that tourists will fail to visit these
historical sites because of their proximity to the TPP has been cited by the Requesters or
the Panel. Management believes that factors such as road access, site improvements and
the availability of amenities such as guides, museums and guidebooks will be more
determining of tourist visitation than the presence of a power plant in the vicinity.

Social Assessment

60.     The Panel found that "a flaw in the Bank's work for the Project was the absence
of a social assessment during Project appraisal."25 The assessment of social impacts is
required in OP 4.01, which stipulates that social impacts and opportunities must be taken
into account during this due diligence and managed and mitigated using environmental
and social action plans. The definition of environment fully incorporates social impacts
and opportunities as a key component of the EIA. As part of the EA process,
Management believes it is essential to conduct adequate social research and consultations
supported by public disclosure, which are needed to identify and manage social impact
issues and development opportunities resulting from the investments.


23
    Officially cited as Law No.10 119, dated 23 April 2009, "On Territorial Planning." This was technically
effective 15 days following its publication in the Official Gazett Fletore Zyrtare #56 (published on May 8,
2009) though fuller application will take place by September 2010, when Law No. 8405 of 16 September
1998, "On urban planning," will be fully revoked.
24
   Investigation Report, para. 224.
25
   Investigation Report, para. 227.


                                                    16
                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


61.    In Management's view, social issues were not perceived as a prominent feature of
the investment during the EA process in 2003 because the TPP was not located in a
residential community but rather in a relatively isolated location behind an undeveloped
beach, 6 kilometers from Vlora (see Box 3). There did not appear to be major differences
among stakeholder groups, ethnic or class distinctions relevant to the power plant. There
was widespread agreement that Albania needed to increase its power generation capacity
and to diversify its energy sources. There were no social groupings that would appear,
prima facie, to be relevant for the issue of power plant siting. The only significant users
of the area were fishermen and local bathers who use the beach in the vicinity of the
power plant site.

62.     Although there are good economic and technical justifications for the location of
the plant, broader consultations at the start of Project preparation might have revealed
differences in public opinion about the plant and its location on Vlora Bay and possibly
flagged opposition to it. Wider consultations could also have revealed a broader range of
local stakeholders' visions of and aspirations for Vlora. However, these observations only
came to light in January 2005, some ten months after signing of the Project Agreement
and well after the EA process had been completed. Management acknowledges that these
post EIA-issues would have been better managed if the Project had established a public
information and outreach facility.

63.     Consultation and public participation called for in OP 4.01 should have been
sufficient to identify issues of concern to local residents. It is possible that the
consultations carried out in 2002 and 2003 may not have included some relevant
stakeholders, who later expressed opposition to the Project's design. In hindsight, during
2005, when opposition to the Project first emerged, it may have been appropriate to bring
a social scientist into the field to gauge the social situation and the diverse public
opinions concerning the Project.

                                        Box 3. The TPP Site
Although tourism is important to Vlora, there are no permanent resorts or hotels located on the
beach behind which the TPP is located. It is a stretch of sandy beach with shallow water and
gentle surf. The only structure on the beach front in 2003 near the TPP was an abandoned caustic
soda plant which today consists of several large crumbling concrete structures, a polluted relic of
the communist period. Behind the beach is a stand of pine trees planted some 40 years ago.
Today, there is a small number (about ten) of structures for local tourists, consisting of kiosks and
small platforms on which deck chairs are placed. Nowadays, the beach near the TPP is frequented
mainly by local families who arrive by car, bicycle or on foot, bringing their own food, drink, and
equipment.
The beach presents a contrast with the beaches south of Vlora that are characterized by a sharp
coastal drop off, deep water, hotels with elaborate bars, beach chairs, parasols, etc. set up for the
comfort of tourists. Entrepreneurs may one day decide to develop hotels or other tourism-related
activities on this beach but, to date, all of the dozens of hotels in the Vlora region are located in
the city itself or stretching from the city southward along the bay shore.
Construction of the TPP is nearly complete and the beach in front will be returned to its original
condition. The plant is located 300 meters from the shoreline, and the buried water and oil
pipelines extend considerably offshore which will not interfere with swimming and beach use.


                                                  17
Albania


64.     The Panel also faults the Bank for failing to carry out a "social risks assessment"
and cites OMS 2.20 in this regard. OMS 2.20 provides useful guidance on the appraisal
of investment projects, including a section on "Sociological aspects," which begins, "The
sociological aspects of projects... are particularly important for projects designed to
assist particular beneficiaries and/or projects whose success depends on participation by
the beneficiaries... They may be less important for projects involving primarily
infrastructure and for some projects they have relatively little significance."26 (emphasis
added). In the preparation of this Project and based on the guidance in OMS 2.20 and
Bank practice, Management believes that the EA process was sufficient to identify salient
social impacts.

65.     Actions by the Bank. Management is working with KESH to increase
engagement with the residents of Vlora. Activities could include: (i) establishment of a
local citizens advisory board; (ii) hiring of an outreach specialist; and (iii) development
of outreach programs such as visits to the plant by university students and school
children. A draft engagement plan is expected by October 30, 2009, with a final plan
expected by December 30, 2009.

66.     Management is committed to strengthening the assessment of social and cultural
aspects of investments through application of the EA policy as well as related social and
operational policies. Going forward, Management will seek to ensure that: (i) salient
social impacts are identified early in the Bank's due diligence; (ii) negative impacts are
managed and social opportunities are developed; and (iii) the Bank supervises these
aspects throughout the Project cycle. To this end, Management is clarifying the division
of labor and responsibilities of social and environmental technical staff with respect to
due diligence and supervision and this is expected to be completed by March 2010.

67.     With respect to consultation and disclosure, social specialists will be tasked to
ensure that the quality, scope and frequency of public consultation are adequate and well
documented. Social development staff will receive regular training in this regard starting
shortly. Management also notes that improvement in the assessment of social impacts of
projects is an Action Item for the ECA Region following the Board review of the
Inspection Panel Report for the Albania Integrated Coastal Zone Management and Clean-
Up Project. Management will ensure that institutional strengthening in this regard will
also apply to major infrastructure and energy projects to enhance their quality and
sustainability.

Consultation, Participation and Disclosure

68.    The Government held three public consultations on the TPP. The first
consultation in late October 2002 focused on the results of the siting study and preceded
the Bank's decision to proceed with formal Project preparation. Newspaper articles
describe the consultation as including local and regional officials, academics,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), intellectuals and others. The discussion raised
questions on technology, local impacts and alternative sites.

26
     Operational Manual ­ OMS 2.20, revised 2004, para. 55.


                                                    18
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation


69.      The Project EIA thereafter met the minimum 2-stage requirement for consultation
under OP 4.01; at the early stage (Terms of Reference for the EIA) and thereafter the
Draft EIA Report stage. These consultations were carried out respectively on April 2,
2003 and September 3, 2003. As noted in the Investigation Report timeline, the EIA was
first disclosed to stakeholders starting on July 23, 2003 (Draft), followed by the posting
of the final EIA that October, and the EIA Addendum in January 2004. The end of the
disclosure period for EBRD on these same Project EIA documents was June 7, 2004.
Management acknowledges that the Terms of Reference for the April 2003 EIA
consultation were not distributed until the time of the meeting and that this was a
shortcoming. Regarding the September 2003 consultation, Management notes the Draft
was disclosed at several locales in advance of the meeting, and timely updates were made
available thereafter. This consultation took place two months before the Project Appraisal
date of November 10, 2003, and six months before Board presentation. The Press Release
for the approved Project was widely circulated. Management believes the long period of
disclosure of the Project EIA and wide coverage of the TPP Project in the media at the
time of electricity disruptions provided a number of opportunities for concerned
stakeholders to know about the project and access documentation.

70.    Public objections to the Project arose around the time of Project effectiveness.
Management responded to each written enquiry fairly and diligently. As noted elsewhere,
the Bank conducted a specialized mission in response to concerns raised on cultural
property.

71.     To prepare this Management Report, the Bank carried out a mission in Albania in
August/September 2009. This mission had the opportunity to meet with members of eight
different local NGOs. In these meetings, Bank staff asked why the protests against the
Vlora TPP were not registered with Bank Management until 2005, even though the
Project EIA had been disclosed and was thereafter available on the internet and in hard
copy, and had been covered by the press since 2003. Several NGO representatives in
Vlora stated that they had no information about the Project until about 2005.

72.    NGO representatives offered various explanations for the lag in civil society
mobilization. One view was that civil society may have been afraid to engage with
government. Another view suggested that civil society was "immature" and unused to
acting on issues of public concern. Bankwatch (2008)27 in its study of opposition to the
nearby Petrolifera oil terminal stated that civil society was slow to respond because of the
highly technical nature of the materials available. It is plausible that civil society
organizations were not sufficiently mobilized to receive and act on information.
According to Bankwatch (2008),28 "[l]ocal response to the project [a]rose in Vlora in
2004 and [was] formalised as the Civic Alliance for the Protection of the Vlora Bay... in
March 2005." When protests finally arose, they occurred in a context that included hard-
fought national elections (held on July 3, 2005). Opposition to broad industrial
development in Vlora became the banner of one of the political parties, a factor that may
have contributed to the increase in public protests. Public opposition to the TPP emerged

27
     http://bankwatch.org/documents/FFM_vlora_report.pdf (accessed on Sept. 2, 2009).
28
     Idem.


                                                     19
Albania


some ten months after Board approval (March 16, 2004), as some civil society
organizations began to mobilize against industrial development in Vlora in general, and
especially with respect to the proposed Petrolifera oil terminal. In sum, opposition to the
power plant was influenced by factors that go beyond the plant itself.

73.     Bank staff observed during the August/September 2009 mission, however, that
opposition to the TPP is not universal and some stakeholders have revised their views.
Several local residents and business representatives with whom staff discussed the
Project pointed to the power shortages occurring in Vlora and to the adverse effect of
blackouts ­ lasting up to 13 hours on some days in recent months ­ on tourism and
business in general. Others, particularly those who had visited the plant, admired the
state-of-the art technology, which they perceived as representing the modernization of
Albania. Those who saw the oil spill prevention equipment in the power plant perimeter
were favorably impressed. However, some people continued to voice dissatisfaction with
the location of the plant in proximity to the beach.

74.    Aarhus Convention. Management notes that its Response to the Request for
Inspection was issued on June 1, 2007, before the findings on Albania's compliance with
the Aarhus Convention on the TPP and other siting decisions (i.e., oil storage terminal,
port infrastructure and oil and gas pipeline) in Vlora were made available by the
Compliance Committee of the Convention. While the Bank is not a Party to the
Convention,29 the focus on "access to information, public participation in decision-
making and access to justice in environmental matters" was assumed to have
implications for Bank consultation and disclosure policy implementation. The Bank
responded to the Committee's requests for information before it issued its report, and was
pleased to note its acknowledgement of the Bank's forthcoming assistance to Albania on
Aarhus Compliance, which is continuing.

75.     An important element of the Compliance Committee Findings and
Recommendations (issued July 31, 2007), reiterated in the Investigation Report, concerns
whether there was sufficient public engagement during the site selection process in 2002
and thereafter in the formal Project EIA process. Considering the findings of the
Committee, as well as the Investigation Report, Management acknowledges likely
deficiencies in meaningful engagement with the public in the site selection process,
which prevented: (i) a sound understanding of societal viewpoints on alternative sites and
siting criteria; (ii) feedback from the residents of the Vlora region regarding their views
on the preferred site in their community, and as a result thereafter; (iii) a more complete
discussion of alternatives in the Project EIA. Bank staff did encourage the Government of
Albania to examine other potential sites beyond the already preferred location in Vlora,
and this approach was accepted by the Government in the siting and feasibility studies.



29
  Management notes the Panel's findings, which rely on the findings of the Aarhus Compliance Committee
which, under Article 15 of the Aarhus Convention, has "a non-confrontational, non-judicial and
consultative nature." As the Panel did not articulate the basis for its conclusions of non-compliance on this
matter, other than the aforementioned reference to the findings of the Aarhus Compliance Committee, this
Report has tried to address the salient points raised by that Committee.


                                                     20
                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


76.    Management acknowledges concerns by the Aarhus Compliance Committee
regarding documentation on the invitation and noticing process on the two Project EIA
consultations (April and September 2003) but also notes the long disclosure period of the
EIA documents mentioned earlier, which should have at least mitigated some of these
acknowledged deficiencies. Management also notes that the Press Release on Board
approval of the Project was widely referenced by national media, yet public objection to
the Project only emerged nearly a year later.

77.     Regarding the Bank's role in Aarhus Convention compliance, whereas the
Committee found deficiencies in the Government of Albania's compliance with selected
provisions of the Aarhus Convention, the Bank maintains that it did not "finance project
activities that would contravene such country obligations, as identified during the EA,"
which is a key element of OP 4.01, para. 3. Management notes that specific guidance for
IFIs to support partner countries in meeting the obligations of the Conventions of the
United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN ECE), including Aarhus, were
lacking at the time of Project preparation, and are still awaited. This absence of practical
guidance was found to be an obstacle to EBRD's role in supporting Albania by the
EBRD Independent Recourse Mechanism review (April 2008)30 regarding the EBRD
proportion of financing of the Vlora TPP.

78.     Management wishes to note several recent developments with regards to Aarhus
compliance by Albania in response to the Compliance Committee's 2007 report. Albania
was asked to submit annual progress reports, with the last one due in November 2008. A
report dated January 30, 2009 was submitted for consideration by the Compliance
Committee at their March 31 to April 3, 2009 meeting. While expressing regret on the
delay of Albania's progress report on improving compliance, the "Committee expressed
its general satisfaction at the content of the report, which reflected genuine efforts
resulting in significant progress."

79.     One of the action items for Albania was improvement in its environmental
regulatory framework (i.e., amendments/completion of the existing environmental laws
or drafting of new ones) to make them compliant with the Aarhus Convention provisions.
After the approval of the new Law on Environmental Protection, No.8934, dated May 9,
2002, which devoted one Chapter on Environmental Impact Assessment, two new laws
were approved, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment No.8990, dated January
23, 2003 and the Law No. 9424, dated June 10, 2005 on the Ratification of the Strategic
Environmental Assessment Protocol. In line with the requirements of the Aarhus
Convention and EU Directives, the following acts were also approved:

       Council of Ministers Decision No. 994, dated July 2, 2008 On Drawing Public
       Opinion in Environmental Decision making which defines the procedures for public
       information and participation in EIA process and drafting of legal acts and strategies.

       Two Ministerial Regulations respectively Regulation No.1, dated August 17, 2004 on
       Public Participation in the EIA process and Regulation No. 1, dated March 3, 2009 on

30
     Ibid; EBRD report, paragraph 119 (iii) and (v).


                                                       21
Albania


     Duties of the Environmental Bodies to Ensure Public and NGO Participation in the
     EIA Process. The objective of the Public Participation Regulation is to define the
     mandatory rules and procedures that guarantee public participation in the EIA
     process, while the objective of the Regulation on Environmental bodies is to define
     the roles of the Regional Environmental Agencies, Directorate of EIA and
     Environmental Permits and the Commission of Permit Review at the Ministry of
     Environment, Forestry and Water Administration, in ensuring the participation of the
     affected public in the EIA and permitting process.

80.      Albania's new Law on Territorial Planning,31 which has been supported by a
number of donors--Council of Europe Development Bank, United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the World Bank--including through dialogue
on policy-based lending and an investment project, marks a significant advance in how
territorial planning will be managed in Albania in the future. The new law contains major
enhancements in the area of transparency, disclosure and public consultation. The law
significantly advances public notification of planning actions under consideration. One of
the hallmarks of the new law is the establishment of an internet-enabled "Planning
Register," along with conventional media for public disclosure. The law establishes the
Register as the place where local, regional and national governments post proposed as
well as approved planning decisions. This includes new spatial plans, development
applications and approvals, and national actions pertaining to territorial planning. In
addition, this law lays out a clear framework for planning functions at national and local
levels. It gives significant responsibly in territorial planning and development control to
the local level, and thus finally aligns the territorial planning system with the prevailing
decentralization legislation in Albania and subsidiary principle of the EU.

81.     In the meantime, as part of the EU-CARDS funded project on the implementation
of the national plan for approximation of environmental legislation, three new laws are in
the final stages of preparation: the Laws on Environmental Protection, EIA and
Environmental Permitting, in line with the IPPC Directive. The three laws make very
distinct reference to procedures of public information and participation on EIA as well as
re-definition of roles of agencies in this process.

82.    Bank Actions to Remedy Deficiencies. Management notes that the Bank has
responded to the invitation by the Compliance Committee of the Aarhus Convention "to
provide advice and assistance to the Party" (i.e., Albania) with respect to enhancing
compliance. The Bank has approved a USD370,000 Institutional Development Fund
(IDF) capacity-building grant for Strengthening Aarhus Convention Implementation for
Albania,32 which will begin in September 2009 and build on similar but smaller efforts by
the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Development objectives of the
IDF activity include:


31
   Officially cited as Law No.10 119, dated 23 April 2009, "On Territorial Planning." This was technically
effective 15 days following its publication in the Official Gazett Fletore Zyrtare #56 (published on May 8,
2009) though fuller application will take place by September 2010, when Law No. 8405 of 16 September
1998, "On urban planning", will be fully revoked.
32
   Grant agreement will be disclosed when formally signed by new Government of Albania.


                                                    22
                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


    Build and/or improve the capacity of the Aarhus Center, the regional environmental
    agencies, civil society, and other stakeholders in understanding the Aarhus
    Convention requirements and in implementing an updated local Aarhus Convention
    Strategy and Action Plan;

    Enhance the interaction between civil society and public authorities with respect to
    public participation and access to justice in government decision-making regarding
    national and transboundary environment matters, fostering improved compliance with
    the relevant provisions of the Convention; and

    Improve civil society's watchdog role, by engaging it in a constructive manner with
    environment-related Government planning processes, through improved monitoring
    of guidelines and requirements set forth in the Convention.

83.    The Bank will continue to support the Government of Albania in the IDF-
supported project, which will extend through fiscal year 2011. In addition, the Bank will
develop and deliver in spring 2010 a training module for Bank staff on assisting partner
governments in meeting their international treaty obligations, including practical
implementation (with written guidance) of two UN ECE Conventions (Aarhus and
Espoo).


   IV.   MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

84.    In light of the foregoing, Management has prepared an Action Plan (see Table 1
below) to address key issues, in particular oil spill response, environmental monitoring,
analysis of social issues, and communications. A World Bank mission discussed the
broad features of the Action Plan with the Requesters and other interested civil society
organizations in early September 2009.

85.    The Bank also met with the new Government to discuss key elements of the
proposed Action Plan on September 14, 2009. While Government has agreed with the
key elements, an update will be provided in advance of the Board discussion.

86.    Management will provide an update to the Board six months after the Board's
consideration of this Management Report and Recommendations.




                                           23
    Albania


                                 Table 1. Proposed Management Action Plan
ISSUE                            ACTION
Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures
                                 As the final offshore Oil Spill Response Plan is not yet fully in place, the
Marine Environment ­ Oil Spill   Bank will oversee the completion of the Plan in advance of routine facility
Response                         operation (estimated at present to be early November 2009), as required
                                 by the Credit Agreement.

                                 Management will report on progress by KESH regarding regular
Air and water quality            monitoring of environmental parameters associated with Project
                                 operations, along with corresponding disclosure of monitoring data.

                                 Management will urge KESH to increase engagement with the residents
                                 of Vlora. Activities could include: (i) establishment of a citizens advisory
                                 board; (ii) hiring of a full time outreach specialist; (iii) development of
                                 outreach programs such as visits to the plant by university students and
                                 school children. A draft engagement plan is expected by October 30,
                                 2009, with a final plan expected by December 30, 2009.
                                 Management is committed to strengthening the assessment of social and
                                 cultural aspects of investments through application of the EA policy as
                                 well as related social and operational policies. Going forward,
                                 Management will seek to ensure that: (i) salient social impacts are
Social Analysis                  identified early in the Bank's due diligence; (ii) negative impacts are
                                 managed and social opportunities are developed; and (iii) the Bank
                                 supervises these aspects throughout the project cycle. To this end,
                                 Management is clarifying the division of labor and responsibilities of social
                                 and environmental technical staff with respect to due diligence and
                                 supervision. This is expected to be completed by March 2010.
                                 With respect to consultation and disclosure, social specialists will be
                                 tasked to ensure that the quality, scope and frequency of public
                                 consultation are adequate and that they are well documented. Social
                                 development staff will receive regular training in this regard starting in the
                                 next two months.

                                 The Bank will continue to support the Government of Albania on the IDF-
                                 supported Strengthening Aarhus Convention Implementation capacity
                                 building project, which will extend through fiscal year 2011.
International Environmental
Obligations under OP 4.01        The Bank will develop and deliver in spring 2010 a training module for
                                 Bank staff on assisting partner governments in meeting their international
                                 treaty obligations, including practical implementation (with written
                                 guidance) of two UN ECE Conventions (Aarhus and Espoo).
                                 The Bank will continue to supervise the Project for any chance finds of
Cultural Property
                                 cultural property assets through Project closing.




                                                      24
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation


                              Table 1. Proposed Management Action Plan
ISSUE                         ACTION
Consultation and Disclosure
                              Management notes that improvement in the assessment of social impacts
                              of projects is an Action Item for the ECA Region following the Board
                              review of the Inspection Panel Report for the Albania ICZM Project.
                              Management will ensure that institutional strengthening in this regard will
                              also apply to major infrastructure and energy projects to enhance their
                              quality and sustainability (action ongoing).
Implementation of Public
Consultations throughout      Beginning in October 2009, Management will implement a newly revised
Project Implementation        Communications Strategy in the World Bank Office in Tirana, Albania.
                              The new strategy includes inter alia: (i) a system for proactive and time-
                              bound responses to complaints from communities, civil society and the
                              private sector; (ii) increased supervision of government-led consultation
                              processes during project preparation and implementation; and (iii) annual
                              briefings to the relevant Parliamentary committees on project
                              implementation and policy reform issues.




                                       V.     CONCLUSION

   87.     Management believes that the Bank team has made every effort to apply its
   policies and procedures and to pursue its mission statement in the context of the Project.
   Management notes the Panel's findings and is committed to fulfilling the Management
   Action Plan and to following up on its implementation. Management believes that the
   proposed Action Plan attached to its response addresses the Panel's concerns.




                                                  25
                                                             ANNEX
                                           FINDINGS, COMMENTS AND ACTIONS
No.                 Issue / Finding                   Para    Comments/Actions
                                                      nos.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
1.    Environmental Impact Assessment                 114-    Comment: Management notes the Inspection Panel's finding
      Upon completion of Feasibility Study, the       129     regarding non-compliance with OP 4.01 on use of the same
      same consultant firm was commissioned                   consulting firm for the feasibility study and EIA. Management
      by the Albanian Ministry of Industry and                agrees with the Panel that it is desirable to have a separation of
      Energy to undertake the Environmental                   EA from design/engineering in order to avoid potential conflict of
      Impact Assessment for the selected Vlora                interest and, in fact, this has been the norm in the majority of
      site. The Panel finds Management failed                 Category A Bank projects. In the case of this Project an
      to ensure compliance with the                           alternative approach was needed as all preparation assistance
      requirements of OP 4.01 by allowing the                 for the Government of Albania was being provided under one
      Borrower to employ the same consultant                  contract financed by USTDA, and, under an EPC approach,
      that conducted the siting and feasibility               project engineering is done during implementation.
      studies for the Project [to...] also                    The Bank approached the Government of Canada, which had
      undertak[e] the Project's Environmental                 been supporting (through CIDA) sectoral work on power supply
      Assessment.                                             in Southeast Europe, for assistance in funding an independent
                                                              review of the EIA report. CIDA selected a consultant to review
                                                              the draft EIA report, which then provided comments in October
                                                              2003 in twelve topical areas to strengthen the documents. These
                                                              were taken into account by the World Bank, EBRD and the EIA
                                                              consultant, and reflected in both the Final EIA of October 2003
                                                              and a December 2003 Addendum (together the Project EIA) that
                                                              also included further reviews by Bank staff and EBRD. While
                                                              Management agrees that this iterative process was not optimal,
                                                              and will seek to minimize such arrangements in the future, the
                                                              use of an independent firm and staff from two IFIs was deemed
                                                              to be sufficient by Management to meet the intentions of OP 4.01
                                                              regarding avoidance of conflict of interest. Management was not
                                                              aware of any financial or technical link between the consultant
                                                              selected by CIDA, and the consultant preparing the USTDA-
                                                              funded EIA. Management viewed the CIDA-supported
                                                              consultant's experience in the energy sector in Southeast
                                                              Europe as a valuable qualification in carrying out the
                                                              independent review of the EIA.
                                                              Action: No action needed. Should the Bank face a similar
                                                              exceptional situation in the future a waiver would be sought from
                                                              the Board.
2.    Consideration of Technological                  131-    Comment: Management notes the Panel's finding of
      Alternatives                                    132     compliance.
      The Panel finds it appropriate that non-                Action: No action needed.
      firm technological alternatives were not
      considered further in the Environmental
      Impact Assessment. Although the
      discussion in the Siting Study is not
      reproduced in the Final Environmental
      Assessment, appropriate technological
      alternatives for the Project were
      assessed. This is in accord with OP 4.01.
3.    Consideration of Site Alternatives              133-    Comment: Management acknowledges the Inspection Panel's
      The Panel finds that the Environmental          139     finding that the Government of Albania selected the site for the
      Assessment, containing post hoc                         TPP (and associated investments) in 2002, before the detailed
      justification for site selection, contributed           Environmental Assessment for the Project commenced in 2003.
      nothing to improving Project selection,                 While the Investigation Report finds deficiencies in this approach
                                                              regarding OP 4.01 compliance, Management believes the Bank's
No.                Issue / Finding                   Para   Comments/Actions
                                                     nos.

      siting, planning, or design. The Panel                engagement during this stage before Concept Review
      notes that the purpose of the Vlora EA                conformed to Bank policy and acceptable practice. As the Bank
      was thus reduced to improving Project                 had been a partner with the Government of Albania on energy
      implementation after decisions to proceed             issues for several years, during 2002 the Bank did provide
      had been taken. This process was not                  advice to the Government (and its consultants) on an informal
      compliant with OP 4.01 paragraphs 1, 2                basis as a potential financier of the TPP. The Bank was aware of
      and 3.                                                the preference of the Government of Albania for a TPP site in
      The Panel concludes that Management                   Vlora, as well as the work of the international consultants
      did not comply with OP 4.01 paragraph 5               preparing the feasibility and siting studies. As part of due
      in accepting studies that failed to meet the          diligence, the Bank urged the Government to consider other
      fundamental purpose of the                            alternative TPP sites besides Vlora. This recommendation was
      Environmental Assessment policy. The                  accepted, as reflected in the consultant Terms of Reference in
      Bank failed to insist on further appropriate          April 2002, and was followed thereafter in the siting study, which
      studies to remedy shortcomings.                       was finalized on October 21, 2002.
                                                            The Bank formally started preparing the Project with the
                                                            issuance of the PID on January 2, 2003 and internal Concept
                                                            Review meeting on January 10, 2003. The first Project
                                                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet was posted in the InfoShop
                                                            on February 20, 2003, confirming the Category A EA. The
                                                            Concept Review meeting came after the Vlora Council of
                                                            Territorial Adjustment approval of the Vlora B site on December
                                                            21, 2002 and immediately before the Albania Council of
                                                            Territorial Adjustment approval on February 19, 2003 of the
                                                            highest ranked site (Vlora B) emerging from the feasibility/siting
                                                            stage.
                                                            While actions by the Government of Albania during the site
                                                            selection process were not in themselves subject to OP 4.01, the
                                                            Bank believed that the multiple-criteria approach utilized by the
                                                            international consultants for seven alternative sites was good
                                                            practice. The Bank thoroughly reviewed the consultants' report
                                                            concerning these multiple sites and considered the
                                                            recommendation of Vlora B to be technically sound. The Bank
                                                            was aware of the public meeting (held on October 31, 2002) that
                                                            followed the release of the final siting study, but the Bank
                                                            recognizes that earlier consultation with potentially affected
                                                            communities would have been desirable.
                                                            The Bank's due diligence confirmed that the Vlora B site merited
                                                            the highest ranking and that a Project EIA to investigate its full
                                                            suitability could commence. Management emphasizes that the
                                                            EIA thereafter was not to simply endorse the Vlora B site but to
                                                            assess risks, determine mitigating measures and ensure that
                                                            Bank policy requirements were met. Subsequently, the results of
                                                            the siting study (including environmental screening) were
                                                            included in the required section on alternatives in the EIA, as
                                                            required under OP 4.01 for a Category A project. Management
                                                            believes that the Project EIA disclosure and consultation which
                                                            followed provided significant improvements on Albania's
                                                            previous procedures.
                                                            Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this Inspection
                                                            Panel case will be incorporated into guidance to staff on
                                                            safeguards.
4.    Omission of Social Analysis                    140-   Comment: In Management's view, social issues were not
      Based on its analysis of the Project           147    perceived as a prominent feature of the investment during the
      documents, the Panel concludes that a                 EA process in 2003 because the TPP was not located in a
      large array of social issues and potential            residential community but rather in a relatively isolated location
      economic risks to the area's population,              behind an undeveloped beach, 6 kilometers from Vlora. There
      resulting from design, siting, and impacts,           did not appear to be major differences among stakeholder
No.                Issue / Finding                 Para   Comments/Actions
                                                   nos.

      were not considered in the Project's                groups, ethnic or class distinctions relevant to the power plant.
      preparation and EAs; this is not compliant          There was widespread agreement that Albania needed to
      with Bank policy.                                   increase its power generation capacity and to diversify its energy
      There was also no integration between               sources. There were no social groupings that would appear,
      biophysical and social studies and                  prima facie, to be relevant for the issue of power plant siting. The
      between Environmental Assessment and                only significant users of the area were fishermen and local
      economic and technical studies. In all              bathers who use the beach in the vicinity of the power plant site.
      these respects Management has failed to             Although there are good economic and technical justifications for
      ensure that the substance of OP 4.01 was            the location of the plant, broader consultations might have
      complied with in the preparation and                revealed differences in public opinion about the plant and its
      appraisal of the Vlora TPP.                         location on Vlora Bay and possibly flagged opposition to it. Wider
                                                          consultations could also have revealed local stakeholders'
                                                          visions of and aspirations for Vlora, including the role of tourism.
                                                          However, these observations only came to light in January 2005,
                                                          some eight months after signing of the Project Agreement and
                                                          well after the EA process had been completed. Management
                                                          acknowledges that these post EIA-issues would have been
                                                          better managed if the Project had established a public
                                                          information and outreach facility.
                                                          Actions: Management will urge KESH to increase engagement
                                                          with the residents of Vlora. Activities could include: (i)
                                                          establishment of a citizens advisory board; (ii) hiring of a full time
                                                          outreach specialist; (iii) development of outreach programs such
                                                          as visits to the plant by university students and school children. A
                                                          draft engagement plan is expected by October 30, 2009, with a
                                                          final plan expected by December 30, 2009.
                                                          Management is committed to strengthening the assessment of
                                                          social and cultural aspects of investments through application of
                                                          the EA policy as well as related social and operational policies.
                                                          Going forward, Management will seek to ensure that: (i) salient
                                                          social impacts are identified early in the Bank's due diligence; (ii)
                                                          negative impacts are managed and social opportunities are
                                                          developed; and (iii) the Bank supervises these aspects
                                                          throughout the Project cycle. To this end, Management is
                                                          clarifying the division of labor and responsibilities of social and
                                                          environmental technical staff with respect to the due diligence
                                                          and supervision. This is expected to be completed by March
                                                          2010.
                                                          With respect to consultation and disclosure, social specialists will
                                                          be tasked to ensure that the quality, scope and frequency of
                                                          public consultation are adequate and that they are well
                                                          documented. Social development staff will receive regular
                                                          training in this regard starting in the next two months.
                                                          Management also notes that improvement in the assessment of
                                                          social impacts of projects is an Action Item for the ECA Region
                                                          following the Board review of the Inspection Panel Report for the
                                                          Albania ICZM Project. Management will ensure that institutional
                                                          strengthening in this regard will also apply to major infrastructure
                                                          and energy projects to enhance their quality and sustainability
                                                          (action ongoing).
5.    Narta Lagoon and Bank Policy on              148-   Comment: Management notes the Panel's finding.
      Natural Habitats                             160    Action: No action needed.
      The Panel concludes that Management
      was correct in its determination that the
      Vlora TPP did not trigger OP 4.04. The
      Panel finds that there is no reason to
      anticipate that TPP will be harmful to
No.                 Issue / Finding                   Para   Comments/Actions
                                                      nos.

      natural habitats.
6.    Impacts on Air Quality                          161-   Comment: Management notes the Panel's finding with respect
      Emissions to the atmosphere from the            169    to the expected absence of significant risk to the health of local
      Vlora TPP have been calculated with due                residents and the community, or to the flora and fauna of the
      regard to the World Bank Pollution and                 Narta Lagoon protected area. Management wishes to clarify that
      Prevention Handbook. The model inputs                  the nature of the EPC contract means that performance is set at
      for the operational phase are appropriate.             the bid stage and design details (such as stack height) are
      However, no evidence can be found that                 determined thereafter.
      any attempt has been made to use                       Action: Management will report on progress by KESH regarding
      atmospheric dispersion modeling to                     regular monitoring of environmental parameters associated with
      optimize the height of the TPP stacks.                 Project operations, along with corresponding disclosure of
      The Panel finds that atmospheric                       monitoring data.
      emissions from Vlora TPP do not pose a
      significant risk of harm to either human
      population of Vlora or the floral and faunal
      populations of the Narta Lagoon.
7.    Impacts on the Marine Environment               170-   Comment: Management agrees with the Inspection Panel on
      The EIA is silent on the significance of        180    the need to ensure that the TPP has in place the correct
      potential impacts to the marine                        procedures for preventing "the potentially serious environmental
      environment during the construction                    impact of potential oil spills during fuel delivery." In regard to the
      phase. The EIA places responsibility on                Panel's view that "...the medium- and long-term risks to Vlora
      the EPC contractor to ensure minimal                   Bay marine environment and beaches from potential spills when
      environmental and social impact.                       fuel is offloaded are not minimized and are not planned to be
      However, the EIA recommends no                         minimized before operations may start...," Management would
      mechanism for ensuring EPC contractor                  like to clarify that the risks of oil spills were well-identified during
      compliance. There is no requirement for                Project preparation. Explicit references to oil spill risks ­ both
      approval of method statements and no                   during construction and operation ­ were made in the EIA of the
      standards that must be met have been                   Project, while management and mitigation measures were
      specified. The EIA is deficient in this                incorporated in the EMP. In turn, the EMP formed part of the
      regard.                                                bidding documents for the EPC Contract (Annex 5) to construct
                                                             the Vlora TPP. This is common practice in to ensure that the
      Additionally, the Panel finds that failure to          Contractor performs works and detailed engineering designs in
      give consideration in both the Final EIA               accordance with the EMP. The EMP explicitly requires the EPC
      and the Addendum to medium- and long-                  Contractor to prepare: (i) an Oil Spill Prevention Plan (to
      term risks associated with construction                minimize risks of spilling oil); and (ii) an Oil Spill Response Plan
      phase and the alternative ways of                      (to clean up oil spills if they occur despite preventive measures).
      delivering fuel to Vlora TPP in the                    In addition, the Project's legal documents include a specific
      operational phase is a serious                         provision requiring KESH to ensure the implementation of the
      shortcoming and renders the Final EIA                  EMP: "KESH shall take or cause to be taken, all measures
      non-compliant with the OP 4.01                         necessary for the carrying out of the EMP in a timely manner..."
      requirement that: "EA evaluates a
      project's potential environmental risks and            The Government of Albania and the Bank recognized that KESH
      impacts in its area of influence," where               did not have the necessary knowledge and skills required to
      `area of influence' is defined as the "area            oversee various environmental aspects of the Vlora TPP Project.
      likely to be affected by the Project,                  For that purpose, another separate consultancy focusing only on
      including all its ancillary aspects, such as           environmental issues was also financed under the technical
      power transmission corridors, pipelines..."            assistance component of the Power Sector Generation and
                                                             Restructuring Project. An Environmental Management Unit
      The Panel is concerned that, due to this               (EMU) was created in KESH to follow environmental aspects of
      deficiency in the Final EIA and its                    the Project, and since 2006, the Environmental Consultancy has
      Addendum as well as in the [Project                    provided specific assistance to this unit. An internationally known
      Appraisal Document], medium- and long-                 firm with specific expertise on oil spills was also brought in under
      term risks to the Vlora Bay marine                     sub-contract. A key task of the firm was to: "Review an oil spill
      environment and beaches from potential                 prevention and response plan to be prepared by EPC
      spills when fuel is offloaded are not                  Contractor."
      currently minimized and are not planned
      to be minimized before operations may                  Based on the progress of the works, starting in October 2008,
      start. The Project documents examined by               the Bank's Project team, along with its co-financiers, requested
      the Panel do not require the borrower to               KESH to provide the Oil Spill Prevention and Response plans.
No.               Issue / Finding                 Para   Comments/Actions
                                                  nos.

      incorporate counter-risk measures and              KESH thus requested its EPC Contractor at that time to begin
      monitor their effectiveness.                       preparation of the Oil Spill Prevention and Response plans. The
                                                         EPC Contractor submitted the Oil Spill Prevention plan in May
                                                         2009. The Environmental Consultant reviewed and provided
                                                         comments on the Oil Spill Prevention Plan. Management
                                                         believes that the engineering and construction of the off-shore
                                                         fuel facilities are of international standards and that oil spill risks
                                                         during fuel unloading are minimized. Management notes that the
                                                         Vlora TPP is expected to take 15 to 20 tanker deliveries annually
                                                         (assuming base load operations of around 80%).
                                                         As of September 3, 2009, the Oil Spill Prevention and Response
                                                         Plans for the on-shore installations of the Vlora TPP, including
                                                         equipment and containment structures, are in place. Regarding
                                                         the off-shore facilities, the Oil Spill Prevention Plan is in place,
                                                         while the Oil Spill Response Plan is being finalized and must be
                                                         in place before the plant is operational.
                                                         Environmental issues associated with power transmission lines
                                                         are addressed in the Project EIA.
                                                         Action: As the final offshore Oil Spill Response Plan is not yet
                                                         fully in place, the Bank will oversee the completion of the Plan in
                                                         advance of routine facility operation (estimated at present to be
                                                         early November 2009), as required by the Credit Agreement.
8.    Cumulative Impacts                          181-   Comment: Management acknowledges that the Project EIA
      The Panel finds that Bank staff should      194    ought to have been clearer with regard to coverage of the
      have insisted on a Sectoral EA and the             potential cumulative impacts of two generation units in addition
      associated cumulative effects analysis in          to the one unit co-financed by the Bank (thereby expanding the
      addition to the Project-specific                   Vlora TPP to the maximum 300 MW that could be
      Environmental Assessment.                          accommodated at the site). Management clarifies that while the
                                                         initial feasibility and siting studies carried out by the Government
      The Panel notes that the omission of               of Albania did examine both the 100 MW and the 300 MW
      cumulative impact assessment of possible           options, the Bank and its co-financiers considered the financial
      expansion of the Vlora TPP from the final          likelihood of additional units in the near to mid-term to be very
      EIA is not in accord with the Bank's own           low. Management notes this position is still valid nearly eight
      Guidelines for new thermal power                   years later.
      stations.
                                                         Despite the stated focus on only one unit, initial calculations of
                                                         air and water emissions from a 300 MW facility were carried out
                                                         during the EIA. Management acknowledges, however, that the
                                                         presentation of cumulative impact data on air and water was not
                                                         clearly highlighted in the final Project EIA, which contributed to
                                                         confusion. Management notes that updated calculations of air
                                                         emissions from a 300 MW unit have been provided by the KESH
                                                         environmental consultants based on ambient air quality
                                                         measurements taken before civil works commenced. These
                                                         calculations suggest that for a 300 MW facility, all key air
                                                         parameters (particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide and sulfur
                                                         dioxide) would be within allowable limits relative to the applicable
                                                         EU or World Bank guidelines. Thermal impacts on Vlora Bay
                                                         from the cooling water discharge of a 300 MW facility are
                                                         projected to be within allowable limits, as also noted by the
                                                         Panel.
                                                         Management believes that an EIA whose scope extends beyond
                                                         the TPP and its associated investments (fuel supply, cooling
                                                         water pipelines and transmission line) to include alternative sites
                                                         and/or nearby industrial or energy investments (real or
                                                         proposed), or other energy facilities in the Vlora area, was not
                                                         required to conform to OP 4.01. A detailed rationale is provided
                                                         in the Key Issues section and includes the lack of financial or
No.                Issue / Finding                   Para   Comments/Actions
                                                     nos.

                                                            economic linkages and the unconfirmed nature of such
                                                            investments.
                                                            Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this Inspection
                                                            Panel case will be incorporated into guidance to staff on
                                                            safeguards.

SOCIAL AND CULTURAL COMPLIANCE
9.    Assessment and Management of                   195-   Comment: Management acknowledges that a field survey of
      Cultural Property: Project Appraisal           226    cultural resources was not carried out during Project preparation
      The Panel finds that from the early                   and that it erred in suggesting that no sources existed regarding
      feasibility stages and up to Project                  cultural heritage in the area. Bank practice was to trigger OPN
      appraisal, the Bank did not seek to obtain            11.03 only when there was reason to suspect that the Project
      information on the presence and role of               could disturb archaeological remains or other culturally
      cultural endowments in the Vlora area.                significant monuments. As noted by the Panel, a supervision
      The Bank did not ensure that the studies              mission in 2006, which included a professionally qualified
      consider the likely risks and negative                archaeologist, determined that no archaeological remains were
      impacts of locating an industrial thermal             likely to be found there, and this has proven to be the case
      plant in an area dependent on cultural and            during plant excavation and construction.
      beach tourism. The resulting Project                  Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this Inspection
      concept and design overlooked these                   Panel case will be incorporated into guidance to staff on
      risks.                                                safeguards.
      Based on these findings, the Panel
      concludes that the Project preparation,
      including both the feasibility and EIA
      processes, and Project appraisal, did not
      comply with the requirements of OMS
      2.20 on the appraisal of projects, on risk
      analysis and with the procedural
      requirements of the Bank's Policy on
      Management of Cultural Property in Bank-
      Financed Projects (OPN 11.03).
      [I]t is the Panel's opinion that, in
      accordance with OPN 11.03, a brief
      reconnaissance survey should have been
      undertaken in the field by a specialist. The
      Panel finds that this was not done.
10.   Assessment and Management of                   247-   Comment: Management acknowledges the Panel's findings and
      Cultural Property: After Project               255    reiterates that as of September 2009 when the vast majority of
      Appraisal                                             excavations and civil works had been completed on site, no
      From its review of the Project documents,             chance findings of archaeological or cultural nature were
      the Panel observes that Management                    encountered in the site works, which affirms the expectation of
      narrowed its analysis to the Project's                the July 2006 mission.
      impact on the small patch of land (6                  With regard to the archaeological sites of Treport Cape/Aulona,
      hectares) covered by the TPP itself, rather           Orikum, Kanina Castle and Marmiroi Church, these are all
      than assessing the potential implications             located at some distance from the power plant, which is not
      of the TPP siting on the greater Vlora                visible from most of these locations. No roads, pipelines or
      area.                                                 transmission lines will traverse or pass near any of these sites.
      While the Panel acknowledges that this                No evidence suggesting that tourists will fail to visit these
      [July 2006 supervision] mission was sent              historical sites because of their proximity to the TPP has been
      in recognition of the absence of a                    cited by the Requesters or the Panel. Management believes that
      reconnaissance survey in an earlier                   factors such as road access, site improvements and the
      phase, the Panel notes that such a                    availability of amenities such as guides, museums and
      retrospective mission--carried out after              guidebooks will be more determining of tourist visitation than the
      the approval of the site by the                       presence of a power plant in the vicinity.
      Government and the Bank--does not                     Action: The Bank will continue to supervise the Project for any
      allow cultural property considerations to             chance finds of cultural property assets through Project closing.
No.                    Issue / Finding                   Para   Comments/Actions
                                                         nos.

          influence the TPP siting decision and its
          potential longer term impacts. The
          positive finding that during excavations for
          TPP's foundation no archaeological
          chance finds were identified removes the
          concern that the TPP footprint itself may
          forever cover significant archaeological
          relics, but does not eliminate the long-
          term risks and impacts that the presence
          and operations of the TPP bring to the
          larger Vlora Bay and its potential for
          cultural tourism development, as well as
          to the incomes and livelihoods of the local
          population. These risks and impacts are
          still to be addressed and mitigated.
11.       Lack of Social Assessment and                  227-   Comment: Please refer to Item 4 above.
          Absence of Social Risk Analysis                238    Action: Please refer to Item 4 above. Management will urge
          The Panel finds that a broad range of                 KESH to increase engagement with the residents of Vlora.
          social issues was not considered at all               Activities could include: (i) establishment of a citizens advisory
          during preparation and appraisal, and                 board; (ii) hiring of a full time outreach specialist; (iii)
          corresponding social and economic                     development of outreach programs such as visits to the plant by
          analyses were not integrated into the                 university students and school children. A draft engagement plan
          fabric of the Project. Management failed              is expected by October 30, 2009, with a final plan expected by
          to undertake the necessary sociological               December 30, 2009.
          analysis and risk analysis of the                     Management is committed to strengthening the assessment of
          Project's potential long-term impacts and             social and cultural aspects of investments through application of
          thus did not ensure compliance with                   the EA policy as well as related social and operational policies.
          OMS 2.20 on Project Appraisal.                        Going forward, Management will seek to ensure that: (i) salient
          The Panel finds that these policy                     social impacts are identified early in the Bank's due diligence; (ii)
          violations directly affected the decision             negative impacts are managed and social opportunities are
          about the Vlora TPP's location.                       developed; and (iii) the Bank supervises these aspects
          They deprived Management of the                       throughout the Project cycle. To this end, Management is
          understanding of what the presence of a               clarifying the division of labor and responsibilities of social and
          thermal plant and of its ancillaries may              environmental technical staff with respect to the due diligence
          entail in reducing the flow of cultural-              and supervision. This is expected to be completed by March
          and-beach tourists to Vlora Bay's                     2010.
          areas/assets, in reducing the area's                  With respect to consultation and disclosure, social specialists will
          productive activities and incomes, and                be tasked to ensure that the quality, scope and frequency of
          its potential for further development.                public consultation are adequate and that they are well
          The Panel also concludes that                         documented. Social development staff will receive regular
          Management is not in compliance with the              training in this regard starting in the next two months.
          Bank's requirements for carrying out a risk           Management also notes that improvement in the assessment of
          analysis and for incorporating                        social impacts of projects is an Action Item for the ECA Region
          precautionary approaches and measures                 following the Board review of the Inspection Panel Report for the
          to prevent and reduce risks. The absence              Albania ICZM Project. Management will ensure that institutional
          of a "formal risk analysis" as explicitly             strengthening in this regard will also apply to major infrastructure
          provided by OMS 2.20, and especially of               and energy projects to enhance their quality and sustainability
          the Project's medium and long-term social             (action ongoing).
          and economic risks to the local
          populations, left an important gap in the
          Project's design and left the local
          population unprotected against the long-
          term risks to its businesses and incomes.
12.       Omitted Analysis on Tourism                    239-   Comment: Management agrees with the Panel's finding:1 "The

      1
          Investigation Report para. 107.
No.                    Issue / Finding                  Para   Comments/Actions
                                                        nos.

          Contributions                                 246    actual size/footprint of the TPP is not a pristine natural area with
          [T]he Management Response states that                high potential to attract tourism. [Zverrneci Island and the Treport
          "regarding impacts on tourism potential,             headland and the larger part of the Vlora Bay shoreline] none of
          this is not an issue covered directly by             these locations will be immediately impacted by the TPP..." The
          Bank safeguard policies..." This is                  Panel finds, however, that there are risks that the `sense of
          clearly not a reason for omitting real life          place' of the Treport headland and Vlora Bay as a desirable
          impacts, since the Bank's projects are               tourist site remains at risk, because of the operations of the TPP
          subject not only to safeguard policies               and other proposed developments.2
          but to all operational policies. Social              Management acknowledges that there may be some impacts--
          impact risks and economic risks are                  localized and narrow in the Project area--for tourism. Because
          covered in such policies as OMS 2.20                 thermal power plants require proximity to waterways for quantity
          and OP/BP 10.04, both of which apply to              fuel transportation and considerable water mass for cooling
          the Project.                                         purposes, it is not uncommon that such plants are located close
          The Bank's Project rationale did not place           to the sea. A significant number of islands in the Mediterranean
          the Project in its surrounding social,               have built power plants on their coasts, but tourism advanced
          economic, and demographic context, and               rapidly nonetheless as a result, inter alia, of a reliable electricity
          left such risks outside of its purview.              supply.
                                                               Management acknowledges that some external costs related to
                                                               tourism were not taken into account in the Project's economic
                                                               analysis. However, such costs would not have materially altered
                                                               the overall economics of the Project, because they would most
                                                               likely be more than compensated by the benefits for tourism of
                                                               reliable power supply. In addition, Management would like to
                                                               clarify that, on an annualized basis, such costs would need to
                                                               exceed USD1.8 million for the Fier site to be selected over Vlora
                                                               B. Given the small footprint of the TPP and its lack of immediate
                                                               impacts on Vlora Bay, as the Panel acknowledges, it is unlikely
                                                               that potential losses from tourism revenue would be so high as to
                                                               justify the additional costs of constructing the plant at Fier.
                                                               Management also acknowledges that should further industrial
                                                               developments take place in the zone, tourism in the Treport area
                                                               may be affected. However, this is an issue that is addressed
                                                               through Albania's new territorial planning law.
                                                               Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this Inspection
                                                               Panel case will be conveyed to staff.

ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
13.       Economic Analysis of Alternatives             257-   Comment: Management concurs with the Panel's findings: "(i)
          The Panel finds that as a result of errors    283    atmospheric emissions do not pose a significant risk of harm to
          in the incorporation of levelized cost               either the human population of Vlora or the floral and faunal
          measures and improper accounting for                 populations of the Narta Lagoon"3 and (ii) the marine
          social and environmental impacts in the              environment will not be significantly affected by the operation of
          decision matrix, Management failed to                the plant's cooling system.4 It appears therefore, that the only
          comply with the requirements of OP 10.04             potential harm to fisheries would be a potential oil spill of such an
          and OMS 2.20 in terms of preparing an                extent that it would irreparably damage fisheries in Vlora Bay.
          economic appraisal that identifies and               The Panel's analysis estimates damage to fisheries at an
          quantifies all costs, including opportunity          annualized USD843,000.5 Management wishes to note that this
          costs, associated with the Project.                  amount of damages would require a worst-case scenario (e.g.,
                                                               collision between large tankers) rather than anything associated
                                                               with TPP routine offloading of fuel at the single point mooring
                                                               location. In addition, for these annualized costs to occur, a worst
                                                               case remediation scenario should also be assumed (i.e., the oil

      2
        Ibid.
      3
        Investigation Report, para. 169, page 40.
      4
        Investigation Report, paras. 174, 175.
      5
        Investigation Report para. 296.
No.                 Issue / Finding                   Para   Comments/Actions
                                                      nos.

                                                             spill would not be cleaned up for many years.)
                                                             Regarding the relative positions of the Vlora B and Fier sites, if
                                                             such an externality is to be taken into account, Management
                                                             would like to clarify that oil spill risks would apply equally to the
                                                             Fier site and to Vlora B, as both would use similar oil fueling
                                                             facilities. Therefore, the site selection evaluation would not have
                                                             been affected.
                                                             Given the Project's design to: (i) minimize oil spill risks (Oil Spill
                                                             Prevention Plan); and (ii) mitigate any remaining risks (Oil Spill
                                                             Response Plan), Management believes that the Project's
                                                             economic analysis correctly placed little value on the externality
                                                             costs of damaged fisheries.
                                                             Management notes that the Panel's report on the economic
                                                             analysis leading to the selection of the Vlora B site analyzes ex-
                                                             post the alternative of constructing the same TPP in Fier (the site
                                                             that came second in order of preference in the consultant's siting
                                                             study), but remains inconclusive on whether this site should have
                                                             been preferred on the basis of the economic cost-benefit
                                                             analysis. Management would like to clarify certain issues related
                                                             to the Panel's analysis of Fier, which tend to indicate that even
                                                             today--with the benefit of hindsight and knowledge added
                                                             compared to the time of the Project's appraisal--on the basis of
                                                             economic analysis, the Vlora site would still likely be the
                                                             preferred site. The Panel makes certain adjustments to re-
                                                             evaluate the levelized costs calculations presented in the siting
                                                             study comparing the Fier and Vlora B sites. In that regard,
                                                             Management wishes to note the following. Firstly, the fuel
                                                             offloading facility built for Vlora B would have also been
                                                             necessary for the Fier plant. Fier is not on the coast, therefore
                                                             sufficient fuel would still need to be transported to the site
                                                             (requiring a lengthy pipeline with associated potential for
                                                             environmental impacts during construction). Given the proximity
                                                             of Fier to Vlora Bay and the lack of alternative nearby ports,
                                                             there is a high likelihood that fuel facilities similar to the existing
                                                             ones would be needed for Fier. The adjustment of the capital
                                                             cost for Vlora B should therefore also apply to the Fier option.
                                                             Secondly, when in 2007 KESH approached its EPC Contractor
                                                             to negotiate a discount for the possible removal of the off-shore
                                                             fuel facilities from the Project (considering the Petrolifera
                                                             alternative), the EPC Contractor indicated that the total Contract
                                                             value would be reduced only by about USD3 million (not USD6
                                                             million noted in the Panel's report, page 66). Given the above,
                                                             the adjustments in the Panel's report lead to an overstatement of
                                                             the costs of Vlora B. Nevertheless, even with those adjustments,
                                                             the Vlora B site is clearly the better choice on the basis of
                                                             `internalized' costs.
                                                             Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this Inspection
                                                             Panel case will be conveyed to staff.
14.   Fier Site                                       284-   Comment: Management notes the Panel's finding of
      Given the Energy Sector Study                   286;   compliance.
      recommendation not to rehabilitate the old      287-   Action: No action needed.
      Fier facilities, the decision in the analysis   293
      of the TPP to not analyze rehabilitation of
      the Fier plant(s) as an alternative to the
      proposed Project is deemed to be
      consistent with OMS 2.20, para 12.
No.                Issue / Finding                 Para   Comments/Actions
                                                   nos.
15.   Assessment of Externalities                  294-   Comment: See items 12 and 13 above, as well as Key Issues
      Based on the Panel's investigation, it is    306    section on the Economic Evaluation of Alternatives.
      apparent that there was reasonable                  Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this Inspection
      evidence for Management to be                       Panel case will be conveyed to staff.
      concerned about the long-term risks and
      adverse effects that a TPP at Vlora B site
      would impose on Vlora's fisheries and
      tourism industries. The Panel finds that
      the Management's economic analysis did
      not account for important externalities
      which may have a material impact on the
      levelized cost analysis. Consequently, the
      Panel concludes that the economic
      assessment by Management does not
      comply with OP 10.04 that states: "the
      economic evaluation of Bank-financed
      projects takes into account any domestic
      and cross-border externalities."
CONSULTATION, PARTICIPATION, AND DISCLOSURE
16.   Design and Facilitation of Public            333-   Comment: The Government held three public consultations on
      Consultations                                352    the TPP. The first consultation in late October 2002 focused on
      The Panel concludes that through a                  the results of the siting study and preceded the Bank's decision
      deficient EA process, Management                    to proceed with formal Project preparation. Newspaper articles
      failed to ensure meaningful public                  describe the consultation as including local and regional
      consultations for Project, which is not in          officials, academics, NGOs, intellectuals and others. The
      compliance with OP 4.01.                            discussion raised questions on technology, local impacts and
                                                          alternative sites.
      Based on review of the Project timeline
      and analysis of Project documents, and              The Project EIA met the minimum 2-stage requirement for
      taking into account that the affected               consultation under OP 4.01; at the early stage (Terms of
      parties had only a minimal involvement              Reference for the EIA) and thereafter the Draft EIA Report
      in critical decisions regarding the                 stage. These consultations were carried out respectively on
      Project, the Panel does not agree with              April 2, 2003 and September 3, 2003. As noted in the
      Management's view that under Bank                   Investigation Report timeline, the EA was first made available
      Policy such minimal involvement of                  to affected stakeholders starting on July 23, 2003 (Draft),
      affected parties after critical decisions           followed by the posting of the final EIA that October, and the
      regarding Project have been made                    EIA Addendum in January 2004. The end of the disclosure
      constitutes "consultation and disclosure            period for EBRD on these same Project EIA documents was
      of information ... during project                   June 7, 2004.
      preparation in a manner satisfactory to             Management acknowledges likely deficiencies in meaningful
      the Bank...."                                       engagement with the public in the site selection process, which
      The Panel concludes that Management                 prevented: (i) a sound understanding of societal viewpoints on
      failed to ensure adequate notification to           alternative sites and siting criteria; (ii) feedback from the
      the Project affected people and local               residents of the Vlora region regarding their views on the
      NGOs and to secure their participation in           preferred site in their community, and as a result thereafter; (iii)
      consultation meetings as required under             a more complete discussion of alternatives in the Project EIA.
      OP 4.01.                                            Bank staff did encourage the Government of Albania to
                                                          examine other potential sites beyond the already preferred
                                                          location in Vlora, and this approach was accepted by the
                                                          Government in the siting and feasibility studies.
                                                          Action: Management action in supporting Albania's
                                                          implementation of the Aarhus Convention is noted below in Item
                                                          19.
17.   Disclosure of Documents                      353-   Comment: Management acknowledges that the Terms of
      The Meeting Notes of the September 3,        355    Reference for the April 2003 EIA consultation were not
      2003 meeting state that the draft EIA was           distributed until the time of the meeting and that this was a
      disseminated on July 20, 2003. However,             shortcoming. Regarding the September 2003 consultation,
                                                          Management notes the Draft was disclosed at several locales in
No.                 Issue / Finding                    Para   Comments/Actions
                                                       nos.

      this single instance of public notification is          advance of the meeting, and timely updates were made available
      insufficient to meet the requirements of                thereafter. This consultation took place two months before the
      OP 4.01. Overall, the Panel finds that                  Project Appraisal date of November 10, 2003, and six months
      Management failed to ensure satisfactory                before Board presentation. The Press Release for the approved
      public disclosure of Project information to             Project was widely circulated.
      interested local area stakeholders.                     Management believes the long period of disclosure of the Project
                                                              EIA and wide coverage of the TPP Project in the media at a time
                                                              of electricity disruptions provided a number of opportunities for
                                                              concerned stakeholders to know about the Project and access
                                                              documentation.
                                                              Action: No action needed. Lessons learned from this
                                                              Inspection Panel case will be incorporated into guidance to
                                                              staff on safeguards.
18.   Implementation of Public                         356-   Comment: Management notes that opposition to broad industrial
      Consultations Throughout Project                 377    development in Vlora became the banner of one of the political
      Implementation                                          parties, a factor that may have contributed to the increase in
      The Panel finds that, despite increasing                public protests. Public opposition to the TPP emerged some ten
      public concern and political contention                 months after Board approval (March 16, 2004), as some civil
      around the Project, Management failed to                society organizations began to mobilize against industrial
      ensure that the Project-area population                 development in Vlora in general, and especially with respect to
      and local NGOs were meaningfully                        the proposed Petrolifera oil terminal. In sum, opposition to the
      consulted throughout the preparation and                power plant was influenced by factors that go beyond the plant
      implementation of the Project on                        itself.
      environmental, social, cultural, tourism                Management notes that the Bank did reply to letters from the
      and health related issues that affect them.             Requesters and other interested parties in good faith and in a
      This is not in compliance with OP 4.01                  timely and responsive fashion.
      and OP/BP 10.04.                                        Management acknowledges that these post EIA-issues would
                                                              have been better managed if the Project had established a public
                                                              information and outreach facility.
                                                              Action: Management notes that improvement in the social
                                                              assessment of projects is an Action Item for the ECA Region
                                                              following Board review of the Inspection Panel Report for the
                                                              Albania Integrated Coastal Zone Management and Clean-Up
                                                              Project. Management will ensure that institutional strengthening
                                                              in this regard will also apply to major infrastructure and energy
                                                              projects.
                                                              Beginning in October 2009, Management will implement a newly
                                                              revised Communications Strategy in the World Bank Office in
                                                              Tirana, Albania. The new strategy includes inter alia: (i) a system
                                                              for proactive and time-bound responses to complaints from
                                                              communities, civil society and the private sector; (ii) increased
                                                              supervision of government-led consultation processes during
                                                              project preparation and implementation; and (iii) annual briefings
                                                              to the relevant Parliamentary committees on project
                                                              implementation and policy reform issues.
19.   International Environmental                      322-   Comment: Management notes the Panel's findings rely on the
      Obligations under OP 4.01                        332    findings of the Aarhus Compliance Committee. As the Panel did
      Panel finds that Management did not                     not articulate the basis for its conclusions of non-compliance on
      ensure that Project preparation activities              this matter, other than the aforementioned reference to the
      complied with the consultation and public               findings of the Aarhus Compliance Committee, this Report has
      participation requirements of the Aarhus                tried to address the salient points raised by that
      Convention. This does not comply with                   Committee.Management acknowledges concerns by the Aarhus
      OP 4.01.                                                Compliance Committee regarding documentation on the
                                                              invitation and noticing process on the two Project EIA
                                                              consultations (April and September 2003) but also notes the long
                                                              disclosure period of the EIA documents mentioned earlier, which
                                                              should have at least mitigated against some of these
No.   Issue / Finding   Para   Comments/Actions
                        nos.

                               acknowledged deficiencies. Management also notes that the
                               Press Release on Board approval of the Project was widely
                               referenced by national media, yet public objection to the Project
                               only emerged nearly a year later.
                               In addition, specific guidance for IFIs to support partner countries
                               in meeting the obligations of the UN ECE Conventions (including
                               Aarhus) were lacking at the time of Project preparation, and are
                               still awaited. This absence of practical guidance was found to be
                               an obstacle to EBRD's role in supporting Albania by the EBRD
                               Independent Recourse Mechanism review (April 2008) regarding
                               the EBRD proportion of financing of the Vlora TPP.
                               Management notes that the Bank has responded to the invitation
                               by the Compliance Committee of the Aarhus Convention "to
                               provide advice and assistance to the Party" (i.e., Albania) with
                               respect to enhancing compliance. The Bank has approved a
                               USD370,000 IDF capacity-building grant for Strengthening
                               Aarhus Convention Implementation for Albania, which will begin
                               in September 2009 and build on similar but smaller efforts by the
                               Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
                               Development objectives of the IDF activity include:
                                   Build and/or improve the capacity of the Aarhus Center, the
                                   regional environmental agencies, civil society, and other
                                   stakeholders in understanding the Aarhus Convention
                                   requirements and in implementing an updated local Aarhus
                                   Center Strategy and Action Plan;
                                   Enhance the interaction between civil society and public
                                   authorities with respect to public participation and access to
                                   justice in government decision-making regarding national
                                   and transboundary environment matters, fostering improved
                                   compliance with the relevant provisions of the Convention;
                                   and
                                     Improve civil society's watchdog role, by engaging it in a
                                     constructive manner with environment-related Government
                                     planning processes, through improved monitoring of
                                     guidelines and requirements set forth in the Convention.
                               In addition, one of the action items for Albania was improvement
                               in its environmental regulatory framework (i.e.,
                               amendments/completion of the existing environmental laws or
                               drafting of new ones) to make them compliant with the Aarhus
                               Convention provisions.
                               Albania's new Law on Territorial Planning, which has been
                               supported by a number of donors (Council of Europe
                               Development Bank, USAID and the World Bank), including
                               through dialogue on policy-based lending and an investment
                               project, marks a significant advance in how territorial planning
                               will be managed in Albania in the future. The new law contains
                               major enhancements in the area of transparency, disclosure and
                               public consultation. The law significantly advances public
                               notification of planning actions under consideration. One of the
                               hallmarks of the new law is the establishment of an internet-
                               enabled "Planning Register," along with conventional media for
                               public disclosure. The law establishes the Register as the place
                               where local, regional and national governments post proposed
                               as well as approved planning decisions. This includes new
                               spatial plans, development applications and approvals, and
                               national actions pertaining to territorial planning.
                               Action: The Bank will continue to support the Government of
No.                 Issue / Finding                   Para   Comments/Actions
                                                      nos.

                                                             Albania on the IDF-supported Strengthening Aarhus Convention
                                                             Implementation for Albania capacity building project, which will
                                                             extend through fiscal year 2011.
                                                             The Bank will develop and deliver in spring 2010 a training
                                                             module for Bank staff on assisting partner governments in
                                                             meeting their international treaty obligations, including a module
                                                             on practical implementation, with written guidance, of two UN
                                                             ECE Conventions (Aarhus and Espoo).
      SECOND REQUEST FOR INSPECTION ON
      INTEGRATED COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT
      AND CLEAN-UP PROJECT

20.   Delineation of Coastal Zones                    378-   Comment: Management agrees with the Panel's finding.
      The Panel notes that neither the threefold      397    Action: No action needed.
      division of the Albanian coastline nor the
      determination of the boundaries between
      them was made by the World Bank. In
      using these divisions for its Integrated
      Coastal Zone Management Project, the
      Bank was following an established
      practice that had been accepted for
      almost a decade by the United Nations
      Agencies and since 2002 by the Albanian
      Council of Ministers. [...T]he Panel finds
      no policy violation in the Bank's decision
      to finance the Integrated Coastal Zone
      Management and Clean-Up Project as a
      distinct project in the south coastal region,
      as requested by the borrower.
                                                                     Management Report and Recommendation


                                                 ANNEX 2
                                 AIR EMISSIONS MODELING
       (KESH Environmental Progress Report Update, August 2009, Section 3 on Air Quality)

As required by the scope of works PB Power has undertaken a dispersion modelling exercise on behalf of
KESH, to evaluate the environmental and health impacts of the 97 MWe CCGT plant. This exercise was
undertaken in late 2007 / early 2008 with the information detailed in the last progress report issued by
PBP.

The modelling undertaken has included consideration of emissions of the principle pollutant gases that
will be produced by the plant in day to day operation. Consideration was given to the emission of nitrogen
dioxide (NO2) sulphur dioxide (SO2) and particulate matter (PM10) by the plant and the subsequent
impact of the plants operation to overall air quality in the surrounding area.

The assessment of the impact on air quality due to emissions from the plant was based on the predicted
changes of the ground level concentrations of pollutants considered with the predicted ground level
concentrations compared to European emissions standards laid down in the Air Quality Directive
(Directive 99/30/EC).

In considering the impact of the proposed plant and the likely ground level concentrations that will be
encountered when the plant commences operation in 2009 PBP considered the background ambient air
quality in the vicinity of the project site which has been monitored by KESH for the years 2004 to 2005
for NO2 and SO2. Consideration was given to both long and short term pollutant concentrations of these
pollutants.

A conservative view of the operation of the plant was adopted for the modelling undertaken so that a
"worst case" was assessed and presented. The result of using this pessimistic approach was to ensure that
the absolute maximum predicted impact within the potential operating regime of the plant was
considered. This ensured that there was a "factor of safety" built into the air quality assessment, giving a
high degree of confidence that the actual impacts will be less than those presented in the assessment. To
ensure that a worst case was considered it was assumed that the plant operates at full load throughout the
year which will in practice not occur as the plant will in fact operate during some periods at reduced load
and will also have outages for maintenance during which there will be no operation.

The dispersion modelling was undertaken using Industrial Source Complex model (ISC-3) which has
been validated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the USA, the Environment Agency of
the United Kingdom and numerous other environmental authorities across the world.

The meteorological data used for the modelling exercise was that from the mobile station at the site,
supplied by KESH. The data periods considered were the years 2004 and 2005. To allow for the data's
use in the ISC -3 model however it was necessary to supplement the data collected by KESH with that of
the nearest met station that allows for the calculation of stability classes and mixing heights etc. The
nearest met station was found to be located at Kerkyra (Corfu), Greece and it was the data from this site
for the years 2004 and 2005 that was used to supplement the KESH data. This is an approach which has
been agreed to by the World Banks independent air quality assessor as being appropriate for the purposes
of the modelling assessment.

The windroses for the data collected by KESH in 2004 and 2005 can be seen in Figure 1 and 2 below.




                                                     39
Albania




                  FIGURE 1
          WINDROSE FOR THE SITE (2004)




                  FIGURE 2
          WINDROSE FOR THE SITE (2005)




                       40
                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


The results of the modelling undertaken were compared to the relevant EU and World Bank / IFC
standards. It was found that the plant was not predicted to generate exceedences of the various ambient air
quality standards. Key results were as follows

        The annual average NO2 predicted for the CCGT plant for the worst case year was 1.8 g/m3.
        This equates to 4.5 per cent of the EU air quality guideline of 40 g/m3with the maxima
        occurring at 5.3 km to the north-east of the site.


        The worst case 19th highest hourly ground level concentrations for NO2 were predicted to be
        32.7 g/m3 for the CCGT. This equates to 16.3 per cent of the EU guidelines of 200 g/m3 with
        the plume grounding some 5.3 km to the north-east of the site.

        The worst case predicted annual average SO2 concentrations for the plant was 2.7 g/m3
        equivalent to 3.4 per cent of the World Bank guideline (there is no EU guideline for annual SO2).

        The 25th highest hourly value for SO2 produced by the CCGT plant of 58.2 g/m3. This equates
        to 16.6 per cent of the 350 g/m3 EU guideline. The plume was found to ground 5.3 km to the
        north-east of the stack, in an area of unpopulated, mountainous terrain.

        The annual particulates concentration, for the CCGT were found to be no greater than 2.8 g/m3,
        less than 7.0 per cent of the EU guideline of 40 g/m3, with the maximum being located
        approximately 7.0 km to the north-east of the site.

        The 35th highest 24 hour maximum ground level concentrations for PM10s were predicted to be
        just 7.1 g/m3, with the maximum some 5.3 km to the north-east of the site. This value represents
        less than 14.2 per cent of the EU guideline of 50 g/m3.

        In all cases even when the background air quality recorded by KESH in the vicinity of the Vlorë
        plant is added to the worst case predictions of the model the EU ambient air quality guidelines
        would not come close to being exceeded.

Modelling of the second option, three CCGT units as was required by the original scope of works, again
shows that the plant would operate within the requirements of the EU Air Quality Directive even when
the worst case maximum background concentrations recorded by KESH are added to the model
predictions.

It was concluded that neither the operation of the single CCGT or a 3 unit plant would in isolation result
in exceedences of the relevant guidelines with the maximum values occurring in the largely uninhabited
mountains to the north east of the site.




                                                    41
Albania


                                            ANNEX 3
                                          PHOTOGRAPHS




                                  Photo 1. TPP from Vlora Bay




      Photo 2. TPP inside facility area                 Photo 3. New transmission line




                                              42
                                          Management Report and Recommendation




   Photo 4. Continuous air monitoring station near stack




Photo 5. Readout of air monitoring station in operator room
         (indicative since plant not yet operational)




                            43
Albania




          Photo 6. Mobile air monitoring station; data used to calibrate modeling




                    Photo 7. Spill containment around oil storage tank




                                            44
                                                   Management Report and Recommendation




Photo 8. Oil pipeline hook-up at plant (valves and spill containment at base)




 Photo 9. New buoy for securing tanker to off-load fuel; plant in distance




                                     45
Albania




                   Photo 10. Old oil terminal (not part of project)




          Photo 11. Vlora city beach (north of city center) on a hot Sunday




                                         46
                                                           Management Report and Recommendation




Photo 12. Vlora city beach (north of city center); some water quality and maintenance concerns




               Photo 13. Vlora city beach (further north towards soda factory)




                                             47
Albania




          Photo 14. Fishing harbor next to TPP




           Photo 15. Vlora city ferry terminal




                           48
                                                          Management Report and Recommendation




                       Photo 16. Beach south of Vlora city center




Photo 17. Coastal area further south of Vlora on the other side of the Karaburun Peninsula




                                           49
