 

                                                                 55634

         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                  International Development Association




                      PROGRESS REPORT
         TO THE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTIONS ON THE
      IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
                     IN RESPONSE TO THE
        INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT ON THE




                              ALBANIA

    POWER SECTOR GENERATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                   (IDA Credit No. 3872-ALB)




                             June 22, 2010




 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

                                         Abbreviations and Acronyms

BP                Bank Procedures
CEMS              Continuous Emission Monitoring System
CCGT              Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine
EA                Environmental Assessment
ECA               Europe and Central Asia Region
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
ICZM              Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA               International Development Association
IDF               Institutional Development Fund
IPN               Inspection Panel
KESH              Korporata Electroenergjikite Shqiptare (Albanian Power Corporation)
MOE               Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and Forests
MW                Megawatt
NGO               Nongovernmental organization
OMS               Operational Manual Statement
OP                Operational Policy
OPN               Operational Policy Note
TPP               Thermal electric power plant
UNECE             United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
USD               United States Dollar


                 List of Operational Policies and Operational Manual Statements

OMS 2.20          Project Appraisal
OP/BP 4.01        Environmental Assessment
OP/BP 4.04        Natural Habitats
OP/BP 10.04       Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations
OPN 11.03         Management of Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects
OP/BP 13.05       Project Supervision




                                                           ii 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

                                                                Contents



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ..................................................................................................................... iv
I.        INTRODUCTION......................................................................................................................... 1
II.       STATUS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................................... 2
III.      STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN ..................... 2
IV.       CONCLUDING REMARKS....................................................................................................... 7


Annexes

Annex A.             Summary of Progress on Management Action Plan
Annex B.             Photographs ­ Energy and Environmental Center at Vlora TPP




                                                                      iii 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

                                                               EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Albania's economic development has been adversely impacted by shortages in electricity supply.
This has consistently been highlighted as a major impediment to business. Albania's electricity
needs, furthermore, are supplied almost solely by hydropower, which suffers during drought. In
response to this situation, the World Bank along with other International Financial Institutions
agreed to finance a 100 MW thermal electric power plant at a site in an industrial zone near
Vlora, selected by the Government following a siting study that addressed six alternatives.

The Project was approved by the Board in April 2004 and became effective in January 2005. The
World Bank is providing an IDA Credit of USD25 million or just over 20 percent of the
USD123.3 million total cost of the Project (with the balance financed by the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank.) Civil works for the
Project started in August 2007, and the plant is now in the commissioning stage, with
commercial operations expected to commence by early to mid-2011.1 The Project uses
Combined-Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) technology for power generation, which achieves
significantly higher efficiency than other options and produces very low air emissions.

In May 2007 the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection concerning the Albania
Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project. The Requesters expressed a number of
concerns regarding the Bank's compliance with its Operational Policies. After deeming the
Request eligible for inspection and conducting an investigation, on August 7, 2009 the Panel
issued its report outlining the findings of its investigation. Management considered these
findings and issued its Report and Recommendations which, along with the Panel's findings,
were discussed at a meeting of the Board on October 22, 2009. Taking into account Executive
Directors' comments and staff explanations, a revised set of Management actions was issued on
November 19, 2009. This Progress Report meets the Bank's commitment to update the Board on
actions taken following Board discussion, and reflects progress through the end of May 2010.

The Report notes good progress in all key action areas: (i) Project oil spill prevention and
response equipment and plans are now in place with training ongoing; (ii) a continuous
emissions monitoring system is installed and will begin reporting to the public when plant
operations commence; (iii) no chance finds of archeological or cultural value have been found
since the Board discussion; (iv) the utility company (KESH) has taken solid steps to further
engage the public; (v) further assistance is being provided to help Albania meet its commitments
for public consultation under the Aarhus Convention; (vi) social assessment in the Europe and
Central Asia (ECA) region has been significantly strengthened; (vii) staff awareness of borrower
country international obligations has improved with training and guidance; (viii) no Category A
project has gone to the Board requesting a waiver of the provisions of OP 4.01 regarding a
conflict of interest on the Environmental Impact Assessment since October 22, 2009; (ix)
external communications and response by the World Bank office in Tirana has been improved;
                                                            
1
  Technical problems have developed, most notably a gap at one of the joints in the cooling water intake pipe which
led to significant clogging of the line with sand and debris. To allow further component testing, a temporary bypass
pipe for cooling water is now in place, which will function until the main cooling water intake pipe is repaired or
replaced. Due to these issues, full commercial operations have been delayed from the end of 2009 projection that
was mentioned in the Management Report, although there are no negative consequences on Operational Policy
compliance.


                                                                       iv 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

and (x) safeguards lessons learned from this Inspection Panel case have been shared with staff.
Management believes that satisfactory progress has been made in implementing the Action Plan
and a subsequent Progress Report is not necessary.




                                                           v 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

I.            INTRODUCTION

1.      Albania's economic development has been adversely impacted by shortages in electricity
supply. This has consistently been highlighted as a major impediment to business. Albania's
electricity needs, furthermore, are supplied almost solely by hydropower, which suffers during
drought. With the climate in Albania projected to be significantly warmer and drier in the
coming decades, hydropower will likely face further constraints. 

2.       In response to this situation, the World Bank along with other International Financial
Institutions agreed to finance a 100 MW thermal electric power plant at a site in an industrial
zone near Vlora, selected by the Government following a siting study that addressed six
alternatives. The Project was approved by the Board in April 2004 and became effective in
January 2005. The World Bank is providing an IDA Credit of USD25 million or just over 20
percent of the USD123.3 million total cost of the Project (with the balance financed by the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank). Civil
works for the Project started in August 2007, and the plant is now in the commissioning stage,
with commercial operations expected to commence by early to mid-2011. The Project uses
CCGT technology for power generation, which achieves significantly higher efficiency than
other options and produces very low air emissions.  

3.      In May 2007 the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection concerning the
Albania Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project. The Requesters expressed a number
of concerns regarding the Bank's compliance with its Operational Policies. After deeming the
Request eligible for inspection and conducting an investigation, on August 7, 2009 the Panel
issued its report outlining the findings of its investigation. Management considered these
findings and issued its Report and Recommendations which, along with the Panel's findings,
were discussed at a meeting of the Board on October 22, 2009. Taking into account Executive
Directors' comments and staff explanations, a revised set of Management actions was issued on
November 19, 2009. This Progress Report meets the Bank's commitment to update the Board on
actions taken following Board discussion, and reflects progress through the end of May 2010. 

4.     The Progress Report addresses the implementation of the Management Action Plan in
reference to the Inspection Panel review of the Bank-financed Albania Power Sector Generation
and Restructuring Project. The Report provides details on the actions which are subject to
monitoring in response to the Board discussion. A summary of the progress on these actions
(through May 31, 2010) is included as Annex A.

5.      Following an update on the general implementation of the Project, information is
provided on progress on ten key topics addressed by the Management Action Plan.2 The first
four are Project-specific issues: (i) finalizing Project oil spill prevention and response measures;
(ii) monitoring emissions from plant operations; (iii) continuing management of cultural property
after Project appraisal; and (iv) bolstering utility company engagement with the public. Progress
on strengthening Albania's engagement with stakeholders more broadly is addressed through: (v)
improving compliance with international environmental obligations. Progress on a final set of

                                                            
2
  Annex A of this Progress Report provides a summary of progress on the Management Action Plan organized along
the main issues presented in Table 1 of the Management Report.


                                                               1 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

five issues relates to improving Bank operational performance: (vi) strengthening social
assessment in the ECA region, (vii) improving staff awareness of borrower country international
obligations, (viii) avoiding potential conflict of interest on Environmental Impact Assessment for
Category A projects, (ix) improving external communications and response by the World Bank
office in Tirana, and (x) sharing safeguards lessons learned from this Inspection Panel case with
staff.

II.      STATUS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

6.      Commissioning of the plant (i.e., testing of key components) began in summer 2009,
prior to the expected full commercial operation which was envisaged in the Management Report
to take place by the end of November 2009. Technical problems have developed, most notably a
gap at one of the joints in the cooling water intake pipe which led to significant clogging of the
line with sand and debris. This prevented critical testing and commissioning of the steam turbine.
To allow further component testing, a temporary bypass pipe for cooling water is now in place
which will function until the main cooling water intake pipe is repaired or replaced.
Consequently, it is now planned that the plant will be fully operational by early to mid 2011. An
extension of the closing date of the Project is in process, which will provide continued Bank
supervision into the operational stage.

7.       While not directly linked to the Project, land use planning issues in the greater Vlora area
were a concern of the Requesters. As noted in the Management Report, a number of donors
(including the World Bank) provided support to Albania on its Territorial Planning Law, and an
update in this regard is of interest. Even before approval of the new Territorial Planning Law, the
Government together with the Municipality of Vlora launched the preparation of a Regulatory
Plan for the city. The various stages in preparing the plan have been publicized and local
stakeholders have been consulted on several occasions, the most recent being early April 2010.
The draft plan was completed in May and consultations are ongoing, with the expectation that
the planning process will continue (reflecting necessary revisions) towards the approval process
in fall 2010.

III.     STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

Project-Specific Issues

Finalizing Project oil spill prevention and response measures

8.     At the time of the Board discussion, the oil spill prevention and response plans for on-
shore operations of the Vlora Thermal Electric Power Plant (TPP), including equipment and
containment structures, were in place. The offshore oil spill response plan (including the
procurement of offshore oil spill containment equipment) was not yet in place, and the Bank
agreed to oversee completion of these crucial items in advance of commercial operation. Sound
planning is necessary to ensure protection of offshore waters and the Narta lagoon.

9.      Good progress has been made on the above, and the task is almost fully complete. The
draft final Oil Spill Contingency Plan focusing on offshore concerns was prepared by OSRP
Limited in November 2009. KESH established an inter-ministerial Task Force, which oversaw
preparation of an Action Plan for implementation of the oil spill prevention and response

                                                           2 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

measures, as entities beyond KESH have roles to play. KESH has implemented organizational
elements (such as establishing chains of command and communication) as well as physical
elements (especially the acquisition of offshore containment equipment). Procurement of the
latter ­ including protective booms, absorbents and portable skimmers ­ is now complete and the
equipment was delivered in late May 2010, with the Plan now considered adopted. Final training
of staff by international experts on this set of equipment is currently planned for mid to late July
2010.

10.     KESH/Vlora TPP has hired two vessels from local companies as part of prevention and
response: one for normal operational assistance during fuel unloading operations, and a second
with the ability to deploy the offshore containment equipment in the case of an unexpected
release. KESH also now has arrangements in place with the Coast Guard for any more
catastrophic accident given its capacity to respond to larger emergencies. Management will
continue to oversee the full implementation of oil spill response planning and management
measures until Project closure.

Monitoring emissions from plant operations

11.     Emissions to the atmosphere from the Vlora TPP are anticipated to be well below
applicable European Union and Albanian standards, and Management agreed to report on
progress by KESH with regards to emissions monitoring and corresponding disclosure to the
public. A Continuous Emission Monitoring System (CEMS) has been installed to sample stack
gases; the principal means for acquiring core data to ensure compliance. As noted earlier, the
plant is not operational at this time. Once the plant commences routine operations, emissions
information on both air and water quality will be collected and analyzed to spot any deviations in
emissions that could negatively impact ambient air quality and marine waters. Emissions data
will be made available routinely to the public on the KESH website. As agreed to by KESH, the
"Eco Watch" civil society organization will pay special attention to any potential risk by the
Vlora TPP on the ambient environment of Vlora.3 One party to Eco Watch is the Regional
Council of Vlora, which has agreed to also inform the public on local television on plant activity
and environmental performance and management. The most recent meeting of the Eco Watch
group (including KESH and the Vlora TPP) was held in Vlora on March 16, 2010. Furthermore,
the Vlora TPP now has a full time staff engineer on site devoted to environmental management,
compliance and education.

Continuing management of cultural property after Project appraisal

12.     At the time of the Board discussion, the vast majority of excavation and civil works at the
Vlora TPP site had been completed. No chance finds of archaeological or cultural nature relative
to OPN 11.034 had been encountered to that point, nor had roads, pipelines or transmission lines
been located in such a way as to negatively impact known archaeological sites which are located
at a distance from the Vlora TPP. The Bank agreed to continue to supervise the Project for any
"chance finds" of cultural property assets through Project closing. Management can report that
no such chance finds have been found in the intervening time. As the balance of civil works
                                                            
3
 It includes local NGOs, the Regional Council of Vlora, the Vlora Chamber of Commerce and University of Vlora.
4
 OPN 11.03 was in force through Project preparation (rather than the current OP 4.11) and thus was the applicable
policy on this topic.


                                                               3 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

remaining is largely offsite, comprising rehabilitation of recently disturbed beach areas, no
further finds are anticipated.

Bolstering utility company engagement with the public

13.     Management agreed that broader consultations with affected stakeholders in the Vlora
area following the conclusion of the formal Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process
would have been helpful to flag and respond to local opposition, and agreed to urge KESH to
increase its engagement with the public in the future. Management notes several positive actions
in this regard: (i) the tasking of the Eco Watch civil society organization to interface with the
public on environmental monitoring questions; (ii) the establishment of an Energy Education
Center at the Vlora TPP for public awareness-raising; and (iii) the signing of a collaboration
agreement between the Vlora TPP and the Regional Education Directorate of Vlora.

14.      The Bank recommended that KESH create a citizens advisory board to provide a vehicle
for public response to its operations. KESH's agreement to join Eco Watch is tantamount to
forming such a board, and perhaps even more desirable since the organization is independent of
KESH. While KESH does not have a full-time outreach specialist at the Vlora TPP, the local
manager and the environmental specialist seem to be filling an equivalent function. The Bank's
third recommendation ­ to develop outreach programs such as visits by university students and
school children ­ has been fully satisfied. KESH set aside substantial space for the purpose of
receiving visits from local students and has entered into an agreement with the local school
district to provide instructional visits to the plant for students. A demonstration photovoltaic
array is at the Vlora TPP, and a textbook on energy for students is ready to be printed.
Photographs of the Center are included as Annex B. KESH will pay for transport between
schools and the plant. It has also held discussions with the University of Vlora and has agreed to
provide short-term internships (and possible joint research opportunities) for engineering and
environment students. The University of Vlora has around 8,000 students; of whom about 1,000
are in engineering or environmental departments, which could benefit from such interaction.

Assistance to Albania on Environment

Improving compliance with international environmental obligations

15.     Albania is a party to the international Convention on Access to Information, Public
Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters; the so-called
"Aarhus Convention" administered by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
(UNECE). Certain deficiencies in Albania's compliance with the Aarhus Convention, and
possible implications for the Bank-financed Project, were noted by the Inspection Panel and
Management in their respective reports. Management agreed as an action item to continue to
support Albania with an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) capacity-building grant called
Strengthening Aarhus Convention Implementation for Albania.

16.    The latter project became effective in December 2009 and is coordinated by a Tirana-
based Bank communications specialist supported by an international consultant with
considerable experience on infrastructure, consultations, and social development issues. There
were some delays in the start of the project but it was formally launched at a press conference


                                                           4 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

held on March 17, 2010. The Deputy Minister of Environment, Water Resources and Forests
opened the session, after which there were discussions in which a number of prominent
nongovernmental organization (NGO) activists participated. The Ministry of Environment,
Water Resources and Forests (MOE) has appointed a project coordinator who is also the chief
environmental licensing officer, which will prevent any internal roadblocks to accessing critical
information. The MOE has established three Aarhus Centers in Albania covering the North,
Central and Southern regions of the country, respectively in Shkodra, Tirana and Vlore. The
project will begin with a needs assessment for strengthening compliance with the Aarhus
Convention. The Bank provided suggestions for the terms of reference for this task as well as
advice on procurement and other management matters. The Bank also prepared a short, practical
primer on consultation methods, which will be translated into Albanian and used in connection
with training. Technical support for this project by Bank staff continues through the end of the
grant period (December 17, 2012).

Improving Bank Operational Performance

Strengthening social assessment in the ECA region

17.     In its Action Plans in response to Board discussions following Inspection Panel reviews
of both the Albania Power Sector and Albania Integrated Coastal Zone Management Projects,
Management committed to improving the application of social assessments in projects during
preparation and implementation.5 Since October 2009, the ECA social development team has
been augmented by three new positions (two junior staff in the field, and one lead staff at
headquarters), bringing the total team complement to 21 staff. Country social scientists have also
been appointed to help with the identification and inclusion of social aspects at the
macro/country level. An additional lead social scientist now assists the ECA safeguards team
regarding due diligence on social safeguards. It is also noteworthy that both lead social
specialists recently arrived in ECA from other Bank regions, bringing solid and diverse
experience on social safeguards and broader social development issues.

18.     A key part of Management's commitment on this topic is staff training. A new training
program was launched in May 2010 for Task Team Leaders and the Regional Management Team
on social safeguards and sustainability. This training focuses on the application of safeguards and
use of effective consultation as key factors in successful and sustainable projects. It is intended to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of task team work going forward in the wider context of
social impacts and risks. The Region's social development specialists have helped ensure a
broad-based improvement in the utility and depth of social analysis to be used in new operations
as a routine part of social due diligence.

Improving staff awareness of borrower country international obligations

19.    As noted earlier, the Bank is following through on its commitment to help Albania
improve its compliance with the Aarhus Convention. Management also recognized that staff
would need training on how Bank-supported environmental assessment (EA) work intersects
with borrower country international obligations. This is not an easy task, as practical guidance

                                                            
5
    See, for example, Progress Report No. 2 on the ICZM project (Report No. 53004-AL) dated February 26, 2010.


                                                               5 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

for international financial institutions is lacking from the UNECE, which administers key
Conventions. This matter applies not only to Albania but to the majority of countries in ECA
where such Conventions apply. While Aarhus is of prime concern, it is also anticipated that the
UNECE-administered "Espoo Convention" on Environmental Impact in a Transboundary
Context could also arise in connection with some Bank-financed projects in ECA. Management
committed to develop and deliver a training module for Bank staff. The Bank has made good
progress; with a session delivered to ECA field staff on May 4, 2010 and draft guidance planned
for the end of this fiscal year. Additional sessions will be held, and revised guidance provided to
staff in fiscal year 2011.

Avoiding conflict of interest on Environmental Impact Assessment of Category A projects

20.     An element of the discussion between the Inspection Panel and Management concerned
the approach used in the Project's Category A EIA to ensure independence and quality. It was
reiterated in the Board discussion that a separation of consulting firms carrying out EA from
those firms carrying out design/feasibility/engineering on Category A projects is the desired
norm for compliance with OP 4.01. Management agreed that should a similar "exceptional"
situation arise as occurred in the Project, where an alternative form of quality assurance should
be considered, a waiver of OP 4.01 will be sought from the Board. No Bank project has gone to
the Board requesting such a waiver since October 22, 2009.

Improving external communications and response by the World Bank office in Tirana

21.     Management recognizes that closer understanding of and response to local opposition to
the Vlora TPP during preparation and implementation would have been helpful. As such,
Management is implementing a new Communications Strategy in the World Bank Country
Office in Tirana which provides proactive and time-bound responses to comments or complaints
from communities, civil society and the private sector. The Country Office responds promptly to
requests for information, and has increased supervision of government-led consultation processes
during project preparation and implementation. The Country Office is preparing to launch a pilot
exercise in 2010-2011 under the Governance Partnership Facility to involve civil society partners
in monitoring (with the Bank) implementation of Bank-supported projects as a way to increase
transparency and public awareness. As noted earlier, an IDF grant to strengthen Albania's
capacity to comply with the Aarhus Convention regarding access to information in decision
making that relates to the environment, has begun implementation.

22.    Finally, project task teams working in Albania have continued to make better use of
external affairs specialist expertise in the management of project communications.

Sharing safeguards lessons learned from this Inspection Panel case with staff

23.     While the above action items refer to specific topical matters arising from the Board
discussion, the Bank committed to sharing lessons learned on this Inspection Panel case with
staff as part of briefings, training course, and where appropriate, written guidance. A major
briefing on this case was held in late January 2010 for over 200 persons in the Sustainable
Development Department of the ECA Region. Discussions have been held with Albania Country
Office staff and Task Teams working in Albania. The Second Progress Report on the Integrated


                                                           6 
Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) case6 outlines further ECA-wide training on safeguards that
reflects lessons on both Inspection Panel cases in Albania. Broader ECA-specific and Bank-wide
training planned for fiscal year 2011 (including E-learning and staff guidance), will reflect
experiences from both Albania Inspection Panel cases.

IV.           CONCLUDING REMARKS

24.    Management believes that satisfactory progress has been made in implementing the
Action Plan and a subsequent Progress Report is not necessary.




                                                            
6
    See earlier footnotes.


                                                               7 
    June 9th FINAL DRAFT Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
     

                                                  Annex A: Summary of Progress on Management Action Plan
    ISSUE               ACTION PLAN                                                      PROGRESS (as of May 31, 2010)

    Marine              As the final offshore Oil Spill Response Plan is not yet fully   Good progress has been made on the above, and the task is almost fully complete. The
    Environment ­ Oil   in place, the Bank will oversee the completion of the Plan       draft final Oil Spill Contingency Plan focusing on offshore concerns was prepared by
    Spill Response      in advance of routine facility operation (estimated at           OSRP Limited in November 2009. KESH also established an inter-ministerial Task
                        present to be early November 2009), as required by the           Force which oversaw preparation of an Action Plan for implementation of the oil spill
                        Credit Agreement.                                                prevention and response measures, as entities beyond KESH have roles to play.
                                                                                         KESH has implemented organizational elements (such as establishing chains of
                                                                                         command and communication) as well as physical elements (especially the acquisition
                                                                                         of offshore containment equipment). Procurement of the latter ­ including protective
                                                                                         booms, absorbents and portable skimmers ­ is now complete and the equipment was
                                                                                         delivered in late May 2010, with the Plan now considered adopted. Final training of
                                                                                         staff by international experts on this set of equipment is currently planned for mid to
                                                                                         late July 2010.
                                                                                         KESH/Vlora TPP has hired two vessels from local companies as part of prevention
                                                                                         and response: one for normal operational assistance during fuel unloading operations,
                                                                                         and a second with the ability to deploy the offshore containment equipment in the case




8
                                                                                         of an unexpected release. KESH now has arrangements in place with the Coast Guard
                                                                                         for any more catastrophic accident given its capacity to respond to larger emergencies.
                                                                                         Management will continue to oversee the full implementation of oil spill response
                                                                                         planning and management measures until Project closure.

    Air and water       Management will report on progress by KESH regarding             A CEMS has been installed to sample stack gases; the principal means for acquiring
    quality             regular monitoring of environmental parameters                   core data to ensure compliance. Once the plant commences routine operations (i.e., by
                        associated with Project operations, along with                   early to mid 2011), emissions information on both air and water quality will be
                        corresponding disclosure of monitoring data.                     collected and analyzed to spot any deviations in emissions that could negatively
                                                                                         impact ambient air quality and marine waters. Emissions data will be made available
                                                                                         routinely to the public on the KESH website. As agreed to by KESH, the "Eco Watch"
                                                                                         civil society organization will pay special attention to any potential risk by the Vlora
                                                                                         TPP on the ambient environment of Vlora. One party to Eco Watch is the Regional
                                                                                         Council of Vlora, which has agreed to also inform the public on local television on
                                                                                         plant activity and environmental performance and management. The Vlora TPP now
                                                                                         has a full time staff engineer on site devoted to environmental management,
                                                                                         compliance and education.

    Social Analysis     Management will urge KESH to increase engagement with Management notes several positive actions on this topic: (i) the tasking of the Eco



                                                                                          
    June 9th FINAL DRAFT Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
     

                                                  Annex A: Summary of Progress on Management Action Plan
    ISSUE               ACTION PLAN                                                      PROGRESS (as of May 31, 2010)

                        the residents of Vlora. Activities could include: (i)            Watch civil society organization to interface with the public on environmental
                        establishment of a citizens advisory board; (ii) hiring of a     monitoring questions, (ii) the establishment of an Energy Education Center at the
                        full time outreach specialist; (iii) development of outreach     Vlora TPP for public awareness-raising, and (iii) the signing of a collaboration
                        programs such as visits to the plant by university students      agreement between the Vlora TPP and the Regional Education Directorate of Vlora.
                        and school children. A draft engagement plan is expected
                                                                                         The ECA social development team has been augmented by three new positions and
                        by October 30, 2009, with a final plan expected by
                                                                                         Country social scientists have also been appointed to help with the identification and
                        December 30, 2009.
                                                                                         inclusion of social aspects at the macro / country level. An additional lead social
                        Management is committed to strengthening the assessment          scientist now assists the ECA safeguards unit regarding due diligence on social
                        of social and cultural aspects of investments through            safeguards. It is also noteworthy that both lead social specialists recently arrived in
                        application of the EA policy as well as related social and       ECA from other Bank regions, bringing solid and diverse experience on social
                        operational policies. Going forward, Management will             safeguards and broader social development issues. A new training program was
                        seek to ensure that: (i) salient social impacts are identified   launched in May 2010 for Task Team Leaders and the Regional Management Team on
                        early in the Bank's due diligence; (ii) negative impacts are     social safeguards and sustainability. This training focuses on the application of
                        managed and social opportunities are developed; and (iii)        safeguards and use of effective consultation as key factors in successful and
                        the Bank supervises these aspects throughout the project         sustainable projects. It is intended to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of task
                        cycle. To this end, Management is clarifying the division of     team work going forward in the wider context of social impacts and risks. The




9
                        labor and responsibilities of social and environmental           Region's social development specialists have helped ensure a broad-based
                        technical staff with respect to due diligence and                improvement in the utility and depth of social analysis to be used in new operations as
                        supervision. This is expected to be completed by March           a routine part of social due diligence.  
                        2010. With respect to consultation and disclosure, social
                        specialists will be tasked to ensure that the quality, scope
                        and frequency of public consultation are adequate and that
                        they are well documented. Social development staff will
                        receive regular training in this regard starting in the next
                        two months.

    International       The Bank will continue to support the Government of              The IDF project became effective in December 2009 and is coordinated by a Tirana-
    Environmental       Albania on the IDF-supported Strengthening Aarhus                based Bank communications specialist supported by an international consultant with
    Obligations under   Convention Implementation capacity building project,             considerable experience on infrastructure, consultations, and social development
    OP 4.01             which will extend through fiscal year 2011.                      issues. It was formally launched on March 17, 2010 at a press conference in which a
                                                                                         number of prominent NGO activists participated. The MOE has appointed a project
                        The Bank will develop and deliver in spring 2010 a
                                                                                         coordinator who is also the chief environmental licensing officer, which will prevent
                        training module for Bank staff on assisting partner
                                                                                         any internal roadblocks to accessing critical information. The MOE has established
                        governments in meeting their international treaty
                                                                                         three Aarhus Centers in Albania covering the North, Central and Southern regions of
                        obligations, including practical implementation (with
                                                                                         the country, respectively in Shkodra, Tirana and Vlore. A needs assessment will be the



                                                                                          
     June 9th FINAL DRAFT Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
      

                                                   Annex A: Summary of Progress on Management Action Plan
     ISSUE                ACTION PLAN                                                   PROGRESS (as of May 31, 2010)

                          written guidance) of two UNECE Conventions (Aarhus            first step in the project. The Bank also prepared a short, practical primer on
                          and Espoo).                                                   consultation methods which will be translated into Albanian and used in connection
                                                                                        with training. Technical support for this project by Bank staff continues through the
                                                                                        end of the grant period (December 17, 2012).
                                                                                        The Bank has prepared the training module and delivered the first session for ECA
                                                                                        field staff on May 4, 2010. Draft guidance is planned for the end of this fiscal year.
                                                                                        Additional sessions will be held, and revised guidance provided to staff in fiscal year
                                                                                        2011.  

     Cultural Property    The Bank will continue to supervise the Project for any       No chance finds have been encountered in the intervening time.
                          chance finds of cultural property assets through Project
                          closing.

     Implementation of    Management notes that improvement in the assessment of        In regard to improvement in assessment of social impacts, see item on Social Analysis,
     Public               social impacts of projects is an Action Item for the ECA      above.
     Consultations




10
                          Region following the Board review of the Inspection Panel
     throughout Project                                                              Regarding communications, the Country Office responds promptly to requests for
                          Report for the Albania ICZM Project. Management will
     Implementation                                                                  information, and has increased supervision of government-led consultation processes
                          ensure that institutional strengthening in this regard will
                                                                                     during project preparation and implementation. The Country Office is preparing to
                          also apply to major infrastructure and energy projects to
                                                                                     launch a pilot exercise in 2010-2011 under the Governance Partnership Facility to
                          enhance their quality and sustainability (action ongoing).
                                                                                     involve civil society partners in monitoring (with the Bank) implementation of Bank-
                          Beginning in October 2009, Management will implement a supported projects as a way to increase transparency and public awareness. As noted
                          newly revised Communications Strategy in the World Bank earlier, an IDF grant to strengthen Albania's capacity to comply with the Aarhus
                          Office in Tirana, Albania. The new strategy includes inter Convention regarding access to information in decision making that relates to the
                          alia: (i) a system for proactive and time-bound responses  environment, has begun implementation. Finally, project task teams working in
                          to complaints from communities, civil society and the      Albania have continued to make better use of external affairs specialist expertise in the
                          private sector; (ii) increased supervision of government-  management of project communications.  
                          led consultation processes during project preparation and
                          implementation; and (iii) annual briefings to the relevant
                          Parliamentary committees on project implementation and
                          policy reform issues.




                                                                                          
June 9th FINAL DRAFT Albania Power Sector Project: Progress Report on Implementation of Management Plan 
 

                                               Annex B
                               Energy and Environmental Training Center
                                Vlora Thermal Power Plant (March 2010)




                                                           11 
