                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2169



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-38720)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT


                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.9 MILLION
                       (US$ 25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

                                    FOR A

       POWER SECTOR GENERATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT



                               September 25, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit (ECCU4)
Europe and Central Asia Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2012)
                    Currency Unit = Lek
                    Lek 1 = US$ 0.0094
                    US$ 1.00 = 106 Lek
                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1—December 31
          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFFA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CRI       Cash Recovery Index
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB       European Investment Bank
EA        Environmental Assessment
EC        European Community
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EPC       Engineering, Procurement, and Construction
ERE       Electricity Regulatory Authority
FIDIC     International Federation of Consulting Engineers
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
GPRS      Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IPP       Independent Power Project
ISA       International Standards on Auditing
KESH      Albanian Power Corporation
Kfw       Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
Libor     London Interbank Offered Rate
N.B.F.    Non-Bank Financed
OAC       Operational Acceptance Certificate
OE        Owner’s Engineer
PMU       Project Management Unit
SEEREM    South East Europe Regional Energy Market
SEETEC    Southeastern Europe Electrical System Technical Support Project
UCTE      Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity
USAID     US Agency for International Development
USTDA     US Trade and Development Agency

                Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
              Country Director: Jane Armitage
               Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
          Project Team Leader: Salvador Rivera
             ICR Team Leader: Fernando Lecaros
                          ALBANIA
      POWER SECTOR GENERATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT



                                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14


  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 19
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 30
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 31
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Power Sector
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:             Generation &
                                                                          Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P077526                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38720
ICR Date:               09/25/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 ALBANIA
Original Total
                        XDR 16.90M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 16.18M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 16.18M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 KESH
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)
 European Investment Bank (EIB)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/10/2003     Effectiveness:          01/25/2005           01/25/2005
                                                                                  12/05/2007
Appraisal:            11/10/2003     Restructuring(s):                            06/16/2010
                                                                                  06/15/2011
Approval:             03/16/2004     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                01/31/2008           12/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 25                  15
Regulation and competition policy                                      25                  15
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                 50                  70

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Arturo S. Rivera                     Iftikhar Khalil
ICR Team Leader:           Fernando Lecaros
ICR Primary Author:        Fernando Lecaros


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to achieve significant improvement in power
system performance through (1) priority investments to increase domestic thermal
generation, and (2) measures to implement sector reforms and institutional strengthening.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Power Losses
Value
quantitative or   41.7%                    26.92%                              30.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2002               12/30/2011                          12/30/2011
Comments
                  Not achieved, but distribution was privatized in May 2009. KESH is no longer
(incl. %
                  responsible for achieving this target.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Billing Collection
Value
quantitative or   80.4%                    85%                                 68%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2002               12/30/2011                          12/02/2011
Comments
                  Not achieved, but distribution was privatized in May 2009. KESH is no longer
(incl. %
                  responsible for achieving this target.
achievement)
                Tariffs are annually set by independent regulator based on a review of the
Indicator 3 :
                associated costs
                                                                              A new Law on
                                                                              Regulation of the
                                                                              Electricity Sector
                                                                              was enacted in May
                                                                              2003, provided for
                                                                              strengthening of the
                                                                              Regulator (ERE),
                                            New law passed
                                                                              removed           the
                                            under which
                                                                              authority of the
                                            strengthened
                                                                              Government to fix a
                Weak Regulatory             Regulator
Value                                                                         price      cap    for
                Framework with key          determines tariffs
quantitative or                                                               electricity.     The
                tariff decisions taken by based on
Qualitative)                                                                  tariffs      approval
                Government                  cost recovery and
                                                                              took      place     in
                                            after
                                                                              December 2010 and
                                            appropriate public
                                                                              June 2012. In 2010,
                                            consultation
                                                                              the     end     users
                                                                              average         tariff
                                                                              increase was 13%
                                                                              for 2010 and 0%
                                                                              for 2011. There was
                                                                              0% tariff increase
                                                                              in 2012.

                                                 iii
Date achieved     12/31/2002                                                  12/02/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Completion of the Vlore power station
Value
quantitative or   0%                       100%                               95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   12/31/2002                 12/31/2007                         12/31/2011
                Not achieved as of 06/30/2012 due to engineering problem with cooling water
Comments        intake pipe. In order to ascertain the problem and start operations properly, an
(incl. %        independent assessment is being carried out; the results are expected at the end of
achievement) September, 2012. The report will provide the Government with the basis for the
                permanent solution to the problem.
Indicator 5 : Energy generated from thermal power plant
                                           250GWh          per                The power plant
Value                                      annum out of                       produced a net
quantitative or 0                          700GWh          per                amount of 57GWh
Qualitative)                               annum its normal                   during       Aug-Oct
                                           capacity                           2011
Date achieved 12/31/2002                                                      12/31/2011
Comments
                Not achieved. The plant ceased generating on January 7, 2012 due to failure of
(incl. %
                cooling water intake line.
achievement)
                Appropriate regulatory framework (Independent regulator and functioning
Indicator 6 :
                electricity market)
                                                                              A new law on
                                                                              regulation of the
                                                                              sector was enacted
                                                                              in May 2003; it
                                                                              provided          for
                Weak regulatory            Independent
                                                                              strengthening of the
                framework with no          regulator
Value                                                                         regulator      (ERE),
                independent regulatory established,
quantitative or                                                               removed           the
                authority; lack of         electricity market
Qualitative)                                                                  authority of the
                competitive electricity    transactions taking
                                                                              Government to fix a
                market                     place
                                                                              price      cap    for
                                                                              electricity.
                                                                              Electricity market
                                                                              transactions      are
                                                                              taking place.
Date achieved                              12/31/2009                         03/23/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)




                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                         Revised
                                             approval                     Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Completion of the Vlore thermal power station
Value           Insufficient       power
                                                                        Power station not
(quantitative   generation during drought
                                                                        yet in service
or Qualitative) periods.
Date achieved                                                           06/21/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
        Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    03/30/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    09/29/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    05/18/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  4    12/07/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.43
  5    12/04/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.66
  6    12/21/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              1.07
  7    06/30/2008    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              1.71
  8    06/27/2009        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   20.12
                                                  Moderately
  9    06/08/2010        Satisfactory                                            22.40
                                                Unsatisfactory
 10    04/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             22.64
 11    12/26/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             23.22


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extension of closing date to
                                                     June 30, 2010 to allow time for
 12/05/2007       N       MS    MS            1.07
                                                     putting the power station into
                                                     service.
                                                     Extension of closing date to
 06/16/2010       N       S     MU           22.40
                                                     June 30, 2011 to allow for tests

                                           v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     and putting power plant into
                                                     service
                                                     Extension of closing date to
                                                     December 31, 2011 to allow
 06/15/2011       N       MS    MS           23.02
                                                     testing and commissioning of
                                                     Vlore power plant.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi
      1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Albania is part of the Southeast Europe (SEE) group of countries, together with Bosnia &
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, FYR Macedonia, Romania, and Serbia and Montenegro.
Prior to 1991 Albania was far less developed economically than any country in the
region, and was the poorest country in Europe. The fall of the Communist regime in
1990 inaugurated an era of economic reforms, providing a context in which the private
sector could develop freely. In the late 90s the collapse of several pyramid schemes
brought the country to the point of economic collapse, and civil unrest ensued. Economic
recovery followed, and growth has been sustained since 1999, and until 2010, averaging
an increase of around 6 percent per annum, one of the highest in Europe. Significantly,
increases in GDP led to Albania graduating from IDA in 2008. Despite this, Albania’s
per capita income lags significantly behind the average for the SEE countries
(US$7,100), with around $3,800 per capita, much below Croatia (US$13,700 per
capita) 1.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the beginning of Albania’s economic transition in the early 1990s, the country was
virtually 100% electrified and was a net electricity exporter. However, while the three
hydropower plants on the Drin River Cascade, and smaller plants on other rivers, which
produced over 90% of total electricity supply, were in reasonably good condition, the
Fier thermal power plant and the transmission and distribution systems were badly run
down because of previous neglect of maintenance, and there were frequent power outages
due to overloading of facilities.
Electricity demand within Albania fell to 79% of the 1989 level by 1992 because of
declines in industrial production. Thereafter it rose by 10.4% per year to 6,160 GWh in
2000. By 1998, Albania had become a net electricity importer. From the second half of
2000, the need for imports increased greatly as a result of a fall in hydropower production
caused by reduced rainfall. The country was unable to get all the imported electricity it
needed because of transmission and financial constraints. The result was large load
shedding, which had serious adverse macroeconomic effects.
The fall in hydropower production between 2000 and 2002 had a direct and significant
adverse impact on national economic output, and the load shedding caused cuts in
production by industry and obliged other businesses to purchase and use costly back-up
diesel generators. Households had to suffer without electricity for many hours of each
day.
The Albanian Power Corporation (KESH) was unable to pay for more than a small
proportion of the imports needed out of its own resources because of financial difficulties
caused by widespread illegal use of electricity, poor payment of bills and retail prices
which were below the cost of imported electricity. Faced with these difficulties, the


1
    The Little Data Book, World Bank, 2010




                                             1
Government started providing a subsidy, but its large level (US$31.5 million in 2001)
diverted funds from other critical needs including poverty reduction measures.
The troubles faced by KESH were a manifestation of longstanding management problems
in the power sector related to high losses due to theft, and poor collections. The problem
was addressed by several IDA projects with little success: in 1995, IDA financed a Power
Loss Reduction Project (CR 2677-AL) when losses were 43 percent of electricity
entering the distribution network; when the project closed, losses were 57 percent and it
was rated as unsatisfactory at closure. In 1996 a Power Transmission and Distribution
Project (P034491) was financed by IDA together with 4 other cofinanciers (EBRD, Italy,
Japan, and Switzerland); the IDA component sought to rehabilitate distribution networks
and to provide TA for privatization, regulation, environmental management and
strengthening of KESH’s financial department. Although losses remained high, they
were reduced from 43 percent in 2000 to 35 percent in 2002, and collections improved
from 61.5 percent in 2000 to 89.5 percent in 2002; this is equivalent to a Cash Recovery
Ratio (CRI) of 0.58 which is still unsatisfactory (a minimally sustainable CRI must be
higher than 0.7).
After several setbacks in the late 1990s, which led to the temporary suspension of donor
support, there followed an agreement with KESH to improve its operations through the
adoption of an action plan, which proved initially successful and made possible the
preparation of the IDA Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project (P074905–
IDA 36710) which was approved in June 2002, a precursor to the present Power Sector
Generation and Restructuring Project.
The Power Sector Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project was supported by the Growth
and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS) prepared by the Albanian Government in
November 2001, with an update of the macro-fiscal framework and an IDA-IMF Joint
Staff Assessment in May 2002. It was also supported by the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) that was considered by the Board in June 2002 at the same time as the project.
Both the GPRS and the CAS emphasized the macroeconomic impact of the crisis in the
power sector, its major impact on the poor, and the critical importance of addressing the
causes of the crisis and of meeting priority investments. The Power Sector Rehabilitation
and Restructuring Project became effective in October 2002, and incorporated objectives
which included loss reduction, billing improvement, and price rationalization, among
others; the project closed in late 2006 without substantial improvements in loss and
collections despite initial encouraging progress.
The present Generation and Restructuring Project was approved two years later (in March
2004) and was conceived as a complement to the previous project. It was based upon a
request from the Government to secure investment support in a new thermal power plant
to reduce the risk of load shedding associated with low hydrology periods. While the
Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project provided funding for transmission and
distribution, the present project provided funding for generation. Both projects
emphasized the same institutional improvements, and indeed the key indicators are
identical for both of them.
The main justification for the Generation and Restructuring Project was the need to
address the serious electricity crisis that was putting at risk Albania’s previously


                                            2
favorable macroeconomic performance and its economic growth prospects. There was a
necessity to support the Government’s ongoing efforts to improve sector performance by
providing significant investments. Given the situation in the sector at the time, private
investments were not forthcoming, and limits had to be placed on non-concessionary
borrowings in order to keep debt service liabilities within manageable proportions. The
Project would be the first power station to enter service since 1987.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The development objective of the Project is to achieve significant improvement in power
system performance through (1) priority investments to increase domestic thermal
generation, and (2) measures to implement sector reforms and institutional strengthening.
The key indicators are: (i) reduction in power transmission and distribution losses to
specified target levels; (ii) improvement in electricity bill collection to specified target
levels; (iii) strengthening of the regulator; (iv) competition of Vlore power station; (iv)
energy generation from thermal power plant to specified target levels; and (v) adopting
appropriate regulatory framework. The key reforms supported by the Project included: (i)
reduction in outstanding bills of Government budgetary and non-budgetary entities to
KESH to specified target levels; (v) reduction and eventual elimination of the
Government subsidy to KESH for import of electricity; (vi) improvement in KESH’s
self-financing ratio to specified target levels; and (vii) implementation of a power sector
reform program.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Not applicable

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The main beneficiaries of the Project would include all the electricity consumers in
Albania who would benefit from a more reliable power supply, and particularly those in
the southern part of the country where there was a deficiency of power generation and
who would benefit from an improved quality of supply. The sector reform measures
were expected to affect all electricity consumers through their impact on electricity
availability, reliability and costs of supply. Key policy actions supported by the project
were directed towards consumers who were not paying fully for their electricity
consumption; by channeling these consumers into the mainstream of customers, demand
would come into line with prices, and utility finances were expected to be strengthened.
KESH was expected to benefit from the Project due to increased sales (because of less
load shedding) as well as increased revenues due to the reduction of commercial losses.

1.5 Original Components
Project components included:
   (i) a combined cycle power station (in the range of 85 to 135MW) fueled by distillate
       oil at a six-hectare greenfield site about six km north of Vlore, adjacent to an
       offshore oil tanker terminal;
   (ii)    technical assistance for:



                                             3
           •     bid evaluation, contract administration and supervision of project
                 implementation;
           •     formation of a subsidiary company of KESH to own and operate the plant,
                 preparation of a power purchase agreement, and assistance in procuring
                 the services of an operator for an initial period;
           •     follow-up studies required by the Environmental Management Plan;
           •     examination of the option of soliciting bids to supply gas to the plant;
           •     power sector reforms;
           •     consumer satisfaction surveys;
           •     improvements in inventory control; and
           •     training in procurement and environmental management.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable

1.7 Other significant changes
The Project’s closing date was extended three times. The original closing date was
January 31, 2008. It was initially extended to June 30, 2010. In June, 2010, the closing
date was extended from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011. In June, 2011 it was extended
from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011. All the extensions were motivated by the
progress (or lack of progress) on the main component, which was the construction of the
Vlore power station.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Project was prepared in close consultation with the project team for the previous
Rehabilitation and Restructuring project. It was designed taking into account four sets of
alternatives, which included (i) no project, (ii) another transmission and distribution
project, (iii) alternative fuels and sites, and (iv) an independent power project (IPP)
financed by a private investor.
The most important consideration was the urgent need to reinforce KESH’s generation
capacity in order to avoid load shedding, taking into account the likelihood that imports
were expected to become progressively more difficult to obtain, and more expensive, and
that a regional shortage of capacity was developing. This criterion was based upon a
Review of Electricity Supply and Demand in South-East Europe (2002–2012) prepared
under World Bank supervision. It therefore led to a preference for funding a new
generation project rather than transmission or distribution.
The analysis also justified a combined cycle plant using distillate as the least cost thermal
option compared to a coal plant; natural gas was not considered as a feasible option in the
absence of any large user of this fuel in Albania, which would require allocating the full
import cost to the power plant. In any case, transformation to natural gas would be
straightforward if imports of this fuel were to materialize. The IPP option was rejected
due to market considerations at the time and a worldwide reduced interest of the private
sector for investing in power generation.


                                             4
The feasibility study carried out for the project also examined the alternative option of
rehabilitating the Fier thermal power plant, and several alternative transmission and
distribution investments. The Fier option was rejected because of its high estimated
levelized cost and because recent experience at other rehabilitated plants had shown a
large risk of frequent failures. Other transmission and distribution options were omitted
from the project because of lower economic rates of return.
The price of oil at the time of appraisal was on the order of $40/bbl, nearly double what it
was two years earlier. Significantly, the fuel cost in the economic analysis of the plant
was $4.89/MBtu, equivalent to around US$28 per barrel of distillate, i.e. around US$22
per barrel of crude. In the economic analysis, an increase in the fuel cost would increase
the IRR as the benefits evaluated at the willingness to pay consisted of avoided
generation at the customer level.
Project design was influenced by lessons learned from previous operations. The failure
in reducing losses and improving bill collection was the main cause of the poor sector
performance until 2001 and contributed to the unsatisfactory development objective
ratings for the Power Loss Reduction and the Power Transmission and Distribution
Projects. This experience was reflected first in the design of the Power Sector
Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project by placing a major emphasis on the reduction of
both technical and nontechnical losses and improvements in bill collection. The design
of the Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project gave continuing emphasis to
reduction in nontechnical power losses, improvements in bill collection, institutional
strengthening, and sector reforms. It also emphasized donor coordination by cofinancing
through the Bank, EBRD and EIB. The reform component of the project consisted of
continued support to the reforms initiated under the previous Power Sector Rehabilitation
and Restructuring Project.
The environmental and social aspects of the project were carefully prepared. Several
scoping sessions were held in Vlore as part of the Environmental Assessment. A meeting
was held in Vlore on October 31, 2002 to introduce the project to the public and begin the
public consultation process. A second meeting was held in Vlore on April 2, 2003 to
receive public input on the scope of the assessment. The meetings were covered by
Albanian television stations. Additional meetings were held with the Ministry of
Environment on August 15, 2002 and March 31, 2003. A public consultation was held
on September 3, 2003 in Vlore to discuss the draft EA. Minutes of the meetings are
available with the National Energy Agency which played a leading role in organizing
these sessions 2.

2.2 Implementation
Project implementation of the power plant went roughly through three main stages: (a)
the procurement of the EPC contractor between effectiveness (January 2005) and bid
award (October 2006) which took over a year, an unusually long time, (b) the
construction period between the signature of the EPC contract in February 2007 and the


2
    World Bank mission Aide Memoire (August 31 to September 15, 2005)




                                                  5
finalization of most works in mid-2009, and (c) the repeated attempts to put the plant into
service and to correct problems associated with the offshore cooling water and fuel lines,
between October 2009 and June 2012, with a final solution still pending.
The procurement of the EPC contractor was difficult and protracted due to a
disagreement between the Bank and KESH regarding bid evaluation. According to the
Bank, one of the bidders was considered to be non-responsive, whereas KESH wished to
award it the contract. KESH’s argument was based on a better heat rate which would
improve the offer of the bidder if actual fuel prices had been used to evaluate the bids and
not the fuel price set out in the bidding documents and used for bid evaluation, which was
about half the price at evaluation. The Bank’s procurement criteria prevailed and the
contract was awarded to the lowest cost responsive bidder.
One of the major incidents encountered during implementation concerned an Inspection
Panel review which was requested by neighbors of the Vlore power plant in May, 2007,
shortly after the EPC contract was awarded (March, 2007), but before construction had
begun. The complaint included essentially environmental risks associated with the
project, which would impact fisheries, natural habitats, ecosystems, tourism, and coral
colonies, among others. The Panel concluded that the plant would not exceed applicable
air emission and cooling water discharge limits, would not adversely affect the nearby
Narta Lagoon, and would not result in damage or destruction of any cultural heritage or
critical natural habitats. It also concluded that the major remaining risk related to
possible oil spills from delivery of diesel oil to the plant, but clarified that this was
addressed by the project. This incident did not delay implementation.
Construction was expected to take two years (the goal was to commission the plant by
May 2009) but quickly ran into delays associated with the performance of the EPC
contractor. Testing was scheduled to take place by May 2009 but started five months
later. At that time (October, 2009) tests were suspended when a problem was detected
with the submerged cooling water intake system which had broken. In June 2010 the
project was already one year behind schedule due to this problem and a definitive
solution had not been found. In January 2011 it was decided to rebuild the underwater
water intake, which completed in July, 2011. Testing with the refurbished intake was
initiated in October, 2011 but was suspended for lack of fuel. Nevertheless, an
Operations Acceptance Certificate (OAC) was issued on October 28, 2011. Further tests
were conducted in December, 2011 but on January 7, 2012 the plant tripped due to a drop
in the water intake at the plant, caused by a new failure in the cooling water pipe, which
had emerged from the seabed. The reasons behind this problem are still under
investigation. During this process the Bank followed the developments closely, but the
solutions were left to the technical decisions taken between the contractor and the advice
provided by the OE.
The responsibilities behind this series of events are shared among the different
participants in the construction and commissioning of the Vlore power plant:
    • The initial designs of the submerged cooling water intake were not carried out on
        the basis of the actual maritime conditions of Vlore bay, but on conditions in a
        similar location;
    • The Owner’s Engineer (OE) apparently lacked experience with these particular
        types of problems and did not provide a constructive diagnosis to address them;


                                             6
   •   The EPC contractor, who ultimately bears the responsibility for the project did not
       address the problem adequately.
At the time of ICR preparation, the offshore problems had still to be resolved and
possible approaches to their solution were being discussed between the contractor, KESH,
and the OE. Because the EPC contractor had reached the cap for its liquidated damages,
it had little incentive to find a solution to the problem.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring of the project has been the responsibility of the OE which is also in charge of
providing technical assistance to KESH with respect to project progress and decision
making. The OE provided periodical reports on project progress which kept the parties,
including KESH and the Bank, informed. This arrangement was largely successful
during the implementation of the main onshore works, but less so regarding the offshore
works. For example, with the benefit of hindsight, it was probably unadvisable to allow
the contractor to implement a temporary solution for the water pipe intake in 2010; a
closer evaluation of the consequences of this decision on the PDO would likely have led
to adopting another alternative. The OE belatedly contracted specialized advice on
underwater works after the failure of the water intake. Regarding monitoring of the
Project through performance indicators, they were not tracked throughout the Project due,
among others, to the privatization of the distribution business of KESH.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
Environment. The Project triggered the following safeguard policies: environmental
assessment (environmental category A), and involuntary resettlement. Mitigation was
taken into account by selection of the route for the seven-kilometer transmission line to
minimize the environmental impact. Land acquisition was limited to about 0.8 hectares
with no resettlement and no impact on natural habitats and cultural properties. The
Inspection Panel assessment (as noted above under implementation) confirmed a priori
that the site for the power plant complied with environmental constraints.
During construction adequate measures were taken to avoid environmental degradation,
and the onshore work sites were walled off. Compensatory measures were taken with
respect to tree felling by a replanting program.
Environmental risks were recognized relating to the possibility of oil spills from the
underwater fuel line, and an emergency oil spill action plan was developed in the event
that such an emergency did occur. Oil spill containment equipment (e.g. booms) was
acquired and practical training on its use was undertaken with qualified instructors and in
coordination with the Port Authority of Vlore. If an oil spill were to occur when
discharging fuel to the power plant it would be detected immediately and pumping
through the fuel line would be suspended, and the emergency plan would be set in motion.
Social. The social aspects of the Project were taken into account during the design phase.
As noted above, meetings with the communities adjacent to the Project were held prior to
initiation and, no involuntary resettlement took place.




                                            7
Fiduciary
Procurement. Procurement activities were particularly important during Project
initiation. Although effectiveness was only achieved in January 2005, bidding
documents had already been finalized and were issued that same month. Bids were
received in late April, 2005, and a bid evaluation report was issued on June 30, 2005.
This initiated a lengthy period of revisions which were required by the Bank to reflect the
conditions of different providers. As a result, three revised bid evaluation reports were
required until a final award was agreed in March 2007, over two years after the
procurement of the main equipment was initiated. Thereafter, no major issues were
encountered relating to procurement.
Financial management. FM arrangements from a fiduciary perspective under the
Project were implemented in an adequate manner and maintained throughout the life of
the project. KESH employed a financial specialist responsible for Project financial
management, who had the appropriate skills and abilities to manage the project’s
financial management and disbursement issues. The implementing unit within KESH has
used a comprehensive set of accounting policies and internal control procedures in
accordance with the Project financial management manual. The quarterly Project interim
financial reports were submitted timely. A spreadsheet based accounting and reporting
was used throughout the life of the Project, despite the Bank‘s and auditors’
recommendation to implement a specialized project management software and/ or to
integrate project accounting in the entity accounting software application. The latter has
been made possible only in the recent stages of the Project.
The audits of the entity and project financial statements were submitted on a regular basis,
albeit with some delays in a few instances. Project audits did not highlight any major
irregularity. On the other hand, in order to address the issues raised by the auditors on the
entity (KESH) financial statements, the task team approved technical assistance to help
KESH in improving its financial management (such as the assistance in preparation of
financial statements and implementation of the accounting software).
Counterpart financing received from the Government was satisfactory during the Project
life.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
In order to ascertain the problem at cooling intake water pipe and start operations
properly, an independent assessment is being carried out; the results are expected at the
end of September, 2012. The report will provide the Government with the basis to
identify and implement the permanent solution to the problem which would ensure
consistent, reliable and sustainable operation of the power plant.

Once in operation, the power plant is not expected to require any particular measures
other than standard maintenance. It will operate as a separate company providing energy
under a Power Purchase Agreement, thereby ensuring its financial sustainability, and will
be operated by a specialized contractor (already in place) in charge of operations and
maintenance, thereby ensuring its technical sustainability.




                                             8
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The PDO remains relevant today and in line with the current 2010 Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) which covers the 2011–2014 period; the CPS cites infrastructure, and
electricity supply, as one of the main obstacles encountered by business: the unreliability
and poor quality of electricity supplies has regularly been cited by Albanian firms of all
sizes as one of their most critical constraints. In 2008, firms reported an average 32
outages per month, necessitating widespread reliance on stand-by generators and
inhibiting expenditures on sophisticated technical equipment which might be damaged by
power fluctuations. A recent study3 to assess the situation of the power sector concluded
that it requires thermal generation as a backup during dry years which are a region-wide
phenomenon and, therefore, impact the availability of imports and their price. The Project
is consequently addressing concerns which remain valid in 2012, as embedded in the
PDO and the key indicator associated with the reduction in load shedding.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The main development objective, which is to achieve significant power system
performance improvement, could be achieved depending on the materialization of
contingent conditions in the power system, including (a) power demand increments or
system outages which can be covered by generation of the Vlore power plant, or (b) low
runoff (drought) conditions which reduce the available energy for the system, requiring
the operation of Vlore to complement alternate sources of power such as imports from the
region. The achievement of the project’s objective is obviously dependent on finding and
implementing an effective and long-lasting solution to the cooling water pipe problem.
Given that this has not happened, the main PDO has not been achieved at the time of ICR
preparation.
The following considerations demonstrate the usefulness of Vlore in improving power
system performance. The Drin cascade, which is the main source of electricity in
Albania has an average production of 4.3TWh per year, but it can produce as much as
7TWh, as in 2010, or as little as 2.5TWh, as in 2007. The Vlore power plant could
provide a backup of around 0.75TWh per year. During years 2001-2010 there was
persistent load shedding for different reasons, on the order of 0.05TWh (in 2010) to
0.9TWh in 2007. Load shedding during 2001-2010 averaged around 0.45TWh per year,
and, on average, Vlore would have been able to cover the deficit (assuming enough
transmission capacity). In this sense, if hydrological conditions in the future were to
replicate the 2001–2010 decade, Vlore would contribute significantly to improve the
sector’s performance. However, the fact that the plant is still not available constitutes a
negative factor as the solution to its problems remains under discussion.




3
 A Stocktaking Assessment of the Albanian Power Market: Reform Progress and Market Monitoring—
Final Report, AF-Mercados EMI, prepared for MDGIF, United Nations, and the World Bank, April 2012



                                                9
In addition to the contributions made by the plant during drought years, it is located in the
Southern area of the power system and is in a position to provide power when the
transmission facilities cannot supply the load in that area.
With respect to sector reforms and institutional strengthening, the project continued the
support provided by the previous Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project, and
established the regulating agency and, notably, achieved the privatization of KESH’s
distribution business, which was acquired by a private company.

3.3 Efficiency
An ex-post economic evaluation, assuming that the plant will be put in service after
overcoming the technical problems it has encountered, yielded the following results (see
Annex 3 for details): a positive Net Present Value (at 12 percent discount rate) of around
14M$ and an acceptable ERR of around 13 percent when the probability of a dry year is
around one in five, which corresponds approximately to the observed frequency of dry
spells in the region; for less frequent dry years the NPV becomes negative and the ERR
falls below the 12 percent threshold; for example, for a one in ten frequency, the ERR
falls to 5.9 percent and the NPV becomes -44M$. These are the most pessimistic
assumptions with respect to the economic results of Vlore, i.e. limiting its plant factor to
around 20 percent on average. This is in stark contrast to the appraisal assessment of an
expected plant factor of 80 percent. Vlore’s plant factor may increase, and consequently
its benefits, if it is also operated to reduce load shedding in the south of Albania due to
transmission constraints during peak hours (during which it will also contribute to system
stability and voltage control in the networks). In this case, the NPV becomes positive for
even the low probability of dry spells and yields an ERR of 19 percent in the case of a
one in five probability. The economic analysis indicates that the power plant is expected
to be economically justified if its technical difficulties can be overcome and it can be put
in service.
An ex-post financial evaluation was performed according to the conditions of the PPA.
Due to the extensive construction period of the power plant, interest during construction
weighs heavily on the financial picture, which yields a financial rate of return of only 4.2
percent.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Increasing system thermal generation. Although the Project continues to be relevant
for the purpose of providing support to the Albanian power system during drought years,
it has not been able to achieve the PDO: if a drought situation were to occur in 2012, after
Project closure, the Project would not be able to deliver the required energy. In terms of
efficiency, this is an expensive investment which will not pay for itself in financial terms,
although it can still be justified from an economic standpoint. The main output indicator
in the PAD, which consisted of the completion of the power station within budget and on
schedule, was not achieved on time. Despite the setbacks in commissioning, what
remains to be solved is an engineering problem and a solution is expected to be achieved
within a reasonable time frame. As of late July, 2012, an experienced advisor is assisting
the Project to solve the problem.


                                              10
Technical assistance. The Project was successful in providing support to KESH in all
aspects of bid evaluation, contract administration, and supervision of project
implementation by financing the Owner’s Engineer services; it also supported KESH in
setting up the subsidiary company and the commercial aspects it implied (power purchase
agreement, procuring services of an operator). As part of this component, the Project
successfully supported KESH in executing the follow-up studies required by the EMP
(notably the training to address an eventual oil spill in Vlore Bay), in implementing
improvements in inventory control, and training in environmental management.
Supporting sector reforms. The Project was successful in supporting the power sector
reforms initiated under the previous Rehabilitation and Restructuring project by
maintaining the dialogue with the Bank and preserving the momentum of sector reform:
(i) strengthening of regulatory agency, (ii) privatization of the distribution company
which was acquired by a private company. It should be noted that although KESH is no
longer responsible for some of the efficiency indicators associated with distribution, such
as improvements in losses and collection, the goals as set out in key indicators have not
been achieved. However, the Bank should have taken into account the relevance of the
indicators according to developments regarding reforms, and proceeded to restructure the
Project by replacing some indicators with more relevant ones.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not Applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Even thought there have been issues related to the operation of the distribution system by
the private operator, one of the achievements on the institutional strengthening aspect of
the Project consisted of the privatization of the distribution business of KESH, which was
acquired by a private company. The Bank supported the privatization with a Partial Risk
Guarantee.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None were detected

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate.

The Project will operate within a stable institutional framework and all measures have
been taken to ensure that it is properly maintained. The only significant risks to the
Project are problems with the offshore lines (cooling water intake and fuel line) which
may re-appear in the future due to severe weather events.




                                            11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank selected a project that would provide much-needed support to the sector and
prepared it meticulously. Applicable safeguards were identified and the Project was
linked to a continuing effort to improve the Albanian power sector performance.
However, the assessment of Vlore chose the combined cycle configuration without
comparing it to the open cycle option, which could be more economic at low plant factors.
An open cycle choice would not have involved the difficulties encountered with the
cooling system required by the combined cycle configuration (and could be converted, if
necessary, to combined cycle).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank followed closely the execution of the Project and provided guidance at critical
moments. The practical implementation problems encountered during execution were
beyond its range of action, but the Bank team provided important and opportune advice
to KESH on handling the emergency situations which were faced (and continue to be
faced) by the Project. The team did not follow all of the key indicators included in the
PAD due to the change in sector structure ensuing from the privatization of distribution,
but no restructuring was recorded to reflect this fact. The Project team should have
recognized the failings related to project indicators and proceeded to carry out the mid-
term review and restructure the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

This rating combines the ratings for project preparation and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government supported the Project throughout its execution, put in place the
regulatory agency, and supported the privatization of the distribution business of KESH.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

KESH supported the Project within the range of its limited experience with thermal
power plants and their construction problems. However, it could have shown more
determination in pursuing resolution of the problems encountered initially in 2009, e.g.
by exerting pressure on the OE to provide additional support in facing the offshore line
difficulties.


                                            12
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The rating combines the ratings for Government and Implementing Agency.

6. Lessons Learned

Ownership is essential. Perhaps the largest management failure of the Project lies in the
lack of involvement of KESH in decision making, starting with Project concept, which
according to KESH (see their ICR, below), was a decision taken by the financiers. This
should not have happened and a more proactive role of the owner throughout Project
implementation would have possibly mitigated the pitfalls that developed. The lack of
experience in project management should be addressed at an early stage, providing the
owner with greater support in its role by hiring an experienced project advisor.
Turnkey projects are not risk-proof. Although turnkey projects are often seen as a
good way to reduce project risk, the Vlore project is a good example of why the owner
must maintain a continuous presence in order to ensure the success of a turnkey project.
In fact, the owner must have the adequate contractual leverage to oblige the contractor to
comply with his obligations as soon as risks are detected. In the case of Vlore, a
definitive solution to the cooling water intake should have been designed in 2009, before
the liquidated damages could be initiated because, once the latter reach their cap, the
contractor may lose interest in complying with his obligations. In fact, once the
liquidated damages are exhausted, additional costs are borne by the client. This is likely
to be the case for Vlore.
Using a panel of experts is advisable. In large engineering projects it is common
practice to have a panel of experts to provide counsel and different points of view on
solving problems during construction. In the case of a turnkey project of a thermal plant
this may not be considered necessary, given the conventional character of the undertaking.
However, Vlore proves that this is not the case: a panel of experts could have provided
valuable advice when the cooling water line failed in 2009, probably foreseeing the
futility of the temporary solution put in place, and providing counsel to implement a
definitive alternative.
The choice of EPC contractual instruments should be reviewed. The Vlore project
was contracted using World Bank procurement documents. The OE’s opinion is that the
Bank’s documents are not adequate in enforcing the owner’s rights. This may be a good
moment to either (a) review the performance of Bank contract documents, or (b)
providing clients with the option of choosing alternative documents, such as the FIDIC
contract forms which are widely recognized and periodically updated.
Supervision should be emphasized, complementing ownership. In order to reduce the
risks of turnkey projects, adequate provision for supervision services should be made. In
the case of Vlore, a more generous allocation for the services of the OE would have
allowed a closer tracking of the EPC contractor and the problems it faced. Given
KESH’s lack of experience with thermal projects, the role of the OE acquired an even
higher profile. Hiring an experienced project advisor since inception would have been



                                           13
advisable, in order to support KESH in decision making with respect to OE and
contractor performance.
Opportune restructuring of a project should be performed through a continuous
tracking of performance indicators. The Vlore project shows how the lack of attention
to the relevance of indicators impacted negatively on the completion assessment and how
this failing could have been addressed at an early stage.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
KESH’s ICR raises the following issues:
Plant conceptual study. KESH notes that “conceptual studies were arranged by the
financing banks?. This points, from project inception, towards a lack of ownership on the
part of KESH regarding the Project. This lack of ownership was perpetuated throughout
the Project by excessive reliance on the OE and not enough say in critical decisions. This
is a failing on both the owner’s part and the different financiers who failed to submit their
recommendations to a critical overview lead by the owner.
Tendering and EPC contract. KESH notes the failings of the World Bank procurement
documents and draws particular attention to the fact that the Bank documents do not
place sufficient weight on the commissioning and testing phases. This is noted, but there
weren’t any actions taken to advise the contractor on better approaches to the problems
encountered during commissioning and testing.
Contract award. KESH indicates that contract award was based solely on price. In fact,
the discussion around the award criteria indicated that there were valid reasons for
rejecting the second bid, which was considered to be not responsive on a number of
points.
Construction/erection. KESH calls attention to the critical error of delaying the
offshore works until September 2008 and working under winter conditions which made
for greater difficulty in assuring quality. This is a good example of the failing noted by
KESH in regard of the contract documents which do not allow for greater pressure on the
contractor.
Operational experience. KESH notes that the Operational Acceptance Certificate was
issued after the completion of the trial run. This raises the question as to whether the
Certificate was issued prematurely and whether a lengthier testing period should have
been envisaged.
Future project operation. KESH notes that the envisaged plant operation may vary
according to market conditions, but that the expectation is for 3000 hours of operation
during the summer period, putting the plant in conservation the rest of the time. This
confirms the doubts concerning the design of a combined cycle plant for such a low
capacity factor.

(b) Cofinanciers
The Bank concurs with EBRD’s comments regarding the lack of ownership with regard
to the project and the extreme reliance on the OE.


                                             14
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                      15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Combined cycle power plant                97.53           125.29                      128%
Technical assistance and training          4.85              4.69                      97%
            Total Baseline Cost          102.38           129.98                      127%
Physical Contingencies                     4.83              0.00                      0.00
Price Contingencies                        5.45              0.00                      0.00
             Total Project Costs         112.66           129.98                      115%
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00              0.00                      0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00              0.00                      0.00
      Total Financing Required           112.66 4         129.98                      115%




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                              Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                               millions)    millions)
 Borrowing Agency                                           12.66        0.87         6.9%
 Borrower                                                   0.00         0.00         0.00
 European Bank for Reconstruction
                                              Loan          48.7 (a)    51.39        105%
and Development
 EC: European Investment Bank                 Loan          48.7 (a)    53.04        109%
 International Development
                                              IDA Credit    25.00       24.68        99.7%
Association (IDA)
Total                                                       135.064     129.98       96.2%
(a) €40 million equivalent (mid 2004 exchange rate 1€=1.2179US$)




4
    The difference is due to exchange rate.



                                                     16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     Combined cycle power plant of 97MW fueled by distillate oil. Partially achieved:
the power plant is not operative due to failure of cooling water line.
2.       Technical assistance:
     •   Owner’s Engineer recommendations as documented in its quarterly reports:
         subcomponent output achieved
     •   Establishment of a subsidiary company to own the power plant (TEC-Vlore),
         Power Purchase Agreement, fuel purchase procedures: subcomponent output
         achieved.
     •   Oil spill contingency studies and training, Emergency Preparedness Procedures:
         subcomponent output achieved.
     •   Electricity Law: subcomponent output achieved.
     •   Report by independent consultants regarding improvements in inventory control:
         subcomponent output achieved.
     •   Report by independent consultants on asset evaluation: subcomponent output
         achieved.
                                      Performance indicators
                                                                                             Percent of
                          Baseline               Target                 Current
                                                                                              Target
Power Losses1               41.7%                 26.92%                  30.2%                89%
Collection Ratio1           80.4%                   85%                    68%                 80%
Tariffs        are   Weak      regulatory   New law passed       A new Law on                  100%
annually set by      framework with key     under        which   Regulation of the
independent          tariff     decisions   strengthened         Electricity Sector was
Regulator based      taken             by   Regulator            enacted in May 2003,
on a review of the   Government             determines tariffs   provided             for
associated costs                            based     on  cost   strengthening of the
                                            recovery and after   Regulator       (ERE),
                                            appropriate public   removed the authority
                                            consultation         of the Government to
                                                                 fix a price cap for
                                                                 electricity. The tariffs
                                                                 approval took place in
                                                                 December 2010 and
                                                                 June 2012. In 2010,
                                                                 the end users average
                                                                 tariff increase was
                                                                 13% for 2010 and 0%
                                                                 for 2011. There was
                                                                 0% tariff increase in
                                                                 2012.
Completion of the                           100% completed       Onshore works 100%         Not achieved
Vlore    Thermal                                                 completed. Offshore        on time.
Power Station                                                    works pending.




                                                   17
                                                                                                    Percent of
                              Baseline                Target                  Current
                                                                                                       Target
Energy Generated        0 GWh                   250    GWh       per   The      power     plant    Not achieved
from     Thermal                                annum out of 700       produced a net amount
Power Plant                                     GWh per annum its      of 57 GWh (8% of its
                                                normal capacity.       normal            yearly
                                                                       capacity)         during
                                                                       August-September-
                                                                       October, 2011.
Appropriate             Weak       regulatory   Independent            A new Law on                100%
Regulatory              framework with no       Regulator              Regulation of the
Framework               independent             Established;           Electricity Sector was
(Independent            Regulatory              Electricity Market     enacted in May 2003,
Regulator    and        Authority; lack of      Transactions taking    provided              for
Functioning             competitive             place                  strengthening of the
Electricity             electricity market                             Regulator        (ERE),
Market)                                                                removed the authority
                                                                       of the Government to
                                                                       fix a price cap for
                                                                       electricity          and
                                                                       provided for the full
                                                                       unbundling of the
                                                                       electricity sector. The
                                                                       Regulatory        Frame
                                                                       work is in place since
                                                                       May, 2009. Electricity
                                                                       market      transactions
                                                                       are taking place.
1
    KESH is no longer responsible for achievement of these indicators since the privatization of distribution




                                                        18
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


   Economic Analysis
   Methodology. The economic analysis seeks to find the Net Present Value and the
   Economic Internal Rate of Return of the Vlore investment, with the following costs and
   benefits:
       •   Costs: investment costs corrected for import duties (which do not constitute
           economic costs) according to payments to the EPC contractor during the
           construction period and until the in-service date; after the in-service date, costs
           include fixed operations and maintenance costs, and variable costs, which are
           mostly fuel costs.
       •   Benefits: the Vlore plant is mainly used as a backup generation during dry years
           when the production of KESH power plants and the imports of electricity are
           insufficient to cover demand. Under these circumstances, the benefits of the
           Vlore plant consist of substitution of self-generation from consumers who would
           otherwise produce using their own facilities. The benefits of the Vlore plant for
           any given year would consist of the energy and capacity substituted by its 97MW
           (the guaranteed capacity) less technical transmission and distribution costs
           weighted by the probability of a dry year.
   Economic Costs
   Investment costs. The following is the approximate distribution of costs over the
   construction period; these are payments which do not include taxes or duties and
   therefore constitute economic costs:
            Table A3.1—Investment Schedule and Economic Investment Costs
    Year      2005     2006    2007      2008      2009     2010      2011                 2012
Payments M€     1       0.2     12.4     43.6      56.1      6.9       4.3                  3.9
   Operating costs. Based on the operations and maintenance contract for Vlore, fixed
   operating costs are €3 million per year ($4 million), equivalent to €31 per kW per year.
   They include materials, personnel, but they exclude financial costs. Variable operating
   costs are essentially fuel costs which will vary according to the price of gas oil and the
   actual output of the plant. As of end 2011 the cost of gas oil can be estimated at $1,000
   per tonne. With a heat content of 44.5MJ/kg and the guaranteed heat rate of 7,490
   kJ/kWh (i.e. 5.94kWh/kg), the fuel cost of Vlore would be around $0.17/kWh. Assuming
   a base dispatch during a dry year with an 80 percent capacity factor (7000 hours/year),
   Vlore would generate around 679GWh at a total cost of 119M$ ($4 million fixed, $115
   million fuel).




                                               19
Economic Benefits. During a dry year businesses and industries would self generate
using low capital cost but high fuel cost equipment. Typical data for the type of
emergency equipment used under these circumstances:
               Unit capacity:                 250kW
               Unit cost:                     $500 per kW installed
               Capacity factor:                      20 percent (1,800 hours)
               Unit consumption:              250 g/kWh of diesel fuel
               Fuel cost, excluding taxes     198 Lek/L including 20% VAT and 37
                                              Lek/L excise tax
               Economic fuel cost             134 Lek/L ≈ € 1/L ≈ $1.35/L
               Equivalent energy cost                $1.5/kg
The capital cost of $500/kW is equivalent to an annual cost of $88/kW at 12% discount
rate. This yields the following costs for substitution equipment under dry year
conditions:
               Capital Cost:         $88/kW
               Generation:           1,800 kWh
               Capital cost equivalent:     $0.049/kWh
               Running fuel cost     $0.375/kWh
               Annual fuel cost      $675
               Total Annual cost     $763
               Equivalent cost              $0.42/kWh
If Vlore generates 679GWh, assuming 10 percent technical losses it would substitute
611GWh and would generate benefits of $256 million per year during a dry year.
Economic Analysis results. Depending on the probability of a dry year, the following
results are obtained for the NPV and EIRR:
                        Table A3.2—Economic Evaluation Results
        Probability of dry year         5%             10%                   20%
        (%)
        NPV (M$) @ 12%                  -56             -35                   6
        EIRR (%)                      0.47%             6%                  12.8%
The results show that the threshold rate of return of 12 percent is only reached when the
probability of a dry year is relatively high, around 20 percent. This disappointing result
is in good measure the consequence of the extensive delay in commissioning the Vlore
project: using a discount rate of 12 percent, the capital cost of the project if in service as
of January 2013 would be 212M$, of which 128M$ would be direct costs and the balance,
84M$, would be interest during construction. If the plant had come on line three years
earlier (in 2010), costs would have been around 152M$, with only $24 million of interest
during construction. The delays have cost $60 million in financial costs.
Additional Benefits. If the power plant can also be used for peak shaving, it can avoid
load shedding during high demand hours. Assuming that the plant peak shaves around 3
hours a day during weekdays, equivalent to around 780 hours a year, the resulting
economic results are shown in Table A3.3:



                                             20
              Table A3.3—Economic Evaluation Results with Peak Shaving
             Probability of dry year     5%          10%         20%
             (%)
             NPV (M$) @ 12%             1.26        21.93       63.26
             EIRR (%)                  12.17%       14.8%       19.1%
In this case, the additional benefits raise the economic results and the power plant yields a
positive NPV even under low probability of dry year conditions.
Financial Analysis
Methodology. The financial analysis seeks to find the Net Present Value and the
Financial Internal Rate of Return of the Vlore investment, with the following costs and
benefits:
   •   Costs: payments to the EPC contractor as shown in Table A3.1. during the
       construction period and until the in-service date; after the in-service date, costs
       include fixed operations and maintenance costs and variable costs, which are
       mostly fuel costs.
   •   Benefits: the financial benefits of the project include the income from its sales to
       KESH according to the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). In the case of Vlore,
       the PPA assures a fixed income to the plant of 16 million Lek/MW ($160/kW) per
       year, and a “pass-through? of variable fuel costs.
Cash flow. According to the PPA conditions, the variable fuel costs are compensated by
the pass-through charge to KESH. What is left is a cost flow of investment costs and
fixed operating costs, and a benefit flow of the fixed income assured to the plant, of $15.5
million per year. Under these circumstances, the financial NPV of the Vlore plant is
negative (minus 41.8M$) and the financial rate of return is just 4.5 percent.




                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
 Iftikhar Khalil          Program Team Leader                   ECSSD TTL
Richard Hamilton          Consultant Energy Economist           ECSSD
Kishore Nadkarni          Financial Analyst                     ECSSD
Olav Rex Christensen      Financial Management Specialist       HDNED
Bernard Baratz            Consultant Environmental Specialist   ECSSD
Angelica Fernandes        Procurement Analyst                   ECSSD
Greta Minxhozi            Operations Officer                    ECCAL
Yolanda Gedse             Program Assistant                     ECSSD
Junko Funahashi           Senior Counsel                        LEGEN
Rohit Mehta               Senior Finance Officer
Charles Chandler          Consultant                            ECSSD
Gary Stuggins             Lead Energy Economist                 ECCSD Peer Reviewer
John Kendall              Consultant                            ECSSD Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
Salvador Rivera           Senior Energy Specialist              ECSSD TTL
Gazmend Daci              Energy Specialist                     ECSSD
Fernando Lecaros          Consultant                            LCSEG ICR author
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                            MNSEG
Olav Rex Christensen      Senior Public Finance Specialist      HDNED
Angelica A. Fernandes     Consultant                            ECSO2 Procurement
Yolanda Litan Gedse       Program Assistant                     ECSSD
Elona Gjika               Financial Management Specialist       ECSOQ
Jonida Myftiu             Financial Management Specialist       ECSOQ
Artan Guxho               Senior Infrastructure Specialist      ECSS5
Richard E. Hamilton       Consultant                            CEUIF
Charles A. Husband        Consultant                            ECSS2
Kishore Nadkarni          Consultant                            ECSS2
Yadviga Viktorivna
                          Energy Economist
Semikolenova

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                           2                         7.45
  FY03                                          17                       127.46
  FY04                                          28                       170.41
  FY05                                                                     0.53
  FY06                                                                     0.00


                                           22
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
  FY07                                                                0.00
  FY08                                                                0.00
                         Total:           47                        305.85
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                0.00
  FY03                                                                0.00
  FY04                                      1                         9.25
  FY05                                     23                       108.80
  FY06                                     18                        90.06
  FY07                                     18                       102.73
  FY08                                                               53.16
  FY09                                                               44.52
  FY10                                                               50.86
  FY11                                                               75.96
  FY12                                                               62.91
                         Total:            60                       598.25




                                      23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                   25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower’s ICR was prepared by KESH together with the Owner’s Engineer (OE).
It contains valuable information organized as follows:
Objective. To improve the Albanian power system performance by reducing electricity
imports and reducing load shedding due to lack of electricity production (due to reduced
rainfall) and demand increases.
Power Plant Design and Implementation
Plant conceptual study. Conceptual studies were arranged by the financing banks,
which concluded that Albania required a combined cycle power plant of around 100MW
to run on fuel oil with the option to convert to gas. An ex-post point of view indicates
that a phased construction (i.e. initiating with a gas turbine and adding the steam turbine
at a later date or other alternatives) would have been more appropriate. However, in the
OE’s understanding, once gas is made available the value of the investment may increase;
in case a gas pipeline is delayed, the OE feels that an LNG terminal in Vlore would pay
off.
Tendering and EPC contract. The tendering documents were issued early 2004 and the
first offers received in spring 2005. The tendering phase was extended 6 times with the
last bid validity extension in December 2006. The EPC contract had to be based on a
World Bank standard that was apparently not suitable for power plants, but the banks
objected in utilizing FIDIC (Fédération Internationale des Ingénieurs Conseil), which is
a world wide used and well accepted standard for power plant contracts. This World
Bank standard lacked the leverage necessary to enforce Kesh’s rights and correct
information flow, allowing the contractor to hide significant faults, creating some of the
major defects. A special drawback of this contract structure is the situation between
mechanical completion and commissioning. The bank standard does not recognize that in
a power plant the commissioning and testing phase is the most crucial part and only at
that time do major flaws come to light.
Contract award. During the bidding evaluation, the Consultant recommended to have
the contract with one of the bidders, based on the lower power production costs with
regards to fuel prices (not yet considering that KESH is to pay fuel taxes) and the greater
experience in building such plants. The Bank insisted on changing this evaluation for the
benefit of another bidder —henceforth designated as Contractor— reasoning the fuel
price would remain below 30 USD/barrel in the long run. The OE’s opinion is that the
EPC contract was awarded to the company offering the lowest price instead of following
a complete tender evaluation considering also the consequential costs of the project and
the experience of the Contractor.
Engineering. The engineering process was delayed, although the initial quality of the
EPC contractor’s engineering was good. However, when it came to passing from the
conceptual design into the detailed design of the plant, Contractor reduced the number of
engineering staff, which resulted in delays, a lower quality of submitted documents and
lack of responsiveness to comments from the OE. Some transmitted documents were
poor in quality. Contractor failed to adequately coordinate the activities of their


                                            26
subcontractors, and ensure that all equipment was correctly interfaced which is
considered one of the most important activities of an EPC project. Due to lack of
Contractor experienced personnel and in order to overcome the accumulated project
delay, several detailed engineering activities were performed ad hoc and on site. The
supervision of these activities, such as the modification of the waste water system or the
detailed engineering of the condenser vacuum breaker, was not always possible by the
OE, since they were presented with the design only after implementation.
Procurement. In general, procurement of the main equipment (i.e. the onshore works)
was on time or early according to the project schedule. Despite several request from
KESH and the OE to Contractor to initiate the activities on time, the procurement for the
offshore activities was postponed for about 1 ½ years taking into consideration the risks
for construction during adverse weather conditions in the winter periods. The
procurement of small equipment and material (e.g. valves, pipe supports, etc.) was
delayed mainly due to the late availability of specification documentation or by
contractor negligence. As a consequence Contractor purchased alternative equipment at
higher cost and sometimes lower quality.
Construction/Erection. Contractor initiated site construction activities in August 2007.
Very slow progress was made on site from the beginning, which resulted in a
considerable delay against the contractual time schedule. The major causes behind the
delay included: (i) insufficient planning, (ii) postponement of activities by the contractor,
(iii) delays in submitting drawings for construction, (iv) insufficient engineering
(particularly interface management), (v) late delivery of minor materials and components,
(vi) poor quality work, and (vii) incapacity of contractor to manage subcontractors.
Apart from the delays, there were ultimately hardly any serious problems during the
construction phase. The completion of construction and erection activities according to
the original schedule was foreseen for the end of November 2008. At that time the status
of the site was approximately that expected in June 2008 per the Project Schedule. The
biggest single contractor fault with a lasting impact on the project was the contractor’s
decision to start with off shore works only in September 2008 instead of March 2008,
against the strong advice from the OE. Off shore works in Winter caused many
interruptions to the works, low possibilities for quality assurance due to turbidity of the
water and finally incomplete installations. The reasons for this delay are unknown ( the
necessary material was available on site in time.
Commissioning. A complete commissioning of the plant has never been performed due
to the off shore problems overwhelming the ability of Contractor’s project team to cope.
The plant has mainly been turned on with limited pretesting and often by trial and error.
The consequences of this methodology were characterized by repetitive failure up to the
damage of the equipment. When commissioning started in the summer of 2009 it became
evident that the off shore structures erection had not been completed and had significant
faults. Commissioning was severely disrupted and limited by continuous problems with
and failures of the Cooling Water (CW) systems. The CW system failed totally in
October and all commissioning work stopped for 5 months. Commissioning re-started
with a temporary water intake structure that lasted until commissioning and testing was
nearly completed. At the end of that time even though the plant was still nowhere near to
be ready to run commercially it was agreed that KESH would make available sufficient


                                             27
fuel to allow the contractor to carry out an internal performance test required by their sub
contracts. The tests appeared to show that the plant had a sufficient performance level to
pass the contract performance tests. After finalization of offshore repairs in June 2011,
the contractor started the de-conservation of the plant and recommenced commissioning
for a second time.
Performance testing. The plants’s power output and heat rate were successfully tested
on 17 August 2011. According to the performance test results the Net Power Output is
101374 kW and the Net Power Heat Rate is 7084 kJ/kWh. Consequently the plant values
are better than the contractual values (97170 kW and 7490 kJ/kWh). During the
performance tests, the plant respected the limitations imposed by the contract on gaseous
pollutant emissions as shown in the following table:
                              units     Guarantee Value               Measured Value              Guarantee
                                      (base load/min load)          (base load/min load)            Met ?

   NOx (@ 15% vol. O2 dry)   mg/Nm3   120 / 120              66.85 / 104.72                      yes

   CO (@ 15% vol. O2 dry)    mg/Nm3   100 / 100              2.36 / 3.77                         yes

   PM10 (@ 3% vol. O2 dry)   mg/Nm3   50 / 50                0.120 / 1.378 (measured in 2010).   (yes)

The particulate emissions were not measured due to the failure of the dust measuring
instrumentation which shall be replaced during the warranty period. Contractor has also
demonstrated that the noise values are in according with the contract and with the
applicable decrees and laws excepting a high sound value in the power house. As a
remedy, Contractor proposed to declare the whole power house as a restricted area.
Reliability run. The reliability of the Plant has been proved by running under nominal
commercial operation for an agreed period. Commercial operation includes, at the
Owner's discretion, part load operation, restarts or other conditions for which the Plant is
designed. The first stage started on 29 August 2011. KESH accepted that during the first
two stages of the reliability run, some Contractor internal tests could be executed in
parallel in order to speed up the finalization of the plant. In fact extensive work was
continued into the 3rd period resulting in several failures and re-starts. The third and last
stage was finally achieved on 28th of October 2011.
Operational experience. The Operational Acceptance certificate (OAC) was issued on
October 28th 2011 after the completion of the Trial Run. Subsequently, due to a leak of
fuel oil, the plant was on standstill until January 2012. After diesel oil delivery during
Christmas 2012, the plant was restarted on January 6th 2012 to finalize the last tests and
to check some of the agreed improvements. During the night of January 7th 2012 the
cooling water intake pipe collapsed and tripped the plant causing the standstill of the
plant up to the present time. The operational experiences of the plant are therefore
reduced to the times during commissioning and during the functional test phases.
Without considering the complete failure of the seawater line, the plant operation
reliability and performance were acceptable.




                                                    28
Performance evaluation
Financiers. The WB in particular and also the other co financiers EBRD and EIB have
followed step by step the implementation of the Project, through on-site visits and also at
KESH’s headquarters office. The Banks were very sensitive to the environmental impact
of the Project. During Project implementation the KESH PMU gained a lot of experience
in environment management. This was achieved by stages as described below.
Environmental considerations
The project was classified as category A by the WB. A full-scale Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) was put in place by KESH. The EMP defined the measures
needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse impacts, to improve
environmental performance and to ensure compliance with applicable environmental
standards during both the construction and operation of the plant.
During the construction phase the plan provided for dust, noise and water discharge
monitoring, etc. There was no any activity on site with significant environmental impact,
civil activity was minimal; there was no dust around, or any storing and fueling of vans
and other tools which might cause hydrocarbon contaminations on site.
Special attention was paid to the risk of oil spills during shipping, unloading and transfer
of fuel to on-site storage. An Oil Spill Response plan was prepared, and a workshop was
held by a specialized consultant. Responses were classified according to the degree of
the emergency: Tier 1 emergencies are contained locally using specialized equipment
(containment boom, skimmer and ancillaries, spill kits containing oil spill sorbent pads,
pillows for drain, and sand to be spread). For more severe Tier 2 emergencies, an
understanding is in place between the power plant and the Southern Naval Flotilla to
assist the facility. Tier 3 spills are extremely large and affect a wide area, and
international Tier 3 resources are required; Albania is a member of different conventions
which assure international assistance under these circumstances.
Terrestrial Ecology was also addressed by carefully removing vegetation and undertaking
a large replanting effort, including all trees cut for the 20kV line.
Future project operation
Envisaged plant operation will be according the energy market situation on the Balkan
and accordantly the fuel piece and availability (fuel oil or fuel gas). The actual target is
approximately 3000 operation hours per year during the summer period. The rest of the
year the plant shall be put in conservation.
The preconditions for a future upgrade from distillate oil firing to natural gas firing are
already implemented. With this upgrade the economic aspect of the plant could be
ameliorated and an increment of planned operational hours could turn bankable.
Due to the first experiences with the new KESH subsidiary company TEC, it will be very
difficult to operate the plant with the available staff. It is therefore recommended
replacing the current O&M support contract with a full O&M by a reputed international
company which would guarantee the future smooth and safe operation of the plant. The
higher costs may be compensated by a better availability.




                                            29
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Comments were received from EBRD:
   •   The EBRD remains highly concerned about the unresolved implementation
       issues.
   •   The project implementation was characterised by a serious lack of Project
       Ownership and Project Management by the Borrower despite support given
       through Technical Assistance during the entire process (project concept,
       feasibility studies, tender documents, supervision).
   •   In dealing with implementation issues the Borrower was always seeking the co-
       financiers' advice rather than taking the leadership for finding a solution. Such
       lack of implementation capacity could not be substituted by just having an
       Owners Engineer.

EIB examined the document but found nothing to add to it.




                                          30
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Albania—Power Sector Generation and Restructuring Project Project Appraisal
Document, February 2004
Albania—Country Economic Memorandum, November 2010
A Stocktaking Assessment of the Albanian Power Market: Reform Progress and Market
Monitoring—Final Report, AF-Mercados EMI, April 2012
Sector Review: Energy—Albania, Austrian Energy Agency, February 2006
Review of Electricity Supply and Demand in Southeast Europe, World Bank Working
Paper No. 17, 2004
Supervision Aide Memoires and Project /Implementation Status Reports




                                         31
                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33359R1
                                          19°E                                                                    20°E                                                                        21°E
                                                 MONTENEGRO


                                                                                     Maja Jezercë
                                                                                        (2693 m)              Valbona
                                                                                                              Valbon
                                                                                                                                                                                   KOSOVO
                                                                             MALSI E            lps
                                                                                       banian A
        ALBANIA                                                               North Al      TROPOJË
                                                         To
                                                  Podgorica
                                                                             MADHE                  Bajram
                                                                          Han i Hoti                                        Curri
                                                                          Koplik                                            Dri
                                                                                                                  Fierzë       n
                                                                                                                                            HAS                          To
                                                         Lake                     SHKODËR                                                                                Prizren
                                                        Scutari                                                                                   Krumë
                                                                                                              PUKË
                                                                             Shkodër                     Koman
                                                                             (Scutari)
                                                                                                            Pukë           Fush                           Kukës
                                                                                                                           Arrëz        Kalimash
42°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42°N
                                                                                                                                          KUKËS
                                                         Bunë

                                                                                       LEZHË                                        Zall-Rec
                                                                                                         MIRDITË
                                                                          Shëngjin
                                                                   Drinit Bay                     Rubik




                                                                                                                                          Drin i Zi
                                                                                                                     Kurbneshi
                                                                              Lezhë                         Rrëshen
                                                                                                                    Lake                Peshkopi
                                                                                                Shkopet             Ulzës
                                                                  Fushë Kuge           Laç                 Ulëz
                                                                                                                    Burrel
                                                                   Rodonit Bay
                                                                                     LAÇ                                                DIBRA
                                                                                             Mamurasi             M AT
                                                                                                   Krujë
                                                                   Lalëzit
                      Adriatic                                      Bay                     KRUJË                                                                                       FY R
                                                                    DURRËS
                                                                                             Fushë
                                                                                             Krujë
                                                                                                                            Bulquizë
                                                                                                                                    BULQIZË
                                                                                                                                                                                    MA CEDON I A
                               Sea                        Durrës                        Vorë
                                                                                        Vo rë
                                                                                                         TIRANË
                                                                                                         (TIRANA)
                                                                                   Shijak
                                                                  Durrësit                      TIRANË
                                                                   Bay                                         Ibë
                                                                                                                                             Librazhd                    To
                                                                    Kavajë                                           Krrabë                                            Struga
                                                                                                                                          LIBRAZHD
                                                                   KAVAJË                                                    Elbasan
                                                                                                PEQIN                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                    Vidhës
                                                                                                                    Vid hës                           Perrenjas
41°N                                                                                             Peqin                                                                          Ohrid
                                                                                                                     ELBASAN                                                                                           41°N
                                                         Karavastasë                  HNJË
                                                                                L U S HN                           Cërrik
                                                            Bay
                                                                                  Lushnjë                                                                POGRADEC                                   Lake
                                                                                                          Kajan                                                                                    Prespa
                                                                                                                                       Gramsh                Pogradec

                                                                                                   KUÇOVË                         GRAMSH
                                                                     FIER                                   Kuçovë
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Little
                                                                           Fier                                   Berat                                                                                      Lake Prespa
                                                                                         Marinzë
                                                                                      Patos                                                                             Maliq            DEVOLL
                                                                                                           B E R AT                                         K O R Ç Ë Korçë
                                                                Kafaraj
                                                                                                Ballsh                                                                                       Bilisht
                                                                                   Vjosë
                                                                                             MALLA-                                      APAR
                                                                                                                                   S K R APA R
 0     10        20    30      40 Kilometers
                                                                                             KASTER
                                                                                                                                        Çorovodë
                                                                                     Selenice
 0          10            20         30 Miles                    Vlorës      Vlorë                   TE P E L E N Ë
                                                                  Bay
                                                                                                     Krahës                                                                 Ersekë
                                        19°E                                        Mavrovë
                                                                                                                                    PËRMET
                                                                             VLORË                                                                               KOLONJË
                                                                                                         Tepelenë Kelcyrë
                                                                                                                                                      Përmet
        ALBA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                 P




                                                                                                                                                                                          GREE CE
                                                                                                                                                         Vjo


                                                                                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                                                                           ë s



                                                                                                                                                                       du




                                                                                                                       J I R OK AS TË R
                                                                                                                     G JI
                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                           s




                                                                                                                                    Gjirokastër
                                                                                                                                                                                M




                 DISTRICT CAPITALS
                                                      40°N                                                   DELVINË                                                                                                   40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                   ou




                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                 Delvinë
                                                                                                                                                                                     nt




                                                                                                                                                                To
                 RIVERS                                                                                                                                      Ioánina
                                                                                                                                                                                        ai




                                                                                                         Sarandë
                 MAIN ROADS                                                                                                            Kakavija
                                                                                                                                                                                          n




                                                                             GREECE
                                                                                                                                                                                            s




                 RAILROADS                                                                                                 SARANDË
                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                  20°E                                                                            21°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JULY 2009
