CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 249-IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Haryana Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 249-IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Haryana Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1971, between INDIA, act-
ing by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Haryana, the State of Hary..
has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of
the carrying out of the Project;
(C) By an agreement of even date herewith among the
Association, Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the Har-
yana State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank Limited, and
The Haryana Agro-Industries Corporation Limited, certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project
have been undertaken by Agricultural Refinance Corpora-
tion, the Haryana State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank
Limited and The Haryana Agro-Industries Corporation
Limited; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
Now THEREFORE the p'arties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to


﻿4
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, howover, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions) :
(a) Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b) Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) be-
comes 6.02 (h);
(c) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows: "5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by
its President.";
(d) The following paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The terms 'Project Agreement' and 'Haryana Agree-
ment' have the meaning set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(e) The words ", the Project Agreement and the Har-
yana Agreement" are added after the words "the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings there-
in set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "Haryana" means the State of Haryana, a state of
India, or any successor thereof.
(b) "ARC" means Agricultural Refinance Corporation,
a statutory corporation established and organized under the
laws of the Borrower.
(c) "LMB" means the Haryana State Co-operative Land


﻿Mortgage Bank Limited, a cooperative society established
and organized under the laws of Haryana.
(d) "HAIC" means The Haryana Agro-Industries Cor-
poration Limited, a corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower.
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association, ARC, LMB and
HAIC, and all Schedules thereto, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(f) "Haryana Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between Haryana and the Association, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and ARC pursu-
ant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, and all Schedules
thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to
time with the approval of the Association.
(h) "Agricultural Loan" means any loan made or pro-
posed to be made to a Beneficiary and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(i) "Beneficiary" means (i) any person or enterprise
carrying out farm custom work in the territory of Haryana,
or (ii) any farmer, group of farmers or cooperative so-
c" ty, carrying out farm work in the territory of Haryana
which is eligible to receive an Agricultural Loan.
(j) "Participating Bank" means any bank, listed in the
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934,
which has entered into an agreement with ARC in accord-
ance with Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
(k) "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Mort-
gage Bank which is a member of LMB and which has
entered into an agreement with LMB in accordance with
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal
shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other
than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1975
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 17) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1,
1981 and ending March 1, 2021, each installment to and


﻿7
including the installment payable on March 1, 1991 to be
one-half of one per cent (    of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one ane one-
half per cent (12%o) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or
cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, agri-
cultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon any of the
obligations of the Borrower set forth in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall take all action including,
in particular, without reconsideration. of the eligibility of
the items for importation, the granting of all necessary
licenses, foreign exchange permits and other approvals re-
quired to ensure the prompt importation of the following:
(i) that part of the equipment listed in paragraphs 1
and 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement that may be
procured from outside the territories of the Bor-
rower in accordance with the provisions contained in
Schedule 3 to this agreement;
(ii) initial spare parts for the tractors and harvesting
machinery imported under the Project in an amount
equal to 15%  of the c.i.f. price thereof; and
(iii) for a period of four years commencing three years
after the disbursement date in respect of each con-
signment of tractors or harvesting machinery fi-
nanced under the Credit, spare parts for such equip-


﻿8
ment in an annual amount equal to 10o of the c.i.f.
price of tractors and harvesting machinery imported
pursuat to subparagraph (i) hereof or such lesser
amount as may from time to time be agreed to be-
tween the Borrower and the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Association of the
firms eligible to bid for tractors pursuant to paragraph
1(a) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, at the time of each
invitation to bid.
(d) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on terms and conditions (including inter alia
those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement) satisfac-
tory to the Association for the purpose of relending to
ARC for relending to LMB and Participating Banks the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit, including the
counterpart funds generated by the sale of initial spare
parts to dealers. The Borrower shall exercise its rights
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any proviC!on thereof.
(e) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
SECTON 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause
all its agencies to take all action which shall be necessary
on their part to enable (i) Haryana to perform all its
obligations under the Haryana Agreement, and (ii) ARC,
LMB and HAIC to perform their obligations under the
Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of
its agencies to take any action which would prevent or in-
terfere with the performance of any such obligations of
Haryana, ARC, LMB or HAIC.
SECTION 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause
to be insured, 'or make, or cause to be made, adequate pro-


﻿9
vision for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods. The Bor-
rower shall keep the Association informed of such insur-
ance arrangements.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the Project.
SECTION 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit under Categories II, III and IV of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the tractor im-
plements described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement to be made available to Beneficaries in suffi-
cient quantities and in time for the proper execution of
the Project; and shall cause sufficient hard steel of the
proper quality to be made available for use in manufactur-
ing the necessary plough bottoms, discs and springs.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC and
LMB to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
their operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ARC and LMB to: (i) es-
tablish and maintain separate accounts in respect of all


﻿10
funds disbursed and received on account of the Project;
(ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) fur-
nish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning their
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the performance
by Haryana of its obligations under the Haryana Agree-
ment, the performance by ARC, LMB and HAIC of their
obligations under the Project Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of ARC, LMB and
HAIC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating
to the purposes,of the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information


﻿11
shall include information with respect to financial and
economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower, in-
cluding its balance of payments, and the external debt of
the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and of
any agency of the Borrower or of any such political sub-
division.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably requcst concerning the
operations and financial condition of ARC, LMB and
HAIC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obliga-
tions under the Development Credit A.greement, the per-
formance by Haryana of its obligations under the Haryana
Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, or the performance by LMB and HAIC of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed. under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in,effect in its territories.


﻿12
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the
Haryana Agreement and the Project Agreement shall be
free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any -such declara-
tion such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) Haryana shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Haryana Agreement; ARC, LMB or
HAIC shall have failed to perform any of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement; or ARC shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) Haryana will be able to


﻿13
perform its obligations under the Haryana Agreement, or
(ii) ARC, LMB or HAIC will be able to perform their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, or
(iii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) Any event specified in Section 7.02 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower and the defaulting party.
(b) ARC, LMB or HAIC shall have become unable to
pay any of their debts as they mature or any action or pro-
ceeding shall have been taken by ARC, LMB or HAIC or
by others whereby any of the property of ARC, LMB or
HAIC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ARC, LMB or HAIC or for the sus-
pension of their operation.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Haryana Agree-
ment on behalf of Haryana have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
(b) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of ARC, LMB and HAIC, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.


﻿14
(c) The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ARC, respec-
tively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action.
(d) The execution and delivery of the Agreement be-
tween ARC and LMB which is referred to in Section 2.02
(c) of the Project Agreement, on behalf of ARC and LMB,
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(e) LMB shall have appointed an agricultural economist
and a chief inspecting officer, who, together with the two
inspecting officers already at post, shall be responsible for
the overall guidance, control, and training of land valua-
tion officers.
SECTION 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) 'of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Haryana Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, Haryana and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of Haryana in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
ARC, LMB and HAIC respectively, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of ARC, LMB and HAIC in ac-
cordance with its terms;
(c) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and ARC respectively, and con-
stitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower
and ARC in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the agreement between ARC and LMB which
is referred to in Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement


﻿15
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, ARC and LMB, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of ARC and LMB in accord-
ance with its terms.
SECTION 8.03. The date September 30, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.04. On termination of the Project Agreement
in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the Bor-
rower with respect to the Project shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or
Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower or the Director of the Depart-
ment of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representa- *ve
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecof airs
New Delhi


﻿16
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By   /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the per-
centage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in     % of Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
I. Loans for minor            4,400,000    46% of loans disbursed
irrigation                              by LMB and Participat-
ing Banks for minor
irrigation
II. Imported tractors         17,400,000    100% of foreign expen-
ditures
III. Self-propelled combines      500,000    100% of total expendi-
and tractor-drawn                       tures
harvesters
IV. Initial spare parts         2,700,000
for
A. Tractors                            100% of foreign expen-
ditures
B. Self-propelled                      100% of total expendi-
combines                            tures
C. Tractor-drawn                       100% of total expendi-
harvesters                         tures
TOTAL           25,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the


﻿18
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in ithe currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importatioin, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable not of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes; and
(c) expenditures for freight and insurance within the
territories of the Borrower with respect to goods financed
pursuant to Categories III and IV (B) and (C).
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the estimate of the expenditures under
Category II, III or IV shall decrease, the amount of the
Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer re-
quired therefor will be reallocated by the Association (sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other Cate-
gories) by increasing correspondingly the amount allocated


﻿19
to Category I and the Association may, at the request of
the Borrower, increase correspondingly (up to a maximum
of 100% net of taxes) the percentage applicable to Cate-
gory I.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above or the provisions
of paragraph 4 above, if the estimate of total expenditures
under Category I shall increase and no proceeds of the
Credit are available for reallocation to that Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above, if any contract for the procurement of any
item included in Categories II through IV shall have been
awarded according to procedures inconsistent with those set
forth or referred to in Schedule 3 of this Agreement, or if
the Association shall have reasonably objected to any such
contract on the ground that the procurement procedure fol-
lowed is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in such Schedule 3 or if the terms and condi-
tions of any such contract shall, without the Association's
prior concurrence, materially differ from those on the basis
of which bids were asked, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and
correspondingly reduce the amount allocated to the relevant
Category, as the Association shall reasonably determine to
represent the portion of the expenditures under such con-
tract which would have been eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit, had the procurement procedures
followed not been inconsistent with those set forth or
referred to in such!Schedule.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of a lending program for agri-
cultural development in Haryana, consists of :
A. A three year program to finance investments in minor
irrigation (tube wells and sprinkler irrigation) and farm
mechanization for Beneficiaries granted by Primary Banks
and Participating Banks, which loans will be refinanced
in accordance with the terms and conditions of Schedule 5
of this Agreement, and with -the Project Agreement.
B. The provision of spare parts for tractors and harvest-
ing machinery.


﻿2t
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
The Borrower will establish a special committee (here-
inafter called the Committee) for the purpose of directing
the procurement of goods under the Project. The Commit-
tee shall consist of representatives of the Borrower (one
of whom shall be the chairman), the Government of Hary-
ana and ARC.
Under the Committee's direction, HAIC will organize
procurement of equipment eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the following
procedures:
1. Tractors and Spare Parts for tractors
(a) HAIC will obtain quotations for lots of at least 500
tractors in order to import about 6,000 tractors. Quotations
will be sought by public invitation, on unit prices at varying
quantities, from those suppliers in Bank member countries
and Switzerland who have established tractor manufactur-
ing facilities in India, or have obtained necessary approvals
of the Borrower, for the manufacture of tractors in India,
prior to the date on which quotations are sought. Before
bids are invited the Committee will furnish to the Associa-
tion, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid,
the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures and cover-
age to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Association may reasonably request.
(b) HAIC will require all suppliers submitting quota-
tions to give full particulars as to proposed pre-sales and
after-sales service arrangements, including provision for
initial spare parts equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of trac-
tors supplied. Any supplier not providing satisfactory as-
surances as to service arrangements would be disqualified
by the Committee.


﻿22
(c) HAIC will advertise through LMB and the Partici-
pating Banks the quoted prices and the service 'arrange-
ments offered by the different suppliers. Beneficiaries will
be required to state to the Primary Bank or the Participat-
ing Bank for transmittal to HAIC their choices, in order
of preference, of, and at the 'same time apply for an Agri-
cultural Loan for, tractors which they will be willing to
buy. Loan applications will be processed in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule I to the Project Agreement.
(d) HAIC will aggregate the orders received, according
to first tractor choices. If the aggregate orders for the par-
ticular model come to below the minimum acceptable order
for that manufacturer at the unit prices quoted for vary-
ing quantities, the Committee will discard the first choice
for those farmers and proceed on the basis of second or
other choices. After approval by the Committee, HAIC
will -send to the Association its analysis of bids and a state-
ment ;of farmers' choices and its recommendations before
orders are placed. The Association shall promptly inform
the Committee whether it has any objections to the in-
tended placement of orders and shall state the reasons
for any objections it may have.
(e) HAIC will subsequently place orders with the se-
lected suppliers 'at the unit prices quoted. HAIC also will
enter into contracts with the selected suppliers or their
agents which would specify service arrangements and per-
formance assurances including the -supply 'of spare parts.
Agents representing suppliers will be required to sell post-
warranty 'service.
(f) HAIC will arrange through the suppliers' represen-
tatives in India for the importation, insurance and trans-
portation 'to Haryana of tractors. HAIC will arrange for
the distribution of tractors to agents designated by the
suppliers who would perform pre-sales services and sell
the tractors to Beneficiaries. HAIC may charge agents a
fee for its 'services.


﻿(g) Suppliers will be required to maintain stocks of spare
parts referred to under paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule
by a designated representative in a central store to be
released through agents for tractors imported under the
Project.
2. Self-propelled combines and tractor-drawn harvesters,
and spare parts therefor
Self-propelled combines, tractor-drawn harvesters and
spare parts for self-propelled combines and tractor-drawn
harvesters 'shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in August, 1969, through arrange-
ments to be established by the Committee. Bids would only
be sought against approved loan applications -v.ich would
then be bulked to a value of at least $100,000 equivalent
excluding the value of associated spare parts for pur-
chase by dealers. The Committee will require all suppliers
submitting quotations to give full particulars as to proposed
pre-sales and after sale service. Arrangements would in-
clude provision for initial spare parts equal to 15o of the
c.i.f. price of the harvesting machinery supplied.
3. For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and asso-
ciated services included in Categories III and TV (B) and
(C) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, bid prices shall be 'determined and compared
in accordance with the following rules:
(a) The term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the Borrower
for goods manufactured or processed to a substantial ex-
tent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign
Bid ".
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum
of the following amounts:


﻿24
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery
of such goods to the place of their use or installa-
tion.
(c) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with
any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be
the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii) the amount of any taxes on the importation of such
goods into the territories of the Borrower which
generally apply to non-exempt importers, or 15o
of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever shall
be the lower; and
(iii) handling costs, inland freight, insurance and other
costs of delivery of such goods to the place of their
use or installation.
S


﻿25
SCHEDULE 4
Equipment Required for the Project
1. Tractors in the 25-55 hp range.
2. Tractor Implements: basic tillage implements, disc har-
rows (with hard steel discs) and ploughs (with hard steel
plough bottoms), mould-board ploughs, spring-tine culti-
vators (with hard steel springs), seed and fertilizer
drills, levelling blades, tractor-mounted power sprayers
and trailers.
3. Harvesting Machinery: self-propelled   combines and
tractor-drawn harvesters.
4. Spare parts for tractors and harvesting machinery.
5. Pumps, electric motors, electric connections, tubes for
g                     tubewells, and sprinkler irrigation sets.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms of Relending Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and condi-
tions under which the proceeds of the Credit or the equiv-
alent thereof shall be lent to ARC by the Borrower:
(a) Term: 9 years.
(b) Repayment Terms: One lump sum repayment for
each drawing by ARC at the end of the respective
term of the Loan.
(c) Interest Rates: 5% per annum with 1/4% rebate for
prompt payment of interest and principal.
(d) The counterpart funds generated by the sale of
initial :spare parts to dealers shall be used only for
making loans for minor irrigation.
(e) Exchange Risk: for account of India.


