CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 249-IN
Project Agreement
(Haryana Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
THE HARYANA STATE CO-OPERATIVE
LAND MORTGAGE BANK LIMITED
AND
THE HARYANA AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
LIMITED
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 249-IN
Project Agreement
(Haryana Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
THE HARYANA STATE CO-OPERATIVE
LAND MORTGAGE BANK LIMITED
AND
THE HARYANA AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
LIMITED
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1971 between INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
(hereinafter called ARC) and THE HARYANA STATE CO-
OPERATIVE LAND MORTGAGE BANK LIMITED (hereinafter called
LMB) and THE HARYANA AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called HAIC).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith between India, acting by its President, (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Association (here-
inafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement),
the Association has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition inter alia that ARC, LMB and HAIC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and the State of Haryana, the State of
Haryana has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, LMB and HAIC, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agree-
ment with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;


﻿4
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and the term "Rs" means rupees in
the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
SECTION 2.01. ARC, LMB and HAIC shall carry out the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, financial and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement with the Borrower on terms and condi-
tions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 5 to
the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the
Association. ARC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b) ARC shall invite banks listed in the Second Schedule
to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, to participate in
the Project, other than making and obtaining refinancing
of loans for sprinkler irrigation sets. ARC shall within six


﻿5
months after the date of this Agreement determine which
of said banks shall so participate, the scope of such par-
ticipation and the date on which such participation shall
commence.
(c) ARC shall enter into agreements with LMB and each
bank selected by it in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement on terms and conditions (including inter
alia those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
(d) ARC shall instruct Participating Banks to maintain
separate accounts for Project lending.
SECTION 2.03. LMB shall enter into an agreement with
each Primary Land Mortgage Bank on terms and conditions
(including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement) satisfactory to ARC.
SECTION 2.04. The operating policies and procedures for
carrying out the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Association, ARC, LMB
and HAIC.
SECTION 2.05. ARC shall take all such measures as shall
be necessary to ensure that appraisals of Agricultural
Loans are in conformity with agreed lending criteria and
to ensure that no more than one Agricultural Loan is
granted for the same investment.
SECTIoN 2.06. LMB shall provide each Primary Bank
with a qualified manager and technical officer within twelve
months after the Effective Date.
SECTION 2.07. HAIC shall organize the procurement of
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿6
SECTION 2.08. (a) HAIC shall cause all imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, or ensure that adequate provision is made for the
insurance thereof, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods. HAIC shall keep the Association in-
formed of such insurance arrangements.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ARC, and, as the case may be, LMB and HAIC, shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit under Categories II, III and IV of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and tractor implements
and trailers acquired for the purposes of the Project, to be
used exclusively for the Project.
SECTION 2.09. ARC and LMB: (i) shall maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and -services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to them
by the Borrower and by ARC, respectively, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Asso-
ciation's representatives to inspect the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to them and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
SECTION 2.10. ARC and LMB shall at all times charge
interest on all of their loans at rates sufficient to enable
ARC and LMB, respectively, to (a) cover all operating
expenditures and charges including taxes (if any) and
interest payments on borrowings; and (b) maintain ade-


﻿7
quate provisions for bad debts and maintain adequate gen-
eral reserves in accordance with sound commercial practice.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC, LMB and HAIC
SECTION 3.01. ARC, LMB and HAIC shall:
(a) At all times manage their affairs, maintain their
financial position, plan their future expansion and carry
on their operations, all in accordance with sound business
and financial practices and under the supervision of expe-
rienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number.
(b) Take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
review all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of their business or
in the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 3.02. Save as the Association shall otherwise
agree, LMB, Primary Banks and Participating Banks shall
apply the same criteria to all similar types of lending that
they apply to Project lending and, with respect to such
similar types of lending, shall not offer more favorable
terms of lending than are offered under Project lending
except for schemes submitted under the aegis of the Small
Farmers Development Agency in Haryana.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
SECTION 4.01. ARC, LMB and HAIC shall maintain rec-
ords adequate to reflect in 'accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices their operations and
financial condition.
SECTION 4.02. ARC and LMB shall: (i) establish and
maintain separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed


﻿8
and received on account of the Project; (ii) have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said separate accounts and their financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association. such other information con-
cerning their accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
SECTION 4.03. LMB shall cause the accounts of the Pri-
mary Banks to continue to be audited by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Association.
SECTION 4.04. ARC shall require the separate Project
accounts of the Participating Banks to be audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Association, ARC, LMB and HAIC
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
ARC, LMB and HAIC shall from time to time, at the re-
quest of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the performance of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of ARC, LMB or HAIC
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.


﻿9
SECTION 5.02. The Association, ARC, LMB and HAIC
shall promptly inform each other of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the perform-
ance by any of them of its obligations under this Agreement
or the performance by the Borrower and ARC of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
SECTION 5.03. ARC, LMB and HAIC, respectively, shall
enable the Association's representatives to inspect all their
records and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
SECTION 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and ARC, LMB and HAIC thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a, date when all principal amounts withdrawn by
ARC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
interest thereon shall have been repaid by ARC to
the Borrower.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify ARC, LMB and HAIC of this event and,
upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obli-
gations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.


﻿10
SECTION 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 7.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radio-
gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to
be given or made at such party's address hereinafter speci-
fied or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
hated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shreeniketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India


﻿11
Cable address:
Agrefinans
Bombay
For LMB:
The Haryana State Co-operative Land
Mortgage Bank Limited
Chandigarh
India
Cable address:
Krishibank
Chandigarh
India
For HAIC
Managing Director
The Haryana Agro-Industries Corporation
Limited
Kothi No. 8, Sector 9
Chandigarh
India
Cable address:
Haragin
Chandigarh
India
SECTION 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement on behalf of (i) ARC may be
taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing;
(ii) LMB may be taken or executed by its Managing Direc-
tor or such other person or persons as LMB shall designate
in writing; and (iii) HAIC may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as
HAIC shall designate in writing.


﻿SECTION 7.03. ARC, LMB and HAIC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC, LMB and HAIC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by ARC, LMB and HAIC, respec-
tively, pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssociATioN
By   /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
AGRICULUTRAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative


﻿13
THE HARYANA STATE CO-OPERATIVE LAND
MORTGAGE BANI LIMITED
By /s/ L. K. JHA
.Authorized Representative
THE HARYANA AGRO-INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION LIMITED
By /s/ L. K. JHA
ÅAuthorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1. Technical Feasibility of Minor Irrigation Investments
(a) Loans for minor irrigation investments (tubewells
and sprinkler irrigation) would include not more
than Rs 500 for electricity connections for each tube-
well and each sprinkler set.
(b) Minor irrigation loans would be individually ap-
praised and would require the technical approval of
the Haryana Department of Agriculture.
2. Financial Feasibility of Farm Investments
(a) All investments shall be evaluated in terms of incre-
mental returns from the additional investment, in accord-
ance with the evaluation method prescribed by ARC.
(b) Loans for tractor purchases shall be granted only to
Beneficiaries who shall (i) offer assurances that they have
or will have at the time they receive the tractor, at least
three implements, which may include a trailer, for use with
the tractor; and (ii) demonstrate that the tractor will be
used for cultivating not less than 40 ha of cropped area
per year or for 1,000 hours of productive work in agricul-
ture per year.
(c) Loans for self-propelled combine purchases shall be
granted only to Beneficiaries who shall demonstrate that
the combine will be used for a workload of at least 200 ha
per unit per annum.
(d) Loans for tractor drawn harvesters shall be granted
only to Beneficiaries who shall demonstrate that the har-
vester will be used for a workload of at least 100 ha per
unit per annum.
(e) Not more than 10 combines and 50 harvesters shall
be provided for HAIC.


﻿15
(f) Tractor borrowers shall be required to buy post-
warranty service on their tractors for the life of the tractor
loan.
3. Financial Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Loans
(a) Contributions by Beneficiaries: Beneficiaries would
be required to contribute 25%   of total costs for
tractors, implements, combines, and harvesters and,
except as provided in sub-paragraph (d) below with
respect to small farmer Beneficiaries, 20% of other
investments.
(b) Interest rate: 9% per annum of outstanding balance.
(c) Loan maturity: shall be based on the Beneficiary's
capacity to repay but shall not exceed, in the case
of (i) minor irrigation investments, 7 years, includ-
ing one year of grace (except as provided in sub-
paragraph (d) below with respect to tubewell invest-
ments by small farmer Beneficiaries); (ii) self-
propelled combine investments, 5 years.; and (iii)
tractors and tractor-drawn harvesters, 7 years.
(d) Small farmer Beneficiaries (as designated in the
agreements referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement) will be required to contribute 10% of
total costs for minor irrigation (tubewells) costing
less than Rs 10,009.each; and for such investments
the loan maturity shall not exceed nine years.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and condi-
tions under which part of the proceeds of the Credit or the
equivalent thereof shall be relent to LMB, Participating
Banks and the Primary Banks:
1. Lending Terms to LMB and Participating Banks from
ARC:
(a) Amount: ARC shall refinance no more than 90% of
Agricultural Loans for minor irrigation investments
and 75% of Agricultural Loans for mechanization.
(b) Repayment Terms: set to coincide, more or less, with
expected collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c) Interest Rate: 6:12% per annum on outstanding bal-
ance.
2. Lending Terms to Primary Banks from LMB:
(a) Amount: LMB shall refinance 100% of Agricultural
Loans made by Primary Banks.
(b) Repayment Terms: set to coincide, more or less, with
expected collections of Agricultural Loans refinanced.
(c) Interest Rate: 71/2%  per annum on outstanding bal-
ance.
3. Re-use of Funds under the Credit:
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, repay-
ments to ARC from LMB and the Participating Banks
shall be deposited in a special account to be used only
for refinancing ARC-approved agricultural development
schemes, such schemes to be carried out in conformity with
sound administrative, agricultural and financial practices.


