CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 249-IN
Haryana Agreement
(Haryana Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF HARYANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 249-IN
Haryana Agreement
(Haryana Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF HARYANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 11, 1971


﻿Hiaryanau A~gemernt
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1971, between Tm STATE
oF HARYANA (hereinafter called Haryana) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith between India, acting by its President, (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Association (herein-
after referred to as the Development Credit Agreement),
the Association has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition inter alia that Haryana agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth; and
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association, of the one part, and Agricultural Refinance
Corporation, The Haryana State Co-operative Land Mort-
gage Bank Limited and The Haryana Agro-Industries Cor-
poration Limited, of the other part, Agricultural Refinance
Corporation, The Haryana Co-operative Land Mortgage
Bank Limited and The Haryana Agro-Industries Corpora-
tion Limited, respectively, have agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
and
WHEREAs Haryana, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. Haryana shall ensure that, at all times
until the Closing Date, the Haryana Department of Agricul-
ture has sufficient qualified technical staff available to pro-
vide the LMB, Primary Banks and Participating Banks
with necessary advice and assistance in connection with
technical appraisal of wells to be sunk under the Project.
SECTION 2.02. Haryana shall cause the Haryana Depart-
ment of Agriculture to (a) establish three observation wells
for each 100 shallow tubewells sunk under the Project and
to monitor such observation wells once a month during the
first year after sinking and quarterly thereafter, and (b)
specially train two officers in sprinkler irrigation tech-
niques.
SECTION 2.03. Haryana shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project and any relevant
records and documents; and shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, such services, and the operations and financial condi-
tion with respect to the Project of the agency or agencies
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof.
SECTION 2.04. Haryana and the Association shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will


﻿5
be accomplished. To that end, Haryana and the Association
shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives wtih regard
to the performance of their respective obligations under
this Agreement, the Project, and other matters relating to
the purpose of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. Haryana shall take all action which shall
be necessary on its part to enable ARC, LMB and HAIC
to perform their obligations under (i) the Project Agree-
ment and (ii) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the case
of ARC, and shall not take or permit any of its agencies
to take any action which would prevent or interfere with
the performance of any such obligations of ARC, LMB or
HAIC, or of Participating Banks associated therewith.
SECTION 2.06. Haryana and the Association shall
promptly inform each other of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
either of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective. If the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of
the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly
notify Haryana of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all
obligations of Haryana and the Association hereunder shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Project
Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.


﻿6
SECTION 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any par-
tial cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it -shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radio-
gram to the Party to which it is required or permitted to
be given or made at such party's address hereinafter speci-
fied or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Haryana:
Secretary to Government
Haryana Agriculture Department
Chandigarh
India
Cable address:
Agrisec
Chandigarh
India
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿7
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement on behalf of Haryana may
be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government
of Haryana (Agricultural Production) or such other person
or persons as Haryana shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. Haryana shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on
behalf of Haryana, take any action or execute any docu-
ments required or permitted to be taken or executed by
Haryana pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agree-
ment.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE STATE OF HARYANA
By /s/ L. K. JHA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


