                     Document of
                   The World Bank




                                                  Report No: 29152

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (SCL-41600)

                        ON A

                        LOAN

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$143.4 MILLION

                          TO

                      THAILAND

                        FOR A

UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE & ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT




                      June 8, 2004

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective May 26, 2004)

                   Currency Unit = Thai Baht
                    Baht 40.738 = US$ 1.0
                         US$ 1.0 = Baht 40.738

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   October 1     September 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AusAID       -      Australian Agency for International Development
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
MOE          -      Ministry of Education
MUA          -      Ministry of University Affairs
NBF          -      Non-Bank Financed
NCB          -      National Competitive Bidding
NEC          -      National Education Commission
O&M          -      Operations and Maintenance
PCC          -      Project Coordinating Committee
S&E          -      Science and Engineering
SOE          -      Statements of Expenditure
S&T          -      Science and Technology
TASEAP       -      Thailand - Australia Science & Engineering Assistance Project
USEEP        -      Universities Science & Enginneering Education Project



                  Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
               Country Director      Ian C. Porter
                Sector Manager       Christopher J. Thomas
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Omporn Regel

                                          THAILAND
               UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE & ENGINEERING EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P004805                                                  Project Name: TH-UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE & ENG.
                                                                     EDUC
Team Leader: Omporn Regel                                            TL Unit: HDNED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: TH-UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE & ENG. EDUC                      L/C/TF Number: SCL-41600
   Country/Department: THAILAND                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (100%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/27/1993                                     Effective: 10/27/1997                10/27/1997
     Appraisal: 04/25/1995                                         MTR: 06/01/2000                  03/21/2001
      Approval: 05/13/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF THAILAND/MIN. OF UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS
                      Other Partners:      Co-financing provided for TA by Government of Australia

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Manager:                 Christopher J. Thomas                          Sven Burmester
Team Leader at ICR:             Omporn Regel                                   William Rees
ICR Primary Author:             Robert L. Mcgough


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project fully met and, in some cases, exceeded its stated development objectives. The overall
objective was to improve the quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs. Specifically, the
project sought to: (a) strengthen the teaching capabilities of the faculty; (b) upgrade the content of existing
programs in science and engineering and broaden the range of programs relevant to Thailand's
technological advancement; (c) modernize laboratories and strengthen their management; and (d) improve
the utilization of resources in faculties of engineering and science and establish a system in the large-scale
procurement of equipment. The Bank's project objectives were based on a detailed assessment of needs,
and the project design was well conceived. The project was prepared with a view toward the reduction of
its complexity and risk.

A unique aspect of the project was its close articulation with a technical assistance/staff training project
that was parallel co-financed by the Government of Australia. This project was financed through the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) and was called the Thailand-Australia
Science and Engineering Assistance project (TASEAP). TASEAP's objectives complemented those of
Universities Science and Engineering Education Project (USEEP) and it effectively supported the
agreed upon technical assistance and fellowship/ training programs that supported the objectives of the
USEEP. These complementary relationships were originally planned and presented in the USEEP's Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR). TASEAP's final expenditures were about US$14.0 million. Additional
information regarding TASEAP is provided in later sections as required to clarify the overall impact of the
investments made in the USEEP. The final Project Completion Report for TASEAP is listed in Annex 7.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objectives were not revised. This was significant considering the unforeseen
Asian Financial Crisis (1997-1998) which resulted in the restructuring of many projects in Thailand.

3.3 Original Components:
The project supported quality improvements in 20 public universities through the financing and
implementation of the following components. All components were judged to: (a) have strong relevance to
the project's objectives; (b) be well within the capacity of the implementing agency; and (c) have been
designed to reflect 'lessons learned' from previous Bank projects in Thailand and the Higher Education
Sector in general.

Component 1. Strengthen the teaching capabilities of faculty - This component was designed to improve
the teaching skills and technical knowledge of staff from participating faculties of science and engineering.
The project provided international fellowships, in-country training programs and technical assistance by
foreign specialists. Small-scale research projects were also financed to extend the knowledge of academic
staff relevant to improved teaching. The component also provided English language training for academic
and technical staff selected for overseas training and to enable a broadening of their access to academic
resources.




                                                       - 2 -

Component 2. Upgrade the content of existing programs in science and engineering and broaden the
range of programs relevant to Thailand's technological advancement - This component supported
faculties to evaluate existing programs and identify new ones that support the national development
priorities. It also supported the improvement of program resource management in the participating
institutions. The component provided technical assistance and overseas fellowships and coordinated the
development of linkages with international universities and with industry.

Component 3. Modernize laboratories and strengthen their management - The project financed
equipment procurement to improve the quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs. The
component also sought to enhance the capacity of existing institutional staff responsible for management,
operations and maintenance. To support this second component initiative, overseas fellowships, training
and technical assistance were provided. Included in this component were investments to support the
development of the Global Development Learning Network Center at Chulalongkorn University.

Component 4. Improve the utilization of resources in the faculties of Engineering & Science and
establish a system for the large scale procurement of equipment. In Component 4, there were two
elements. The first element provided training and technical assistance to ensure that adequate provision of
consumable materials, spare parts, supplies, maintenance, support services and systems for monitoring and
analyzing the utilization, operation and maintenance of equipment. The second element provided technical
assistance and training to enhance the capacity of the Ministry of University Affairs (MUA) to manage all
aspects of large scale procurement under World Bank ICB guidelines.

3.4 Revised Components:
The USEEP components were not formally revised although there were some modifications made to their
associated Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). The KPIs were revised through a series of meetings
between MUA, World Bank and the participating institutions with the intent to more clearly define the
deliverables to be achieved under the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

This project was not subjected to a QAG review and rating at entry.

The ICR rating for quality of entry is as satisfactory. This rating is based on a number of findings: (a)
from the beginning, the project was strongly focused on its agreed upon developmental objectives. This
focus did not waiver or change through the duration of the project; (b) the focus of the project was closely
aligned with Royal Thai Government (RTG) higher education development priorities as defined in the 7th
and 8th five-year plans. These attuned relationships remained consistent throughout the project's
implementation period; (c) the project design was clearly consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS); (d) the RTG considers the project to have been timely, in that it occurred in accord with
RTG higher education development initiatives and was in place to support the higher education sector
during the time of economic crisis in Thailand. As a result the project made a more significant contribution
than originally envisaged; (e) the project was clearly designed to leverage the potential of the Bank's
investments by closing linking with the technical assistance project funded by AusAid, and (f) the project
design was formulated to respond to the a well researched and documented set of "lessons learned" from
previous projects in the sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:




                                                     - 3 -

The project has met its overall development objectives and its outcomes are seen as substantial. The
project supported the Government's efforts to build a comprehensive science and engineering model for
achieving better learning at the higher education level. These outcomes were produced by a well-conceived
and strongly integrated approach that featured: (a) the training and upgrading of teaching and
administrative staff; (b) the upgrading of existing, and the development of new curricula; (c) the
establishment of long lasting links with foreign universities, to strengthen research and to facilitate staff
exchanges; (d) the development and implementation of a system-wide quality assurance system; and (e) the
development and institutionalization of a comprehensive asset management system.

The project also demonstrated that a large university system can be changed by targeted investments and
well-conceived interventions. The participating institutions are better able to meet the changing demands of
the scientific and engineering labor market. All of the participating institutions now report that they have
substantially enhanced capacity to produce more science and engineering graduates. Studies have also
shown that graduates are now better trained to handle the rapidly changing technologies in the productive
sectors. Furthermore, the job placement rates from these institutions continue to be satisfactory. These
graduates are recognized as an important contribution to the strengthening of the science and technology
infrastructure which is vital to sustaining Thailand's position in technology advancement and global
competitiveness.

In addition to the above, it should be noted that the each of the project's development objectives was
reached within the budget allocated, and within the time periods agreed upon between the Bank and the
Government. There was also a sustained Government commitment throughout the project implementation
period. Furthermore, the project received strong and committed institutional participation. There was also
strong indications of client satisfaction with the implementation and outcomes of the project. Based on
these outcomes, the overall outcome of the project is judged to be satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Strengthen the teaching capabilities of faculty - The implementation of Component 1 was
satisfactory. Selected teaching staff were provided with short term specialized training to upgrade their
teaching skills and technical knowledge - To improve the skills of the teachers in all 36 recipient faculties,
the project implemented 139 staff development programs (47 in Engineering and 92 in Science). In each
program, technical training, fellowships, research and in some cases the establishment of institutional
linkages between Thai and Australian Universities were provided. The project also initiated generic staff
development activities in areas that were common within science and engineering. These included: (a)
curriculum development; (b) teaching methodologies; (c) research methodologies; (d) library science; and
(e) technical support.

With the associated support of TASEAP, 2,836 teaching staff of the science faculty, and 805 staff of the
engineering faculty were trained in-country. 96 teaching staff of the science faculty and 84 staff of the
engineering faculty were trained in Australia. 2,295 participants received training in pedagogy and
curriculum development in-country, and an additional 11 persons received such training in Australia.
9,268 participants were also provided with English Language Training (ELT) to enhance the overall ELT
capacity within each participating institution. The RTG also provided training for 798 participants to
strengthen their capacity to operate and maintain specific items of equipment purchased through the
project. Through both TASEAP and the RTG, 368 short-term, specialized overseas fellowships (250 and
118 respectively) were also awarded.

Ongoing monitoring and evaluation within the institutions found that the above staff interventions resulted
in: (a) improved teaching methodologies such as a reorientation to student-based learning models and a



                                                      - 4 -

greater use of computer-aided instruction including web-based learning; (b) improved capacity to
formulate and develop curriculum; (c) greater knowledge of the use and maintenance of equipment; (d)
increased research and improved research methodologies; (e) improved access to English language
resources; and, (f) improved capacity to develop appropriate resources.

One of the most significant indirect benefits of the project was its influence on bringing academics, with
like interests, together to share their experiences, knowledge and, in some cases, resources. This interaction
also facilitated the development of academic networks in the areas of (a) computing, (b) analytical
chemistry, and (c) English Language Training.

Component 2: Upgrade the content of existing programs in science and engineering and broaden the
range of programs relevant to Thailand's technological advancement - The implementation of
Component 2 was satisfactory (for additional data regarding program enhancement/development, see
Appendix 1). It is estimated that more than 3,000 engineering and science courses/modules were enhanced
or developed. This represents an average increase from base year (1997) of 13.3% in undergraduate and
82.7% in graduate engineering programs, and 24.6% in undergraduate and 49.07% in graduate science
programs. TASEAP also provided about 900 person months (or 75 person years) of technical assistance
across a range of subjects. This included both long-term (665 person months) and short-term (235 person
months) advisors.

Component 3: Modernize laboratories and strengthen their management - The implementation of
Component 3 was satisfactory. The enormity and complexity of the task is demonstrated by the following
statistics: (a) number of equipment specifications written was about 12,217; (b) number of sites to which
equipment was delivered was about 295; (c) number of items ordered was about 38,671; and (d) number of
tenders was 14.

Initially, participating institutions had some concern about the procurement process. Although the
procured equipment generally met functional specifications, many universities were not satisfied with the
overall quality of the received items. In response to this concern, the Loan Project Office (LPO)
established a specifications review committee with representative membership from participating
universities. As a result, there was a minimum of further discontent regarding the procurement process.
The LPO managed the procurement process effectively and generally, through the duration of the project,
employed sufficient dedicated staff to ensure quality operations.

There was some new construction and facilities modification as required to house the equipment provided
under USEEP. This construction was funded outside of the project by RTG. In particular, newly
established universities were allocated RTG budgets to support the construction of new buildings for the
faculties of science and engineering.

Both the RTG and TASEAP provided substantial training support as mentioned above. TASEAP also
provided significant support in the area of laboratory management. A team of TASEAP short-term
advisors (STAs) delivered in-country workshops to about 328 academic and laboratory staff in the areas of
planning, staffing and operational aspects of laboratory management. The team also provided targeted
fellowships for technical support staff to visit Australia and observe laboratory management techniques
used in Australian universities. The STAs further assisted in the production of a PC based
asset-management system and a multimedia package containing information on relevant standards,
calibrations and references. All of these materials were made available to each participant, with a copy sent
to the appropriate Dean of Faculty. All of the participating universities now have an asset management
program in place. This program is functioning well and it is expected that these universities will fully



                                                       - 5 -

institutionalize the use of the asset management program over the next few years.

The RTG sponsored a total of 584 personnel from science and engineering to participate in in-country
training courses on operation and maintenance of advanced equipment, while 70 individuals were sponsored
for advance training on equipment utilization aboard. Those trainees from both in country and abroad
came back and organized training within their faculties. The LPO also confirmed that about 493 additional
staff from science and engineering were trained, during the project period, within their own faculties.

Component 4: Improve the utilization of resources in the faculties of Engineering & Science and
establish a system for the large scale procurement of equipment. The implementation of Component 4
was satisfactory.

As mentioned above all procurement has been completed in a satisfactory manner. Furthermore, all of the
public universities are now undergoing a new system of budgeting which will incorporate depreciated costs
as part of their budgets. This will help each faculty to identify and plan for equipment replacement and
future need for both teaching and research functions.

An independent review of universities commissioned by the LPO and, undertaken by Kasetsart University
confirmed that all of the participating universities now have an established quality assurance system. This
system includes the monitoring and evaluation of procedures, equipment usage, and the appropriate use of
supplies and instructional materials. The Kasetsart University team also confirmed that each faculty has
appointed one or more coordinators for asset management. This indicates that a commitment has been
made to ensure that there are no shortages in supplies and instructional materials required for the teaching
of science and engineering. Additional information in this regard will soon be available from the ongoing
Impact Evaluation Study (funded outside of the project by the RTG). Preliminary findings are expected to
be available in September 2004.

The project has also initiated a considerable amount of activities to support facility management, and has
introduced asset management and maintenance systems. Faculties are continuing the process of developing
systems to inventory equipment, supplies and materials. All participating institutions have implemented
asset management systems.

Faculties have also demonstrated a commitment to budget for necessary instructional supplies and
materials to support the undergraduate teaching of science and engineering. Over the last three years (2001
to 2003) science faculties committed a total of Baht 91.427 million to this effort, while engineering
faculties have committed a total of Baht 80.504 million. Furthermore, in all cases, the budget significantly
increased from 2002 to 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
A review of the KPI reveals that significant institutional development impact has already taken
place. Within the 20 participating institutions, there has been a substantial increase in the capacity
(in most cases exceeding initial project estimates) to: (a) design, plan and implement new courses in
science and engineering; (b) upgrade existing courses; (c) plan and implement large scale scientific



                                                      - 6 -

and technical procurement; (d) manage large scale development projects in higher education; (e)
operate and maintain sophisticated, technical teaching equipment; (f) establish and maintain
institutional linkages (both national and international) to support intellectual exchanges and
collaborative research. Additional data and analysis is expected from the RTG's ongoing Impact
Evaluation Study (completion is expected in September 2004).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Asian Financial Crisis was a significant event during the implementation of the project. It is interesting
to note that the Crisis was judged to have had mostly positive effects on the outcomes of the project. The
onset of the Crisis pushed the project to higher levels of visibility and importance within the Government.
It became evident that the RTG could not support the continued development of the universities at this scale
without USEEP. As a result, the project had significantly more impact on higher education policy reform
than originally envisioned.

In the initial stages there was some delay in the implementation of the procurement activities. The
Government proposed to use an electronic bidding approach to support its procurement requirements. At
that time, the Bank had no policy on electronic bidding, so it initially refused to support the proposal. This
resulted in some confusion and borrower discontent. Later this decision was reversed. The use of the
electronic bidding procedure has proven to have a number of advantages to the borrower, among which the
primary advantage was cost effectiveness, thus, it should be considered a 'lesson learned'.

In a small number of instances, suppliers did not maintained their contractual commitments relating to
ongoing service and the availability of spare parts. Because of this situation, in a few instances, some
universities have a few pieces of equipment that are less than fully functional. To address these issues, the
LPO initiated meetings between suppliers and the participating universities to discuss their mutual
concerns. It was found that there were specific concerns that were common to more than one institution.
This recognition and a subsequent dialogue with the vendors led to a better understanding of needs and a
stronger adherence to agreements regarding service and spare parts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were some government delays in the approval of procurement recommendations. This was partially
due to the fact that the project was sizable with a complex procurement plan. There was also an
understandable lack of experience with many Bank procurement procedures.

Despite the project being one of the first implemented after Thailand's long absence from Bank lending, the
counterpart contribution has been satisfactory, and the RTG has demonstrated a strong commitment to the
full implementation of a quality project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were some procurement processing delays at the implementation agency level. The following are
considered the primary factors that contributed to these delays: (a) there were some delays in the
acceptance of goods by respective university appointed acceptance committees; (b) a significant number of
LPO staff were under project duration contracts, so as they found more permanent work many resigned
leaving a void which took time to fill; and, (c) MUA staff were assigned to the project but often felt that as
a result, they lost their opportunity for advancement within the MUA. The MUA became conscious of this
issue towards the latter stages of implementation, and moved to establish promotion procedures that
effectively addressed this issue.




                                                     - 7 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Although the project substantially met all its objectives and in some areas exceeded initial expectations,
there were significant cost savings. The Government canceled US$11.0 million from the loan on December
6, 2001 and US$3.0 million on October 31, 2001, for a total of US$14.0 million. The project has
disbursed about US$127.4 million (about 98% when the loan amount is adjusted to reflect loan
cancellations). The cost savings were generally due to a combination of the following factors: (a) lower
than expected costs for purchased equipment; (b) the state of the economy during the Asian Financial
Crisis; (c) rigorous, centralized specification procedures and associated training that were initially used by
the project team; and (d) higher than necessary estimates of equipment costs made during project
preparation.

Significant variances were found between the estimates at appraisal and actual costs for several
categories of N.B.F expenditure. The following briefly describes the variances, and the determined reasons
for each:

l In the SAR, it was estimated that the RTG would spend about US$24.2 million for equipment
    procured through NCB and NBF. The data indicates that about US$1.7 million (NBF) was actually
    spent. This amounts to about 7% of the original estimate for the two categories combined. It was
    determined that: (a) NCB and NBF procurement estimates at appraisal were too high. Most of the
    project's equipment requirements consisted of technical equipment that required procurement through
    ICB, thus, under Bank/RTG agreement, counterpart funding was not required; and (b) the national
    financial crisis provided for substantial cost savings for NCB and NBF purchased equipment. It
    should be noted that all planned equipment was satisfactorily procured during the project.

l In the SAR, it was estimated that the RTG would spend about US$17.0 million for equipment
    installation and procurement support costs. The data indicates that about US$1.2 million was
    actually spent. This amounts to about 7% of the original estimate. It was determined that: (a) due, in
    part, to the country's financial crisis, the project was able to contract for equipment installation,
    calibration and even training on equipment usage as a part of the purchase price, thus eliminating the
    need for additional expenditure in this category. It should be noted that all planned equipment
    installation was satisfactorily completed during the project.

l In the SAR, it was estimated that the RTG would spend about US$57.3 million for equipment O&M
    costs. The data indicates that about US$5.4 million was actually spent. This amounts to about 9% of
    the original estimate. It was found that significant efficiencies were gained during the project which
    reduced the funding requirement for this category of expenditure. Some of the efficiencies were gained
    from the procurement and implementation of ICT technology and the introduction of strong linkages
    between the 20 participating institutions. Instead of individual development of O&M programs as
    planned, the early implementation of ICT made it possible to develop O&M models that could be
    standardized and replicated in all of the participating institutions, thus providing for significant cost
    savings. Furthermore, the introduction of extensive technical assistance in the area of management and
    O&M (provided by the co-financier), provided for efficiency improvements that were translated into
    further cost savings. It should be noted that all of the planned O&M activities were satisfactorily
    completed during the project. These activities included: (a) computerized data collection and inventory
    systems; (b) establishment of institutional O&M committees; (c) establishment of depreciation and
    replacement standards and procedures; (d) establishment of equipment usage and maintenance
    recording systems; and (e) establishment of training programs to improve usage, maintenance and
    collaborative use.




                                                       - 8 -

l In the SAR, in the institutional development category, it was estimated that the RTG would spend
    about US$0.5 million for consultants, and US$0.1 million for training. It was found that the data
    indicates that about US$0.1 million and US$0.1 million was spent, respectively. It was found that: (a)
    the co-financed TA component was more robust than originally planned and, for this reason, there was
    less need for RTG financed consultants and training; (b) the financial crisis provided for significant
    cost savings in the costs for both consultants and in-country training; and (c) some of the planned
    consultant services and training were provided by the vendors as a part of their contractual agreements
    for equipment purchase and installation. It should be noted that all planned consulting and technical
    assistance was satisfactorily completed during the implementation of the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Staff Development - Quality staff are the primary resource of the participating universities as they move
toward institutional autonomy. The participating institutions have worked with USEEP and TASEAP in
developing human resources development plans and assessment strategies for their academic and support
staff. Each has recognized that there must be continued planning and staff development to ensure that
university resources are used efficiently and effectively. This recognition has resulted in significant policy
reforms in human resources development at the institutional level.

Curriculum Development - As mentioned earlier, significant curriculum development has taken place
during the project. The objectives and initiatives for this activity were developed by institutional
management and staff with some support from MUA. Every effort was made to closely link the objectives
to student/employer needs and national development goals. USEEP/TASEAP assisted in facilitating these
developments through technical assistance and some training. As a result, the project has witnessed a
strong growth in each institution's capacity to implement curriculum development. With its strong
philosophical and technical foundation and the current government policy to place a priority on university
curriculum development, there is every expectation that this capacity will continue to develop in the future.

Research - USEEP/TASEAP has been successful in raising the awareness of the complementary nature of
research and academic development. It is now recognized at both the institutional and MUA levels that
quality research is an essential element in all comprehensive university education schemes. Associated with
this understanding, MUA has initiated a number of programs to support the development of both
undergraduate and postgraduate research at universities with a view toward enhancing the quality of
academic programs. Cooperative research programs with international universities have been established.
This effort was strengthened directly through the project's and MUA's linkage programs, and many of these
have been sustainable to this point. The government's strong commitment to research will likely grow and
will almost certainly be sustained for the foreseeable future.

Facilities - Financial support for facility management and operation has been flowing as part of the RTG's
recurrent funding to universities. It is expected this level of funding will be sustained in the future. In
addition to these levels of funding, some faculties are also seeking alternative sources of funding through
the provision of services to industry and through short-term commercial training. It should also be noted
that through joint research activities developed under the linkages program of TASEAP, Thai universities
are now able to access Australian support for operational and maintenance challenges in their laboratories.
Australian academics also benefitted from the substantial resources now available at Thai universities.




                                                       - 9 -

University Linkages - It has been the experience of the project that sustainable and effective linkages rely
on close relationships between individual academics at each linking university. USEEP and TASEAP have
been very successful in supporting such linkages both formally and informally. Although Thai institutions
and their international partner institutions have to contend with increasing financial pressures that
challenge their efforts to maintain such linkages, this will be countered by both Thai and partner university
management's recognition of the need to promote international activities and collaborative arrangements.

Procurement Capability - In the initial stages of USEEP, it was expected that the role of the Loan Project
Office (LPO) would continue for many years as the Ministry sought additional loan funds for planned
sector developments. The RTG has since decided to reduce or eliminate all external borrowing. Therefore,
it is expected that the LPO will gradually reduce its capacity following the completion of the USEEP. The
LPO will, initially, continue to function as it provides ongoing support to other ongoing Bank project(s).
Currently, the LPO staff is providing implementation assistance to the ongoing Secondary Education
Quality Improvement Project. Over the long term, it seems reasonable to assume that the LPO's extensive
procurement capacity may not be required and that its staff will be eventually returned to their pre-project
assignments/positions, most of which are not involved in procurement of goods or services.

The project has also provided considerable skills to many young Thai professionals that will enhance their
careers in future years. This has already been evidenced by the rate of movement by LPO contract staff
into attractive and secure positions outside the MUA. The individual institutions have also enhanced their
procurement capacity significantly. Most indicate that they should be able to maintain their current
capacity level.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Virtually all of the transitions to regular operations have already taken place.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Although the project's task team initial missions were the first to engage in an education lending activity, in
Thailand, in over a decade, it was able to produce a thorough and comprehensive proposal that did not
change much during the implementation of the project. A number of working papers were produced that
provided significant input to the preparation of the project. The preparation mission paid special attention
to the holistic integration of equipment, facilities, pedagogy, curricula and staff development in the project
design. Project development was consistent with the Government's long-term plan for university
development as well as the Bank's view in this regard. Preparation and appraisal teams were well staffed
and managed. Extensive data collection took place and the results were well organized and documented.
Lessons learned from other projects were discussed and agreed upon. The appraisal of the project was
comprehensive. The performance indicators were well prepared and continuously updated, making the
tracking of the project activities straight forward. Delays in project negotiation and effectiveness were due
to the Government's decision to slow down the process for internal reasons. The task team's initial project
estimates for equipment costs may have been somewhat excessive, however, this is difficult to confirm
because the project was implemented during a financial crisis in Thailand and there were other contributing
factors as well. Overall, the Bank's performance in this section was satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The Banks files contain full documentation of all PSRs and there is evidence of extensive Bank involvement
as issues were identified during the project's implementation. Initially, similar to many other projects, the
progress of the project was sluggish. Throughout this initial period there was close monitoring and



                                                       - 10 -

supervision by the Bank. As a result, the early issues (primarily associated with procurement management)
were quickly identified and addressed. Through the Bank's intensive and pro-active supervision,
implementation progress was adequate reported and project performance was realistically rated. All
covenants were reviewed during each mission and strictly enforced. Staff gave significant advice and
showed considerable flexibility in solving implementation issues. Supervision missions at six month
intervals were adequately staffed. Relations with the Borrower were excellent throughout the project period.


It is noteworthy to mention that most of the supervision was conducted by senior staff from the Bank's
Bangkok Field Office. This arrangement seems to have resulted in a closer communication and oversight
than would have been typically found if the project was supervised from headquarters. Overall, the Bank's
performance in this section was satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower assigned a counterpart team to actively participate in the identification and preparation of
the project. Senior government officials made themselves available for discussion and policy dialogue
during all phases of the project. They made many significant contributions to the soundness of the concept
and scope of the project. Likewise, the participating institutions showed a strong commitment to
excellence, and a full implementation of project. The overall performance of the Borrower during project
preparation was highly satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was, and remains, strongly committed to the higher education sector. Over the past
decade the participating universities have gained increasing prominence and capacity to contribute to the
national development agenda. For these reasons, it is expected that the Government will continue to
support the funding required for the operations and development of higher education. Throughout the
duration of the project counterpart funds were available and adequate. Covenants were in full compliance
and there were no overdue audit reports through the project years. The overall performance of the
Borrower during implementation was satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency was strongly committed and involved with all aspects of the project throughout
the duration of the project. Initially, the implementing agency attempted to implement the project using a
strong central control concept. There was some concern within the participating institutions that this
approach was less than satisfactory because, in their opinion, the implementing agency could not provide
adequate oversight to the widely disbursed activities of the project. As these issues were brought up, the
implementing agency responded well with demonstrated flexibility. Changes were made in the
implementation plan to allow for a more decentralized approach wherein, the various institutions became
responsible for many aspects of the project's implementation. This approach proved to be highly
satisfactory to all parties. The Bank's supervision team was included in the related discussions and were
fully consulted as the changes were planned and made. The overall performance of the implementing
agency was satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.




                                                     - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned

The use of local processing staff based in the Bank's field office is an advantage for projects which require
frequent monitoring and evaluation. In the case of this project, the LPO made frequent use of Bank advice
that was locally available on procurement, governance issues, project financing and development strategies.

A clear orientation to the project objectives and a statement of project responsibilities should be provided
to all participants in a project. Initially the project team did not fully orient institutional staff to the
project's objectives and their respective roles in implementation of the project. Subsequently, there was
some confusion and misdirection in the early days of the project. Upon realizing the problem, the project
implementation unit moved quickly to address the problem.

Project designs should include planned activities to quickly collect and organize good baseline data. Some
baseline data was initially available for enrollments, academic qualifications and courses, however, other
qualitative data on student development was not collected until much later. Furthermore, the important
monitoring and evaluation plan for USEEP was not completed until midway through the project. It should
be noted that its completion met the conditions of the project, however, in retrospect, it would have more
useful if completed earlier.

When co-financed projects are associated with a Bank project, it is important to have clear understandings
and linkages/relationships well documented for both projects. TASEAP was a linked-project with USEEP.
It focused on the first two components of staff and academic program development, and part of component
3, in that it supported the establishment and ongoing operation of a procurement capacity within the
implementing agency. Yet, because TASEAP was funded by a partner government (Australia), it was
treated as a separate project which was complementary to USEEP, but not included as part of the overall
USEEP project implementation plan.

Where faculties have similar or related academic interests, careful attention should be given to options for
integration and sharing of equipment and other resources. Initially, the project found it difficult to gain
faculty recognition of this need. Each faculty had a natural inclination to seek resources to fund their
independent teaching and research capacity. Later, a MUA review of this issue revealed that there were a
number of overlaps and inconsistencies in processes, documentation and required resources for similar
programs in both the Science faculty and the Engineering faculty. From then on, there was an effort to seek
significant integration of both Engineering and Science streams, for example in areas such as generic
teaching and research, (i.e. common to both streams). This integration resulted in a more efficient use of
resources.

Future projects should not assume that there is good communication within its stakeholder organizations
and should evaluate and work with these organizations to ensure all interested parties can participate in
information flows. The project did have a comprehensive communication strategy that was approved and
disseminated to all stakeholders. However, the project overestimated the effectiveness of communication
within the universities and faculties. Some problems occurred when communication broke down between
participating institutions and/or the LPO.

Where only one language is predominantly spoken in a project area, that language should be the primary
language used in the project.      There was an assumption that many, if not most, of the academics
participating in the project would have a good understanding of English, a second language. In many
instances this was not the case, and there was some miscommunication as a result. The strong management
within the respective institutions usually rectified these misunderstandings, but this situation did cause



                                                    - 12 -

some delays and staff confusion.

Electronic bidding procedures have been proven in this project to have distinct advantages over traditional
procurement/bidding procedures.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

   Background and Rationale

         In late 1993, the Royal Thai Government requested The World Bank to examine the possibility of
   project assistance to education. In conjunction with the Government, the Bank identified a project which
   would assist in strengthening the quality of science and engineering education in public universities.
   Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government according to guidelines formulated by
   the Bank. Project preparation was completed in November 1994 and the project was appraised in May
   1995. Project processing was delayed following elections in July 1995 and installation of a new
   Government. Further delay was caused by uncertainties and could be resolved, regarding the provision
   of technical assistance. Finally, the project was signed on July 29, 1997.

         The project was consistent with the Government's priority for developing technical and scientific
   skills and with its plans for expanding and improving the quality of science and engineering education.
   The project also emphasized on human resource development and the need to develop the capacities of
   the universities to provide quality science and engineering education.       The overall objective of the
   project was to improve the quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs. The specific
   aims were to; strengthen the teaching capacities of faculty, upgrade the content of existing programs in
   science and engineering and broaden the range of programs relevant to Thailand's technological
   advancement, modernize laboratories and strengthen their management, improve the utilization of
   resources in faculties of engineering and science, and establish a system for the large-scale procurement
   of equipment.

         The project supported quality improvement in 20 public universities through financing an
   institutional program including; short-term overseas training for selected academic and technical support
   staff in the education use and maintenance of the project-finance equipment and technical assistance and
   academic support services which was financed by the Australian Agency for International Development
   through Thailand- Australia Science and Engineering Assistance Project (TASEAP). The TASEAP also
   provided consultant services to evaluate existing programs and reconfirmed new ones, improved the
   management of program resources, developed effective procedures for the large-scale procurement of
   equipment and strengthen project management.

         The component included the financing of small-scale research projects which extended the
   knowledge of academic staff relevant to improve teaching and English language training for academic
   and technical staff selected for overseas training.

   Project Implementation

         The Loan Project Office, Ministry of University Affairs was established to be responsible for
   centralized equipment procurement, planning and management of overseas training programs and
   in-country training, coordination of consultant services, monitoring and evaluation, financial
   management and information dissemination. Co-ordination of the project with co-financier was made
   through the Department of Technical assistance Cooperation. Coordination, monitoring and evaluation
   of Australian contribution to the project was undertaken by the Australia for International Development
   through its office in Canberra and Bangkok. The Australian Managing Contractor responsible for



                                                     - 13 -

project implementation was SAGRIC International Pty. Ltd. in association with Monash University, the
University of New South Wales and the University of South Australia.

      The project key performance indicators were developed and modified continuously during the
project implementation period by every part of the project concerned. After the fifth year of project
implementation, the government requested the Bank for a one-year extension since there were many
uncertainties occurred causing the project timely completion as identified in the contract. At the same
time, Kasetsart University research team was contracted by the Loan Project Office to conduct further
monitoring and evaluation of the project.

Evaluation of Performance against Objectives

      Objective 1 Strengthening teaching capability

      Academic development activities in science were targeted at nine undergraduate priority areas.
These included analytical chemistry, biotechnology, computing, ecology/biology, environmental science,
material science, organic chemistry, physics and statistics. There were over 140 in-country training
workshops were carried out in these priority areas. These were attended by over 2400 Thai academics
from across all the participating universities. In addition, the project provided 96 fellowships to
Australia which enabled Thai academics to further study specialist academic and research areas with
their Australian colleagues.

      The RTG had supported specialist in country training for about 543 Thai academics and technical
support personnel, on specific items of science equipment purchased by faculties. It had also sponsored
international training to a further 47 science academics, covering specific operations and maintenance on
some of the more complex equipment purchased.

      As in science, engineering activities were targeted at priority areas for undergraduate academic
development. These consisted of construction engineering, energy engineering, environmental
engineering, machine design, material processing, electronics, telecommunications and transport
engineering. Over 40 in-country workshops were carried out in support of these priority areas, which
were attended by over 800 academic staff. In addition, the project provided 84 fellowships to Australia
for Thai engineering academics.

      The project counterpart fund of RTG also supported 319 participants for in-country training
courses of Thai academic and technical staff on the operation and maintenance of specific items of
engineering equipment. It also sponsored international training to a further 23 engineering academics on
specific interests in operation and maintenance of some of the more complex engineering equipment
purchased.

      Objective 2 Upgrade existing undergraduate programs

      The provision of new equipment through the project enabled faculties to both establish new
courses, in cases where existing facilities were inadequate, and improve existing curriculum, particularly
in terms of associated laboratory work. The universities have identified a total of 2,005 courses in
science and 991 coursess in engineering have been adjusted as a direct impact of the project. There were
1,084 courses in science and 244 courses in engineering developed. Three hundred and five programs in
science and three hundred and sixteen programs in engineering were developed in both undergraduate
and graduate levels.

      The project has provided faculties with a range of new equipment to enhance the way subjects are
taught. The greater use of technology now being applied to the teaching of science and engineering



                                                  - 14 -

programs. The project provided direct technical assistance to faculties in regard to developing improved
teaching methodologies. This was provided broadly through a series of in-country workshops, attended
by a total of 947 academics. The project also provided specific support direct to individual faculties in
the application of newly acquired equipment in their teaching approaches.

     Although the project was targeted at the development of undergraduate programs, a secondary
benefit of the provision of equipment has been to enable the further development of research within
participating faculties. Faculty staff and postgraduate students have now greater access to modern
scientific and engineering equipment which they can apply to their research programs. The participating
universities have identified a total of 1,991 new research projects which have resulted from this new
access.

     In addition, the project initiated a program, which was targeted at raising the awareness of Thai
academics of the complementary nature of research and academic development. In addition to the
provision of technical assistance direct to faculties, the project provided 5 workshops on the improved
research methodologies.

     The report of the contracted team noted that the project also provided opportunity for faculties to
strengthening their relationships with other international universities. It sponsored, both directly and
indirectly, the development of 68 such linkages. These were in the areas of joint Doctoral, Master of
Bachelor programs, research, teaching and student exchange programs.

     Objective 3 Modernize laboratories and strengthen their management

     In addition to the training of academic and technical staff in the specific use and maintenance of
equipment afforded through the project, training was also provided in the area of laboratory
management. The project offered six fellowships for technical support staff to visit Australia and
observe laboratory management techniques used in Australian universities. These staff were then
involved in a series of in-country workshops in which they relayed their findings to the colleagues from
other universities.

     The project promoted and supported the development of asset management and asset utilization
systems within faculties to manage and monitor the existing and new equipment. This included the
provision of asset management software and database. Every faculty has made further advances to the
development of such a system which has enhanced the sustainability of equipment provided through the
project. At the same time, 79 standard laboratories in science and 68 standard laboratories in
engineering were developed for teaching, research and services.

     The English language program was made successfully to enhance existing English language
activities at universities in the areas of science and engineering. The project provided six fellowships in
Australia for English language academics who produced a computer assisted language learning software
package and support materials specifically targeted at science and engineering. These fellows then
returned to Thailand and participated in project sponsored workshops where this new software package
and associated support materials were presented to English language staff from all participating
universities.

     Objective 4 Improve utilization of resources in the faculties of science and engineering

     The procurement of equipment was completed with 38,671 pieces of fourteen tenders as identified


                                                   - 15 -

in the contract and has been accepted and installed to the sites. The study of equipment utilization
conducted by the contracted team revealed that 80.85 percent of science equipment and 70.76 percent of
engineering equipment was used for teaching per week. In addition, 12.89 percent of science equipment
and 15.29 of engineering equipment was used for research and 6.26 and 13.95 percent was used for
services per week. During the implementation period (2001-2004) 253 millions Baht of counterpart
fund was allocated directly to the universities for operation and maintenance cost of the equipment
provided.

      Chulalongkorn University  Global Development Learning Network : CU-GDLN

      As part of the Universities Science and Engineering Education Project : USEEP, CU-GDLN aimed
to promote student and faculty development in higher education institutions throughout Thailand and
serve the government and private sectors by sharing and exchanging knowledge and resources on the
issues related to national interest. CU-GDLN offers different levels of videoconferencing service for
distance education, training, seminar and tele-working to serve both low-end and high-end markets.
Linking to the World Bank's GDLN through the Network Operation Center at the Bank headquarter in
Washington, D.C., the CU-GDLN uses three channels for the linkups; satellites, ISDN telephone line,
and the Internet. The network provides videoconferencing at transmission speeds of 128-384 kilobit per
second (kbps) and network speeds of 256 kbps so conferences can be broadcast to all Distance Learning
Centers live audio-visually worldwide.

      More than six hundred thousand USD has already been disbursed since the year 2000 for the
equipment procured including operation and maintenance costs. The World Bank's representatives and
the Loan Project Office`s staff visited CU-GDLN periodically for monitoring and evaluation of the
USEEP during the project implementation. The results of continuous visits were as follows;

      1.Management

      CU-GDLN has been managed as a part of Chulalongkorn University Center of Academic
Resources : CAR. Seven staff of the CAR were assigned to work on temporary basis on general
administration, training coordination and technical works under the supervision of a senior advisor,
(former director of to Thailand Document Center, Chulalongkorn University). With their expertise on
their own jobs at CAR, all staff are able to work effectively and efficiently.

      2.Performance

      Started in October 2002, CU-GDLN organized 24 events with 82 sessions for 871 participants in
2002 of Thai fiscal year and 26 events with 59 sessions for 839 participants in 2003. The participants
were university students, lecturers, government and non-government officials. The diversity and
applicability of contents offered with powerful technology used for real time training were highly
satisfied by the participants.

      3. Sustainability

      CU-GDLN was developed on academic and technological potential of Chulalongkorn University
with two projects; WB-CU Documentation Center and the WB-CU Digital and Online Information
System. The above mentioned projects are connected to University Networks: UniNet and served as a
super hi-way to higher education institutions throughout Thailand. Knowledge exchanging and sharing
can be done both within country and globally by the network provided.


                                                 - 16 -

      In the near future, CU-GDLN decided to develop courses and contents for worldwide participants
in order to act as an information and knowledge provider in the information-based society.

      4. Strenthening the Sustainability Development

      Although CU-GDLN has been managing smoothly with concrete support from Chulalongkorn
University and the World Bank in term of facilities and expertise, the Center still needs continuous
supports on long-term finance and full time qualified personnel for sustainable development. In addition
the Center itself should strengthen its Strategic plan and Financial plan which has to be incorporated in
the university plan and follow higher education development plan to be fully supported from the Budget
Bureau. Furthermore internal management should be focus more on the following activities

4.1 Course Development and Delivering should be more closely link to global and local needs and has to
be fully supported by the government as an alternative ways of HRD.
4.2 Increase greater public awareness of the role and activities of the Center
4.3 Moving toward the adoption of Business oriented management in order to increase efficiency in
term of financial management.

Major Factors Contributing to the Success of the Project

      The project was one of the key supporting mechanisms that helped sustain the development in
science and engineering education in Thailand and was well accepted by most universities especially
those newly established universities. The project provided faculties of science and engineering a
considerable kick-start with respect to laboratories management. In particular, Asset Management
System initiated by the Project and was established in the faculties of Science and Engineering will be a
stepping stone for the new budgeting system of the university.

      In addition, appropriate training courses, were offered by both TASEAP and USEEP in laboratory
management, maintenance and operation of highly sophisticated equipment. As the courses aimed at
daily operation and maintenance management of the laboratories and equipment usage, the technical
staff brought back their knowledge from the courses provided for the improvement of their own
laboratories at the faculties. The project also supported the successful implementation of Higher
Education Development Plan in various aspects such as strengthening linkages between universities and
industry, cooperated research between public and private sectors, upgraded research capacity of
universities, helped develop postgraduate education and supported quality assurance of higher education.


      It could not be deniable that the success of the project was due to full support from the Government
of Australia through his generosity in providing assistance for the academic development for the
faculties of Science and Engineering and for procurement management. MUA has also recorded the full
support from the World Bank officers, both at Washington D.C. and in Bangkok Office, and recognized
its assistance as a major contribution toward the success of the project. Advises from the World Bank
always came in time and help alleviate many difficulties we encountered. With effective advice the
unused loan was returned immediately instead of delay until the final stage of the contract.

      In addition our sincere appreciation was going to Department of Technical and Economic
Cooperation for her assistance on TASEAP and to the Budget Bureau for a generous allocation of
budget for the management of the project and for training and maintenance of the equipment procured.



                                                  - 17 -

The Public Debt Department and the Comptroller office, Ministry of Finance could not be neglected for
their kind help and support.

Conclusion and Lesson Learned
General Conclusion

      USSEP was the first largest project on development of undergraduate science and engineering
programs in public universities. Although the project faced many challenges due to its scope and
complexity the targeted outcomes were achieved. The project has also impacted on raising the quality of
undergraduate programs in science and engineering and the development of future programs and
internationalization of Thai higher education system as it created and initiative for networking among
Thai public universities and collaboration with Australian universities. Knowledge gained from the
project on procurement system, international bidding, scientific equipment specifications, data based for
procurement management system are valuable knowledge for the future implementation of the similar
project. Best practices in the forms of web-based asset management, electronic logbook, laboratory
maintenance and operation including interactive teaching and learning with problem based learning were
brought to the sustainable development successfully since all of the practices mentioned have been
implementing in every university concerned.

      In achieving such complex and challenging project as already mentioned there are many lessons
learned from the project such as:

Lesson Learned on Management

      There are 2 aspects regarding the lesson learned on management first the Organization Design and
Communication and Involvement

      Organization Design

      Even though the Organization of the Implementing Agency was well designed, with help from
AusAIDS who provided technical assistance in both academic development and the management of the
procurement, it is still found that the full time Thai counterpart with more experience in the area of
scientific equipment and Bank financed Procurement system is still very necessary at the beginning of
the project. Most of junior staff were temporary employed and hence the project faced frequent staff
turnover. In addition the discontinuity of management system at all levels ranging from MUA down to
departmental level at the universities. In particular, the change of top management such as the Minister,
the Permanent Secretary, the University Presidents, the Deans and the Heads of Departments have
effected significantly on the operation of the project.

      Due to the large size and complexity of the project, Project Implementation Sub Unit (Sub-PIU)
should be established at the university level. The Sub-PIU will oversee the project as a whole and will
be the suitable point of contact. The benefit of Sub-PIU is that knowledge and experiences gained at
LPO could be transferred directly to Sub-PIU. In addition , any problems occurred at a particular
university could be solved through the Sub-PIU in connection with LPO which could speed up the whole
process.

      Communication and involvement

      Due to size and complexity of this Project as mentioned earlier, it was difficult enough to make


                                                  - 18 -

universities fully understand the USEEP and TASEAP projects and the connection of the two projects in
early implementation. The difficulty is that the position of the Dean and Department Heads is changed
every four years or less in some universities while the Project is over 5 years. Changing of the executive
teams lead to changing of coordinators and not all the information had been passed through. The
workshop held by LPO each year in order to disseminate information to universities created mutual
understanding of the 2 projects. Furthermore LPO published a newsletter sent out to each department
heads and coordinators to inform about the updated project events. Regardless of all the effort LPO had
done in the communication, the problem was inevitably. There should be a more comprehensive
communication strategy to disseminate to all stakeholders with regarding to different perception and
process of information flows within the university. With better communication, involvement of
stakeholders in all aspects of the procurement cycle should also be taken into consideration.

Lesson Learned on Procurement

      Complexity of the procurement process

      Part of the problems in equipment acceptance is due to the complexity of the procurement process
which was new and take quite a long time. Since the project funding is around US$ 130 million,
procurement has to be done in large packages to reduce handling cost. However, such process in turn
created additional cost and excess paper work for companies bidding for the contract and created delay
in delivery process. Moreover large packages procurement needs to simplify the specification of same
type of equipment into one standard, omitting many detail specification which cater to each user's needs
and sometimes clarification has to be made at acceptance process .

      Large Lot

      At the beginning of the project, large number of equipment to be procured and
a lot of equipment varieties in each tender had caused bidders to submit bid outside their scope of
expertise and hence they do not have enough technical knowledge of all equipment both in installation
and operations. This in turn caused may problems in some of the early tenders such as; delay in
equipment acceptance, incomplete installation, ineffective training. Large size tender also has hidden
cost in equipment delivery, handling and installation.

      Vendors

      Thai Vendors
      Many Thai vendors did not understand the process of workflow inside LPO and view LPO as part
of the government bureaucratic system. Having little experience in international bidding (for many this
was their first opportunity for international bidding), many venders had to rely on their sub-contractors
for equipment installation and deliver, causing problem and delay in equipment acceptance.

      Foreign Vendors

      Some foreign Vendors were not ready and well prepared when awarded multiple contracts or big
contracts with many items and hence delayed both delivery and acceptance. In addition, their Thai
representatives were not well qualified to perform proper installation or training that created some
dissatisfactions to the acceptance committees.




                                                  - 19 -

         Mutual Understanding of the Bank Guidelines for Procurement

         For future project better preparation and better understanding of the Bank Guidelines for
   procurement of all participating agencies at the early stage of the loan implementation will certainly be
   one of the key success.

(b) Cofinanciers:
         The Government of Australia, a cofinancier of this project, did not submit comments for inclusion
in this ICR. The Government of Australia provided a separate Project Completion Report for its
components. That report is listed in Annex 7, and information from the AusAID Project Completion
Report was used to support the findings of this ICR.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Not Applicable




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Selected teaching staff will be provided     2836 teaching staff of science faculty and     In addition to projected in last PSR, 9268
with short-term, specialized training to         805 of engineering were trained; 96 staff of   participants were trained in English
upgrade their teaching skills and technical      science faculty and 84 staff from engineering Language Training (ELT); and 11
knowledge.                                       faculty were trained in Australia; 2,295       participants were trained, in Australia in
                                                 teaching staff were also trained in-country in pedagogy and curriculum development.
                                                 pedagogy and curriculum development in         9,268 participants were also provided with
                                                 Australia;                                     (ELT). The RTG also provided training for
                                                                                                798 participants to strengthen their capacity
                                                                                                to operate and maintain equipment. Through
                                                                                                both TASEAP and the RTG, 368 short-term,
                                                                                                specialized overseas fellowships (250 and
                                                                                                118 respectively) were also awarded.
2 .1 Based on the figures for the base-line      157 undergraduate programs of science were Same as projected in last PSR
year, the number of science and engineering upgrades/developed (24.6% increase from
courses will be upgraded by an average of at base year (126)); 161 graduate programs of
least 20% in the participating institutions.     science were enhanced/developed (49.07%
                                                 increase from base year (108)); and, 1,443
                                                 courses of science were
                                                 upgraded/developed;

                                                 179 undergraduate programs of engineering
                                                 enhanced/developed (13.3% increase from
                                                 the base year (158)); 137 graduate programs
                                                 of engineering were enhanced/developed
                                                 (82.67% increase from base year (75)); and,
                                                 1,235 courses of engineering were
                                                 enhanced/developed.
2.2 Throughout the life of the project,          81 Australian short-term consultants visited   Same as projected in last PSR
AusAID will provide US$7.7 million to employ and organized 193 training workshops for
consultants to assist participating universities academic staff of science and engineering
in their development of new, and                 faculties; 21 Australian short-term
improvement of existing, undergraduate           consultants visited and organized 131
programs in science and engineering.             training workshops on teaching methods and
                                                 curriculum development; 23 Australian
                                                 short-term consultants visited and conducted
                                                 26 workshops on linkages for joint program
                                                 collaboration, research, student exchanges
                                                 and networks.
3.1 Equipment is provided according to an        Revised procurement plan is 97.83%             Based upon a revised and agreed upon
agreed upon schedule of implementation.          complete. 37,860 items of equipment and        schedule of implementation , 100 percent of
                                                 supplies were accepted and integrated into     equipment and supplies were accepted (The
                                                 the participating institutional inventories.   final count of accepted items was 38,671)
                                                                                                and integrated into the participating
                                                                                                institutional inventories
3.2 Construction and facilities modification                                                    100% complete
is completed according to an agreed upon
schedule of implementation (already under
construction and financed
outside of the project)
3.3 Specialized training will be provided to     835 academic staff and technicians of          TASEAP supported in-country training for
selected laboratory managers and technical       science and engineering faculties were         328 staff in areas of planning staffing and
staff.                                           trained in-country and 70 academic staff       operational management of laboratories, and
                                                 were sent for advanced training courses in     about 70 staff for overseas training; RTG
                                                 equipment utilization in Australia.            provided in-country training for about 584
                                                                                                staff in operation and maintenance of
                                                                                                advanced equipment, and about 80 staff for
                                                                                                overseas training in similar areas. An
                                                                                                additional 493 staff were provided with
                                                                                                in-service training in equipment operations
                                                                                                and maintenance
4.1 By the end of the project, all equipment                                                    100% complete




                                                                     - 21 -

and associated supplies and materials
required by participating universities in
undergraduate science and engineering
programs will be identified, specified and
procured,
4.2 Within 12 months of completion of the                                                  Although it is not yet 12 months past project
project, the instructional programs will not be                                            completion, instructional programs are not
experiencing significant shortages in                                                      reporting any significant shortages of
equipment, supplies and instructional                                                      supplies and equipment.
materials procured under USEEP.
4.3 All equipment, supplies and materials       30 faculties modified original asset       Same as projected in PSR
procured will also be inventoried.              management program for local use and
                                                applications. 36 faculties recorded
                                                equipment utilization in schedules and log
                                                books provided for that purpose
4.4 By the end of the project, all relevant and At time of PSR, no response possible       All relevant and operative laboratories are
operative laboratories will be fully provided                                              fully provided with necessary instructional
with the necessary instructional supplies and                                              supplies and materials to support
materials to support the undergraduate                                                     undergraduate science and engineering
science and engineering curriculum being                                                   curriculum being taught.
taught.




                                                                   - 22 -

 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                           Appraisal         Actual/ Latest         Percentage of
                                                            Estimate             Estimate             Appraisal

         Project Cost by Component                        US$ million          US$ million
 Strengthening the teaching capability of                       4.1                  2.6                   63.4
 faculty
 Upgrading the content of existing                             13.2               12.8                    97.0
 programs in science and engineering and
 broadening the range of programs relevant
 to Thailand's technological advancement
 Modernizing laboratories and                                 184.6              130.3                    70.6
 strengthening their management
 Improving the utilization of resources in                     59.6                  7.3                   12.2
 faculties of engineering and science and
 establishing a system for the large-scale
 procurement of equipment
                              Total Project Cost             261.5 1/              153.0
                    Total Financing Required                  261.5                153.0

1/ Although the project substantially met all its objectives and in some areas exceeded initial expectations, there was
significant cost savings. The Government canceled US$14.0 million in 2001. The cost savings were due to a
combination of the following factors: a) lower than expected costs for purchased equipment; b) the state of the
economy during the Asian Financial Crisis; c) rigorous, centralized specification procedures and associated training
that were initially used by the project team; and d) higher than necessary estimates of equipment costs made during
project preparation.




                                                          - 23 -

Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/ Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

       Expenditure Category                                        Procurement Method

                                                ICB             NCB         Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost

1. Equipment                                    142.50         16.80            0.00          8.70         167.60

                                               (127.4)          (0.0)          (0.00)        (1.7)        (129.1)

2. Equipment O & M                                 0.00          0.00           0.00       57.30            57.30

                                                 (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.40)           (5.40)

3. Equipment Installation and                      0.00          0.00           0.00       17.00            17.00

  Procurement Supporting Cost                    (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.20)           (1.20)

4. Consultants                                     0.00          0.00           0.00          9.50           9.50

                                                 (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (9.10)           (9.10)

5. Training                                        0.00          0.00           0.00          4.10           4.10

                                                 (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.60)           (2.60)

6. Universities Linkages                           0.00          0.00           0.00          3.70           3.70

   (Research Program)                            (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.70)           (3.70)

7. Project Mangement                               0.00          0.00           0.00          2.30           2.30

                                                 (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.90)           (1.90)

  Total                                         142.50         16.80            0.00      102.20           261.50

                                              (127.40)         (0.00)          (0.00)     (25.60)         (153.0)
Remark: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan. All cost include contingencies.

     N.B.F. : Not Bank - financed




                                                      - 24 -

Project Financing by Category of Expenditure (In US$ million equivalent)

                               Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal

Category of Expenditure Bank          Govt.     CoF.     Bank       Govt.       CoF. Bank . Govt.         CoF.

1. Equipment                  143.40    24.20     -      127.40        1.70        -      88.84      7.02   -


2. Equipment Installation and -         17.00     -          -         1.20        -       -         7.06   -

 Procurement Supporting Cost

3. Equipment O & M              -       57.30     -          -         5.40        -       -         9.42   -


4. Institutional Development

   1) Consultants               -        0.50    9.00        -         0.10        9.00    -        20.00 100.00

   2) Training                  -        2.60    1.50        -         1.10        1.50    -        42.31 100.00

   3) Universities Linkages     -        0.20    3.50        -         0.20        3.50    -      100.00 100.00

5. Project Management           -        2.30     -          -         1.90        -       -        82.61   -


     Total                    143.40 104.10     14.00 127.40          11.80      14.00 88.84        11.14 100.00


Remark * USEEP has cancelled loan amount USD 14.00 million,then the existing loan is USD 129.40 million




                                               - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic costs and benefit analysis was carried out at the time of project preparation, nor was it done
at the time of the ICR.




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              11/01/1994                5    Principal Economist (1);              S               S
                                             Engineering Educator (1);
                                             Science Educator (1);
                                             Technical Educator (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              05/01/1995                5    Principal Economist (1);              S               S
                                             Engineering Educator (1);
                                             Science Educator (1);
                                             Technical Educator (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1)

 Supervision

              08/28/1997                4    MISSION LEADER (1);                   S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              12/05/1997                4    ECONOMIST (1);                        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/19/1998                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TECHNOLOGY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              12/10/1998                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
              06/09/1999                7    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             EDUCATION ANALYST (1);
                                             DEPUTY PS OF MUA (1);
                                             PROGRAM MANAGER
                                             AUSAID (1); EDUCATION
                                             MANAGER (1)
              06/12/2000                3    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);               S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             RESEARCH ASSISTANT (1)
              3/01/2001                 5    Senior Operations Officer (1);        S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Specialist (1);
                                             Science Education Specialist (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                           Research Assistant (1)
               02/01/2002              5   Senior Operations Officer (1);       S    S
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Financial Specialist (1);
                                           Science Education Specialist (1);
                                           Research Assistant
               05/01/2003              7   Senior Operations Officer (1);       S    S
                                           Education Specialist (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Financial Specialist (1);
                                           Portfolio Coordinator (1);
                                           Program Assistant (1);
                                           Research Assistant (1)

 ICR
               10/01/2003             5     Senior Operations Officer           S    S
                                            (1);
                                            Procurement Specialist (1);
                                            Financial Specialist (1);
                                            Procurement Analyst (1);
                                            Research Analyst (1



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                        147,906.11
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                         73,953.06
  Supervision                            NA                        342,782.36
  ICR                                    NA                         12,124.94
  Total                                  NA                        576,766.47




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

"USEEP - Project Completion Report for Loan 4160", Loan Project Office, Commission on Higher
Education, Ministry of Education, Kingdom of Thailand, January 2004 (Government's Final Report).

"USEEP - Progress Report for Loan 4160", Loan Project Office, Commission on Higher Education,
Ministry of Education, Kingdom of Thailand, January 2004.

"USEEP - Monitoring and Evaluation Report for Loan 4160", Loan Project Office, Commission on Higher
Education, Ministry of Education, Kingdom of Thailand, August 2003.

Project Communication Files (Aide Memoires and other forms of communication) for Loan 4160, The
World Bank; Washington and Bangkok.

Project Status Report Files for Loan 4160, The World Bank, Washington and Bangkok.

"TASEAP - Project Completion Report", Australian Agency for International Development and Kingdom
of Thailand, Ministry of University Affairs, Bangkok, June 2001 (draft).

"Loan Agreement Loan Number 4160-TH - Universities Science and Engineering Education Project",
between Kingdom of Thailand and The World Bank, July 29, 1997

'Staff Appraisal Report, (Report Number 16151-TH; Loan Number 4160-TH) - Universities Science and
Engineering Education Project", The World Bank, Washington, February 7, 1997.




                                                  - 31 -

- 32 -

