Document of
The World Bank
Report No.16151-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
February 7, 1997
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1996)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B 25.0
B1.00 = US$0.040
ABBREVIATIONS
AusAID      -      Australian Agency for International Development
FU                 Functional Unit
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR         -      Implementation Completion Report
NCB         -      National Competitive Bidding
MOE         -      Ministry of Education
MUA         -      Ministry of University Affairs
NEC         -      National Education Commission
NESDB       -      National Economic and Social Development Board
O&M         -      Operations and Maintenance
PCC         -      Project Coordinating Committee
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
PPAR        -      Project Performance Audit Report
PPB         -      Policy and Planning Bureau
RIT         -      Rajamangala Institute of Technology
RU          -      Ramkhamhaeng University
S&E         -      Science and Engineering
SOE         -      Statements of Expenditure
S&T         -      Science and Technology
STOU        -      Sukhothai Thammathirat Open University
TDRI        -      Thailand Development Research Institute
Government of Thailand Fiscal Year
October I - September 30
Academic Year
April - March



ii
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ............................................................     v
I.  SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION.                                                     I
A. Introduction.                                                                           I
B.  Overview of Higher Education .
Science and Engineering Education.                                         3
Financing.                                                                  5
C.    Major Issues in Science and Engineering Education.                                   6
Science and Technology Manpower Requirements.                              6
Academic Staffing.                                                                 9
Curriculum .10
Equipment .10
D.  Government's Policies and Plans .                                                     I
HI.  THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED .13
A.  Bank's Experience in Education .13
B. Lessons Learned .16
C.  Bank's Assistance Strategy .16
Education Lending Strategy .17
III. THE PROJECT .19
A. Origin of the Project .19
B.  Project Background and Rationale .20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited Thailand during May 1-26, 1995,
comprising Messrs. W. Rees (Mission Leader), V. Desa (Engineering Educator - Consultant), J-C Woo (Science
Educator - Consultant), S-Z Sung (Technical Educator - Consultant), and Ms. 0. Regel (Operations Officer). Peer
reviewers were Messrs. J. Furtado and Y. Saran. The report has been endorsed by Messrs. S. Burmester (Chief,
EAIHR) and J. Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Director, EAI).
Vice President:    Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, Acting, EAP
Director:          Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EA I
Division Chief:     Sven Burmester, EAIHR
Task Manager:       William Rees, Principal Economist, EAIHR



iii
C.         Project Objectives  .....................................................                                                         21
D.         Project Description  ......................................................                                                       21
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION   ............    24
A.         Costs   .....................................................                                                                     24
B.         Financing .....................................................                                                                  25
C.         Project Management and  Implementation   ....................................................                                     26
D.         Monitoring  and  Review   ......................................................                                                  26
E.         Procurement .....................................................                                                                27
F.         Disbursements .....................................................                                                              28
G.         Accounts, Audits and  Reporting  .............................                             ........................               29
H.         Environmental Impact .....................................................                                                        29
I.         Project Sustainability  ......................................................                                                    29
J          Economic and  Institutional Analysis ......................................................                                       30
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.         Benefits  .....................................................                                                                   31
B.         Risks   .....................................................                                                                     31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................                                                                                32
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1        Projected  Employment of S&E  Graduates ....................................................                                       7
1.2    The Annual Number of Engineering Graduates Per One Million Population                                                                  7
1.3        Annual Undergraduate  Engineering  Enrollments  .............................                              ............            8
4.1        Summary  of Project Costs by  Category  of Expenditure  ................                                  ...............         24
4.2        Financing  Plan   .....................................................                                                           25
4.3         Summary  of Proposed  Procurement Arrangements  .......................                                 ...............          28
ANNEXES
1.         Number and Proportion of Students in Public and Private Institutions,
by  Level and  Type of Education, 1994  .....................................................                                 33
2.         Enrollment in  Science and  Engineering  Faculties .............................                           ............           34
3.         Accreditation  of B. Engineering  Degree Programs  .......................                               ...............          37
4.         Australian  Technical Assistance Program    ....................................................                                  38
5.         Project Expenditure by  Year, including  Contingencies .................                                 ................         51
6.         Terms of Reference of Project Coordinating  Committee  ...............                                    ...............         52
7.         Implementation  Schedule  ......................................................                                                  53
8.         Bank  Supervision  Mission  Plan   .............................                           ........................               55



iv
9.       Key Performance Indicators ...........................                        ...............................             56
10.       Schedule of Disbursements .........................                         .................................              57
11.       Selected Documents Available in the Project File  .....................                         ...................       58
CHARTS
Chart 1 - The Structure of the National Education  System ........................................                                   59
Chart 2 - Ministry  of University Affairs ......................................................... ..                               60
Chart 3 - Organization Chart for Project Management ............................                            .................        61
MAP                   IBRD Number 28307






v
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Thailand
Implementing       Ministry of University Affairs
Agency:
Beneficiary:       Not applicable
Poverty:           Not applicable
Amount:            US$143.4 million
Terms:             Standard amortization term, grace period and interest rate for fixed
US dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement
period of 3-6 years. The basis for the selection of these loan terms is their
consistency with the Government's overall debt management
requirements.
Commitment         0.75% on undisbuwsed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
Fee:               signing, less any waiver.
Financing          See para. 4.5
Plan:
Net present Value: Not applicable
Map:               IBRD No. 28307
Project
Identification No:  4805






THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION
A. Introduction
1.1         Sound  macroeconomic  policies have  underpinned  Thailand's economic
performance in recent years, making it among the best in the world with real GDP growing at
almost 11% p.a. during 1987-1993. Rapid industrialization has been a key to this performance.
Manufacturing now accounts for over 27% of GDP giving Thailand the largest manufacturing
sector within ASEAN. A strong export performance has been sustained with manufacturing
exports growing about 25% p.a. in real terms during 1986-93. This success has been built
largely on the expansion of relatively low-technology, low wage/skill production in such
industries as textiles, apparel and basic electronics and sustained by a steady flow of foreign
direct investment. However, Thailand's comparative advantage in these industries is being
eroded and to sustain growth prospects in the long term, the country will need to maintain its
competitiveness and move up the technology chain to produce higher value-added technology-
intensive products.
1.2         In order to do this, Thailand must address an increasingly serious human resource
constraint in the form of rising shortages of scientific and technical skills accompanied by a
relatively low level of education in the workforce. While this broad-based human resource
problem must be addressed, the key leadership role in Thailand's technological transformation
will be played by graduates in science and engineering produced by the universities. Shortages
of scientists and engineers have been widely reported and international indicators show that
Thailand is not well-endowed with scientific and technical (S&T) skills. S&T manpower is
currently around 13 per 10,000 of the labor force compared with Korea which had 37 per 10,000
in 1990. The annual number of engineering graduates per million of population is currently
around 70 in Thailand compared with nearly 660 per million in Korea in 1991. A low level of
R&D investment and little private sector contribution is another area in which Thailand is
lagging. Policies are being implemented to raise the output of scientists and engineers as well as
to strengthen R&D activities (paras. 1.34-1.36).
B. Overview of Higher Education
1.3         Thailand's education system is highly developed. A strong commitment to equity
has led to universal access to primary education, with high completion rates, as well as to the
establishment of effective nonformal programs to increase adult literacy. Lower secondary
education has been expanded to provide places for about half of the primary school graduates,
and in principle there is an upper secondary place for each graduate of lower secondary



2
education, nearly half of whom  are in vocational schools and colleges.  The secondary
enrollment rate in Thailand stagnated through the 1980s at about 30% of the age group, which
was about half the rates in Malaysia and Indonesia and one-third of those in Korea and Taiwan,
China. The Government responded to the problem by extending the basic education cycle from 6
to 9 years i.e. to include the first three years of secondary education. By 1997, it is planned that
all grade 6 graduates will enter grade 7. This policy will result in a corresponding expansion of
upper secondary enrollments. At the end of secondary schooling, about 43% of the grade 12
students take the National University Entrance Examination, a vehicle to screen entrants to
degree programs in conventional public universities in which enrollments have remained tightly
controlled. The number of places for new entrants is set at 42,502 or 32% of the total number of
candidates (134,654).
1.4           The Thai higher education system  is unique in its composition, encompassing
conventional public and private institutions, as well as two large-scale open/distance universities,
all of which enrolled about 733,343 students in 1994 (Annex 1). Traditional public institutions
admit students strictly on academic criteria, and are characterized by relatively small enrollments
(155,602 in 1993) which have been quite stable in recent years, and high unit costs (B53,040 or
$2,210 per student), of which only about 5-10% is recovered via student fees. The open/distance
universities, Ramkhamhaeng University (RU) and Sukhothai Thammathirat Open University
(STOU), enroll the largest number of students, about 494,115 in 1993. Their unit costs are low
(B600 per student),' about half of which are recovered via student fees. With an enrollment ratio
of 20%,2 the coverage of the Thai higher education system is well above that in other countries at
the same per capita income level.
1.5           There are 35 private colleges and universities, consisting of 70%  for profit and
30% non-profit. Most of the operating costs are financed through student fees. Almost half of
these institutions are located in the Bangkok metropolitan region while the remainder are
scattered throughout the country. They offer mainly bachelor's degree programs, but graduate
programs are gradually being introduced.  Private universities are also starting to enter
engineering education (para. 1.36).  In recent years, enrollments in private colleges and
universities have been growing more rapidly than that in public institutions, from 117,390
students in 1992 to 141,920 in 1994.
l World Bank (1991) "Decision and Change in Thailand: Three Studies in Support of the Seventh Plan".
2 Total enrollment in higher education divided by the population in the relevant age group. However, the coverage
rate needs to be adjusted to assess the volume of graduates produced. In the case of Thailand, the adjustment is
necessary since a sizable share of the students in the large-scale open/distance system, mainly in STOU, are
employed people not seeking a degree but simply to upgrade their skills. Moreover, a significant number of
students in both RU and STOU attend part-time, and so complete their courses over a much longer period (4-8
years) than their peers in the conventional institutions. This pattern suggests that the number of "active" students is
much less than enrollment. An estimate of "active" students can be derived by applying the 25% graduation rate to
the total enrolled. Adding this result to enrollments in the traditional closed universities and MOE's degree granting
institutions gives an adjusted total higher education enrollment in 1987 of about 423,000 which translates to an
enrollment ratio of 11.9%. This is still above the average of around 10% for a country at Thailand's income level.



3
1.6         The Ministry of University Affairs (MUA) oversees the 23 public and 35 private
conventional universities and colleges, as well as the two open universities. In addition, the
Ministry of Education (MOE) has authority over 36 teacher colleges (which also offer a range of
non-teaching vocational courses) and 31 campuses of the Rajamangala Institute of Technology
(RIT) which offer degree level courses as well as certificate and diploma courses. Enrollments
in these two systems were about 270,000 and 72,100 respectively in 1994.
Science and Engineering Education
1.7         There are 23 faculties of science in the public universities, including
Ramkhamhaeng Open University (Annex 2). New faculties of engineering and science are being
established in three other public universities. Plans are being made for the establishment of four
new public universities with strong faculties of science and engineering. The existing science
faculties can be categorized as: (a) faculties developing new undergraduate science degrees
(either as a new university, as a new faculty of science or as converting a science support
program into a full science degree program); or as (b) faculties with established degree programs
which are trying to upgrade the quality of their activities in a time of enrollment expansion.
Within the faculties there are 112 departments concentrated mainly in mathematics and related
subjects (29% of total departments), biological sciences (21%), chemistry (19%) and physical
sciences (15%).
1.8         Admission to the faculties of science and engineering is based on the candidate
possessing a secondary school certificate with the science/math elective and on his/her ranking,
within the grade range set by each university, obtained by the candidate in the National
University Entrance Examination. These requirements are applicable to all admissions to the
public universities in the Bangkok metropolitan region.  In the regional universities, 50% of
admissions is allocated to those who have passed the Entrance Examination and have chosen the
regional university and faculty. The remaining 50% is allocated each year to secondary school
certificate holders in the region who pass the regional university's own entrance examination. If
quotas need to be made up, there is provision for some individual departments to set their own
entrance examinations. This approach has improved the equity of access to universities outside
Bangkok and given rural students greater opportunities to study science and engineering and
thereby qualify for high-paying employment in the future.
1.9         Enrollments in the science faculties in the public universities (excluding RU,
which experienced substantial annual fluctuations) increased at about 11.5% p.a. during 1989-93.
Enrollments in the engineering faculties grew at about 14.5% during the same period giving a
combined annual enrollment growth of around 13%. This is not appreciably below the target of
15% annual enrollment growth in science and engineering called for in the Seventh Plan (1992-
96), (para. 1.35).  The annual output of bachelors of science was 2,240 (including 598 from an
open university) in 1990 and this had increased to 3,030 in 1993.



4
1.10         The faculties of science offer programs in two categories: (a) courses for students
majoring in science i.e. those pursuing a B.S. degree; and (b) service courses for non-major
students who are enrolled in other faculties such as engineering, medicine and agriculture. The
number of credit hours required for the award of a B.S. degree is in the range 130-150 with some
variation between universities. Typically, basic science courses account for nearly 30% of total
credit hours and major subjects for nearly 50%.  General education, including languages,
accounts for the remainder. Within the science major, laboratory work takes up 15-25% of the
total, becoming more important in the senior years of the B.S. degree.
1.11         There are 15 schools of engineering in the public universities (Annex 2) offering
the B.Eng. degree in 23 disciplines. The structure of enrollments tends to reflect a past lack of
emphasis on the production of S&T manpower. Enrollments in undergraduate basic science and
engineering programs (35,750 in the public conventional universities) represent only about 23%
of total enrollments.  In Korea, the proportion is 36%.  Females represent 10% of total
engineering enrollments but the figure rises to 52% in science, concentrated mainly in biology
and related disciplines. Market information does influence engineering enrollments. This is
reflected in a declining trend in enrollments in mining while there is a substantial increase in
computer/electrical/electronic engineering, as a consequence of the growing demand to service
the computer/electronics/information technology diffusion. Increasing enrollments are also
evident in environmental engineering, as environmental legislation begins to impact on
infrastructure services and in industrial engineering, as industrial productivity gains capture the
attention of industrial managers.
1.12         Two models of undergraduate engineering education coexist, differing in the
extent of specialization and the practical orientation of the subject matter. In the first group are
most engineering departments which place emphasis on the fundamentals of engineering
synthesis in a given engineering discipline, with offerings of departmental majors and technical
electives that contribute to the flexibility of the programs. The gap in hard core engineering
education (e.g. in production engineering, design) is shared with industry during the compulsory
industrial training requirement (para. 1.13). Examples are electrical engineering departments
with majors in electrical power; electronics and communications; and control systems. Another
is the civil engineering department with departmental majors in structural, geo-technical,
transportation, construction and environmental engineering.  The second group comprises
specialized engineering departments with emphasis on in-house hard core engineering and work
on technical applications. They offer training with a strong vocational orientation and have close
links with industry. Examples of such programs are the departments of instrumentation and
control engineering, telecommunications engineering, electronics, and computer engineering.
Accreditation practice has a basis similar to that of the US Accreditation Board for Engineering
and Technology, where engineering professional societies determine periodically the distribution
of semester hours credits among science subjects (Annex 3).



5
1.13        Most engineering departments have, on the average, a. satisfactory minimum
credit requirement of 150 credit units for the undergraduate degree. Each engineering discipline
contains a mix of natural sciences, mathematics and engineering sciences. This mix serves to
diversify and broaden the spectrum of course offerings within the engineering specialization.
The fundamentals of computer engineering and engineering graphics are required subjects for all
undergraduate students during the first two years of studies. In addition, a compulsory industrial
training of 240 hours is also required at the end of the third year of studies.
1.14        The internal efficiency of science and engineering programs is high. In science
the passing rate is around 88%. It should also be recognized that the drop-out/failure rate is less
than the 12% implied from the previous figure because a number of students complete
successfully the first year of the B.S. program and then transfer to other majors such as
engineering and medicine. In engineering, the passing rate is almost identical at 87%. There is
a tendency for dropout rates to be higher in the newer regional universities but this reflects in
part the transfer of some of students to more prestigious universities after successfully
completing first year studies.
1.15        Studies have shown that engineering graduates have no difficulty finding
employment.3 The placement rates are: 100% for structural and construction engineering; 90-
98% for materials handling technology, production engineering, mechanical engineering,
electrical, and chemical engineering; and 80-88% for civil engineering and petroleum
engineering. The employment of science graduates is harder to track because there is a much
looser fit between science qualifications and job requirements than in the case of engineers.
Data for 1989 show an employment rate of 82% for BS graduates and the current rate is
undoubtedly higher due to the increasing demand for science-trained manpower in recent years.
Financing
1.16        Public education is supported almost entirely by the central government. The
share of the central government budget allocated to education grew from 17% in 1989 to 19.6%
in 1993, and over the same period total education expenditure (public and private) increased its
share in GDP from about 2.7 to 3.6%. In 1993, public expenditure by level was allocated as
follows: 49% primary, 28% secondary, 17% higher and 6% other (including assistance to private
schools and educational services and support).
1.17        The share of higher education as a percentage of total education expenditure
declined steadily during the last decade. As a percentage of the national budget, higher education
represented 4.6% in the late 1960s; this had increased to 5.0% in 1976, but had decreased to
3.4% by 1990. Nevertheless, total public expenditures for higher education increased from B3.1
3Ministry of University Affairs "The Status of Job Placements of Graduates, 1988-89" and NESDB "Comparative
Study of Graduate Employment Situation."



6
billion in 1976 to BI 1.5 billion in 1990. In 1994, about 35% of the higher education budget was
allocated to salaries and wages, and 10% to equipment, land and construction, 15% to subsidies,
37% to general expenses, and 3% to utilities. In 1989, the unit cost of higher education as a
percentage of GNP per capita was 34%.4
1.18          Fees are levied at the secondary and tertiary levels but the proportion of recurrent
expenditures recovered at the higher education level is lower than at secondary school level. It is
estimated at only around 7% of recurrent costs in heavily subsidized conventional public
universities5 and about 10% in secondary schools. When capital cost is added, the estimated
percentage of tuition fees and other private educational costs to the total cost becomes lower.
The unit costs of higher education differ sharply between the conventional and open universities.
Among conventional universities, the unit costs range from B 132,000 in Mahidol to B 13,000 in
Srinakharintaraviroj. This wide dispersion stems in part from differences in specializations
offered, relative emphasis between research and teaching, as well as the size of institutions.
Among open universities, the unit costs range from B11,140 in RU to B520 in STOU. This wide
variation results from the different modes of instruction used in these two institutions.6
C. Major Issues in Science and Engineering Education
1.19          The recent economic expansion, which began in the mid eighties, was driven by
the rise in manufacturing exports and the surge in private investment, and this intensified
Thailand's human resources bottleneck, particularly the shortages of science and engineering
manpower.
Science and Technology Manpower Requirements
1.20          In 1991, the Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI) made manpower
projections based on a survey of 1000 firms in the public and private sectors.' The forecasting
model indicated high growth trends in the utility and transportation sectors, construction, and
textile and garment industries, and a low growth rate for agriculture, basic industries and the fuel
sector. The TDRI's projected demand for science and engineering (S&E) graduates is shown
below:
4Setapanich, Nongram, Supaporn Kohengkul and Kuakul Chang-jai. Higher Education in Thailand. (June 1991).
5Students in Open Universities, teacher training colleges and RIT bear a greater share, namely 115%, 34% and
45%, respectively.
6 RU offers both lectures and self study programs through textbooks and other teaching materials while STOU
emphasizes distance leaming through the use of radio, television and supplemental instructional materials.
7 Limskul, Kitti and Thaneit Khantigaroon. "S&T Manpower for Industries and Services: Demand and Supply
Projections", in Educational Ontions for the Future of Thailand Vol.ll, The 1991 Year-End Conference, Thailand
Development Research Institute (Dec. 1991).



7
Table 1.1 Projected Employment for S&E Graduates
Year                      1990               1995               2000
Engineering graduate and postgraduate  55,210             89,464             138,957
DemandB.Eng (base case)               48,600              80,700             125,680
Demand B.Eng (rapid growth case)      48,600              92,230             171,240
Science graduates and postgraduates     n/a                n/a                n/a
Demand B.S. (base case)l/             42,600              62,450             66,540
Demand B.S. (rapid growth case)l/     42,600              62,450             84,810
1/ Excluding mathematics and computer science.
1.21         The extent of the shortage of engineering graduates in Thailand can also be
assessed by comparison with neighboring countries in terms of the annual number of engineering
graduates per one million population:
Table 1.2 The Annual Number of Engineering Graduates
per One Million Population
Annual Engineering Graduate
Country                        Year                     per Million Pop.
Taiwan                         1984                           437
Singapore                       1984                           417
Korea                          1991                          657
Thailand                        1988                           40
1993                          73*
* estimate
1.22         By contrast, the supply of engineering and science graduates is low. MUA
projected the evolution of the annual undergraduate engineering enrollments between 1992-1997
as follows:



8
Table 1.3 Annual Undergraduate Engineering Enrollments and Graduates
Year                1992        1993        1994        1995        1996       1997
Engineering enrollments
Public universities        19,443     22,025      25,374      28,364      29,946      31,787
Private universities        5,312       5,577       5,835       6,418       7,095      7,384
Engineering graduates
Public universities         3,258      4,965       5,127       5,452       5,480         n.a.
Private universities         403        1,328       1,883       1,715       1,750        n.a.
The target of an annual output of 8,000 engineering graduates is not likely to be met by the end
of the Seventh Plan in 1996.
1.23          One of the main constraints to increased production of science and engineering
graduates is the difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified staff in public universities in the
face of rising demand in the private sector. This problem needs to be addressed if MUA's plan
to increase admissions to undergraduate programs in science and engineering by 15% annually is
to be achieved. Since university professors' salaries are based on the civil service pay scale, their
salaries are much lower than those offered by the private sector.' In areas of serious shortage, a
scheme is operating to top-up salaries through the award of research honoraria. However, the
top-up does not provide competitive salaries and the scheme has had only limited success.
1.24          In order to attract more qualified scholars to public universities, the MUA plans
to: (a) improve the academic working conditions and R&D facilities; (b) support the transfer of
advanced technology from abroad; and (c) expand S&T cooperation with other countries. In
addition, MUA would also provide overseas fellowships to public university professors and other
prospective professorial candidates.9 However, given the current pool of 1,323 full-time
Comparison of Salaries (Baht/month)
Public University                    Private Sector
B.Eng. degree                 B5,000 + B2,200                      B15,000
(recently approved for
Lecturer)
PhD.                          B8,000 + 3,000                       B25,000
(recently approved for
Asst. Professor)
9  Under the "Teaching Staff Development 7-Year Program" some 120 potential lecturers of the faculties of
engineering would be sent abroad annually for 5 years to complete their masters and doctoral degrees, another 50,
currently studying in-country for their postgraduate degrees, would complete their dissertation/research abroad.



9
engineering teachers in the public universities' faculties of engineering, it is unlikely that the
universities can sustain a large outflow for overseas study without seriously lowering the quality
of engineering education. The current practice of some of the new engineering departments to
depend on part-time teachers is not the best solution to introducing new curricula or to setting up
modem laboratories. A possible solution, being considered by MUA, is to recruit full-time
foreign professors during this interim period.
1.25          In  an  effort to  make  university  teaching  more attractive, the  MUA  is
implementing a policy for the two new public universities (Suranaree and Valailak), allowing the
universities to receive government funds as a block grant rather than as a line budget allocation.
The grant approach gives flexibility to the setting of salaries with the result that competitive
salaries can be offered to high quality faculty. Furthermore, universities are not required to
return unspent grant funds to the treasury. MUA's move to have this arrangement extended to
public universities established under the old law has been delayed by the political process. Some
of the measures being taken by regional universities to retain teaching staff include setting up
staff housing cooperatives and levying a special fee of B600 per credit unit for topping up staff
salaries.
Academic Staffing
1.26          Faculty qualifications need to be raised. Only about 27% of engineering faculty
and 31% of the science faculty have doctorates (compared with about 80% of such faculty in
Korea). Most of the faculty have masters degrees and many of them are young and are suitable
candidates for doctoral studies. The problem is being addressed through the teaching staff
development program which is sending qualified academics overseas to obtain higher degrees
(para. 1.24).
1.27          The overall staff/student ratio in the engineering faculties is around 1:18, on the
basis of the student enrollments in each of the 4 years of undergraduate studies and graduate
programs. A more rational ratio is derived by excluding first year students as they are taught by
general subject teachers in such courses as basic science, mathematics, language and humanities.
In this case, the overall staff/student ratio in engineering is more reasonable, at 1:12.10 In the
science faculties (excluding the open universities), the overall staff/student ratio is a reasonable
1:12.4, but if adjustment is made for the teaching of basic service courses in the first year, the
ratio improves to 1:9.4. However, there is evidence that the ratios for both engineering and
science have been deteriorating in recent years as academic staff have been recruited to industry
while enrollments have continued to rise. Between 1992 and 1993, teaching staff in the science
faculties declined by 5% with Ph.Ds departing at double this rate. The overall staff/student ratio
Furthermore, some 70 teaching staff annually will spend a year abroad on fellowships for upgrading and another 70
senior staff on short exposure visits.
10 This overall ratio conceals less satisfactory individual ratios, for example at King Mongkhut's Institute of
Technology, North Bangkok and to a lesser extent at Kasetsart University, which have been brought about by recent
substantial increases in admissions to their undergraduate engineering programs.



10
in engineering declined from  1:16.2 in 1991 to 1:18.4 in 1992.  Thus, if MUA's goal of
increasing admissions to undergraduate programs in science and engineering by 15% annually is
to be achieved, while retaining acceptable staff/student ratios, the universities will have to recruit
and retain additional faculty.
Curriculum
1.28          Current engineering  and  science education curricula often do not reflect
adequately the emerging needs of the country's technology development. For example, the
faculties of engineering offer the B. Eng. in 23 disciplines but lack undergraduate disciplines
associated with materials engineering, biotechnology and machinery design engineering.
However, efforts are now being made by several universities to offer these and related
disciplines.
1.29          While there is some interdisciplinary collaboration between the faculty of
engineering and the other faculties in the preparation of final year student projects, and students
have the option of free electives, there is no major effort in interdisciplinary studies in areas
where it is most needed such as environmental engineering, where the emphasis continues to be
on water, sewage and soils to the exclusion of air/atmospheric pollution.
1.30          Although there is a required industrial training period as part of the curriculum,
this does not make up for the shortcomings of the programs offered by many faculties of
engineering, where laboratory work and practice account for only 8% of the total credit units
compared with 20% in Korea." Furthermore, the placement of students for industrial training is
expected to become increasingly difficult as enrollments expand.
Equipment
1.31          The lack of up-to-date equipment is widespread in science and engineering
laboratories and this is lowering the quality of courses offered. It has also inhibited the
introduction of new courses relevant to Thailand's technological advancement such as new
material science, biotechnology, etc. Many older established engineering departments have
made modest changes in curricula to reflect modem practices but very little has been done to
modernize their teaching, testing and research laboratories, most of which still reflect 25-year old
technology. Many testing machines stand idle as spare parts are no longer available in the
market. MUA's investment budget for equipping the faculties of engineering totaling B677
million during 1987-1993 was spent entirely on introducing computer/information technology.
" King Mongkhut's Institute of Technology has successfully managed, through considerable investment in
equipment, to raise its credit requirement for laboratory work and practice to 14%. Suranaree University of
Technology is introducing a trimester system and cooperative program (a sandwich of 4-month slices) alternatively
on campus and in employment in industry; this work experience carries 12 trimester credit units.



11
With the student enrollment of 22,025 in 1993, investment per student was very low. Despite an
increase to B541 million in 1994, the investment in laboratory equipment will amount to only
about US$2,100 per student, which is less than half that invested in the national colleges of
engineering in Korea.
1.32        In the science laboratories, equipment deficiencies range from  inadequate
provision of basic teaching equipment to lack of the more complex items needed to teach the
advanced courses.   This situation weakens the teaching of fundamentals in basic science
programs which affects adversely both students majoring in science and those taking basic
service courses as part of other majors such as engineering.  The lack of more advanced
equipment lowers the quality of laboratory work which is particularly important in the senior
years. The fact that much of the existing equipment is out of date impedes students in gaining
familiarity with the types of instrumentation used in industry. It also reduces the capacity of
senior students to carry out project work in which they gain vital research experience.  To
overcome the deficiencies in the provision of laboratory equipment, a re-equipment plan has
been proposed which calls for US$227 million for the science faculties and US$268 million for
engineering during 1995-99.
D. Government's Policies and Plans
1.33        The Seventh Plan (1992-96) recognizes that expansion of secondary education
must be given a high priority if the education level of the workforce is to be raised to enhance
productivity and also to provide the basis for the expansion of higher education. The Plan calls
for extending compulsory education from six to nine years. The transition rate from primary to
secondary was planned to rise to at least 73% by 1996 and this target has already been exceeded -
the rate being 86% in 1994. Consequently, the Government now intends to achieve a transition
rate of 100% by 1997. The major impact of the expansion has been felt outside Bangkok where
families in the provinces have responded positively to special incentive programs to increase
enrollments.12 The Plan also recognizes that a more advanced technological future for Thailand
must be underpinned by greater emphasis on education in science, mathematics, foreign
languages and in vocational and technical fields. This would be achieved through revising
relevant curricula at all levels, upgrading academic staff in higher education through fellowships
for higher degrees, strengthening inservice teacher training, and modernizing laboratories and
workshops. These quality-improving investments would underpin the policy of increasing the
supply of technically and scientifically-trained manpower at all levels, in response to serious
shortages in the labor market.
1.34        Within the university subsector, the Plan addresses concerns about shortages of
S&T manpower by laying down specific targets for a significant expansion in the production of
12 See Staff Appraisal Report of the Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project.



12
scientists and engineers. On the understanding that developing indigenous technology is a
crucial factor in economic growth, the government set specific targets to increase: (a) the number
of engineers from 9.8 to 14.9 per 10,000 population; (b) the number of scientists from 7.2 to
10.2; (c) the number of agriculturists from 6.7 to 10.5; and (d) the number of S&T researchers
from 1.4 to 2.5 per 10,000 population, with an increase in the R&D budget from 0.2% of GNP in
1987 to at least 1% by 1997 and 1.5% by 2004. The output of science graduates is planned to
increase from about 2,000 in 1992 to 5,000 in 1996 and the output of engineers from about 4,100
to 5,500 during the same period.
1.35        The Plan calls for increasing the annual admission to the public universities in the
fields of science and engineering by 15% with the aim of changing the current proportion of
graduates from 30% for science and technology and 70% for arts and social sciences to 40% and
60%, respectively, by 1996, and to 50% each by the year 2000. In the latter year, it is expected
that 20% of graduates will be in engineering and 30% in the sciences. To achieve this, the MUA
plans to: (a) increase student enrollments in the existing faculties of engineering and science in
eight public universities; (b) establish new faculties of engineering and science in three other
existing public universities; and (c) create four new public universities with strong faculties of
science and engineering.
1.36        MUA has eased regulations on private universities, now permitting them to offer
engineering degree programs.  Fourteen private universities have established faculties of
engineering, which in the 1993-94 academic year admitted approximately 2100 students to the
B.Eng. degree programs. Admissions are open to secondary school graduates, from both the
general and technical/vocational streams. Accreditation of engineering degree programs offered
by private universities is closely monitored by the Bureau of Private Higher Education Standards
of MUA. No transfer system exists at present between public and private universities. In
addition, the MUA has initiated a new law to make university teaching more attractive to faculty,
although extension of this law beyond the two new public universities has been delayed (para
1.25). The Government has also introduced a B20 billion loan fund with subsidized interest
rates to support the expansion of private institutions.
1.37        To complement expansion plans, quality improvement measures are also being
taken.  The qualifications of the faculty are being raised.  Only about 24% of engineering
faculty and 31% of science faculty have doctorates (compared with nearly 80% of such faculty
in Korea). The Government is therefore implementing a program which provides about 200
overseas fellowships per year for faculty to pursue graduate degrees. This is complemented by a
program of practical training overseas to ensure that well-qualified faculty are exposed to the
latest trends in science and engineering teaching, relevant research, new teaching technologies,
etc. The lack of up-to-date equipment and weak management are widespread in the science and
engineering laboratories and this is lowering the quality of courses and inhibiting research. A
large-scale program for modernizing laboratory equipment is in place (with a total cost of nearly
US$600 million) and a plan for strengthening laboratory management has also been drawn up.



13
II. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Bank's Experience in Education
2.1         The Bank has assisted the development of Thailand's education system under six
loans/credits during the period 1966-82. Bank lending amounted to US$ 154 million or about
35% of total project costs of US$453 million. The overall direction of Bank lending under the
six projects was consistent with education policy as it evolved under the first five national plans
(1962-86). The first two projects focused on increasing the supply of technical manpower for
industry and agriculture. Later projects had a broader educational focus and were consistent with
the major educational reforms, introduced in 1978, which aimed at equality of educational
opportunity, curriculum reform and improved management of the education system.
Consequently, the later projects focused on the expansion of educational capacity in the rural
areas, the introduction of diversified secondary curricula and the strengthening of education
management."
2.2         The first education project in Thailand (Ln. 471-TH) supported quality
improvement and expansion of outputs in selected vocational institutions. The project financed
construction, renovation and equipment for 24 trade, industrial and agricultural schools and an
agricultural teacher training college.  The project also included technical assistance for
curriculum development and for upgrading teacher training. The PPAR for the project (Report
No. 770, June 13, 1975) concluded that the project was implemented successfully. In general,
overall enrollment and output targets were met and new well-balanced curricula were introduced.
The technical assistance program was completed successfully and this was due, in part, to close
cooperation between overseas advisers and local counterparts. Equipment procurement was
delayed initially due to the late arrival of advisers and this delay was exacerbated by cumbersome
procurement procedures.  These problems were largely responsible for the project being
completed four years behind schedule. Some items of equipment were judged to be too
sophisticated for the schools and, in the case of some agricultural equipment, not relevant to local
conditions. Some difficulty was experienced in retaining teachers with practical industry-related
experience because of the demand for such skills in the labor market.
2.3         The second education project (Ln. 822-TH) assisted in upgrading education and
research in agriculture and related fields in Kasetsart (Agricultural) University and also assisted
its move to a new rural campus. The project financed site development, construction, furniture
and equipment, and technical assistance for curriculum development, university management and
project unit support. The PPAR for the project (Report No. 4563, June 17, 1983) concluded that
the major objectives of the project were achieved although project completion was nearly three
years behind schedule. The latter was caused partly by an unrealistic implementation schedule
13 For a detailed review of Bank assistance to Thailand under the six projects, see: Educational Developmen In
Thailand: The Role of World Bank Lending. (Report No. 7306, June 24, 1988).



14
and also by design and construction delays in the civil works component. Targets for new
student places were met. Equipment procurement was fully satisfactory and the technical
assistance program was also implemented effectively. Regarding the latter, there was close
cooperation between advisers and local counterparts. The fellowship program resulted in a
substantial increase in faculty with graduate degrees. One weakness in project implementation
was that insufficient attention was paid to educational aspects of the project institution such as
changes in admissions, enrollments, graduates and the employment experience of the latter.
Thus there was only limited understanding of the educational impact of the project.
2.4         The third education project (Cr. 369-TH) marked a shift in emphasis away from
the narrower focus of meeting technical manpower requirements towards improving educational
opportunities, especially in the provinces. The third project aimed to extend and improve
elementary teacher training facilities in the provinces, introduce a diversified curriculum in rural
secondary schools, improve educational research and curriculum design and extend science
programs and assist long range planning in the Prince of Songkla University in the south of
Thailand. The project financed construction, furniture and equipment for selected primary
teachers' training colleges, rural high schools, a National Curriculum Development Center
(NCDC) and the Prince of Songkla University. Expert services and fellowships were included
under the project's technical assistance program. The PPAR for the project (Report No. 4574,
June 27, 1983), concluded that the project's objectives were met, with the exception of the
teacher training component. The diversified curricula for the rural secondary schools were
introduced successfully, the NCDC was operating effectively (although it could benefit from a
sharpening of the focus of its research function), the university science programs were improved
and their quantitative targets virtually achieved.  Expansion of rural teacher training
opportunities was achieved but not to the extent envisaged. Initially, there was a substantial
underestimation in teacher supply and the Government reduced teachers' college intakes because
of the emerging over-supply. Thus project-assisted colleges were underutilized. This situation
was identified soon after appraisal and project design should have been rectified accordingly.
The technical assistance program was generally successful but there was a need to monitor
fellows on their return to ensure that they entered positions relevant to their training. There was
also a need to observe a realistic mix between short study tours and long-term study for higher
degrees. The latter may not always be the most appropriate method of acquiring skills in certain
fields (e.g. curriculum development). The project closed 3.5 years behind schedule, due in part
to problems in the functioning of the project implementation unit, which lacked clearly-defined
jurisdiction and authority.
2.5         The fourth education project (Ln. 1271-TH) continued support for the expansion
of diversified secondary education in the provinces and assisted in the establishment of a national
adult education system. The project financed construction, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance for 50 diversified secondary schools and for four regional and 24 provincial adult
education centers. The project completion report (PCR) for the project (Report No. 5710, June
14, 1985), concluded that the project was a success with quantitative targets reached or
surpassed. Project implementation was facilitated by the establishment of a well-staffed Central



15
Project Unit (CPU), which was given the authority to simplify procurement procedures. The
technical assistance program was implemented successfully and the individuals who received
degree fellowships were, in the majority of cases, serving in relevant posts. Some difficulties
were experienced in the preparation of equipment lists and specifications for the adult education
component due to a lack of expertise in this area. The project was completed just over two years
behind schedule due partly to scarcity of counterpart funds and shortage of experienced
implementation staff in adult education.
2.6         The fifth education project (Cr. 913-TH) continued support for expanding
educational opportunities in rural areas and for strengthening management of the education
system and public administration in general. The project provided for the establishment of 12
centralized vocational workshops to serve local secondary schools, the upgrading of vocational
programs in 42 rural secondary schools, expansion of educational radio programs and the
creation of inservice management training institutes for educational administrators and civil
servants. The project was implemented successfully and closed on schedule. The PPAR for the
project (Report No. 7284, June 17, 1988) concluded that a strong CPU served successfully as a
coordinator and resource center for the individual implementing agencies. In general the
quantitative targets of the project were met. However, lack of thorough analysis of the catchment
areas for the centralized vocational workshops led to underutilization of some centers. The
overseas fellowship program was generally successful but there were some initial problems with
the language competence of fellows and some instances of fellows not being retained in the
positions for which they had been trained.
2.7         The sixth education project (Ln. 2178-TH) aimed to extend support for increasing
educational opportunities in disadvantaged areas to the lower secondary level and to strengthen
education planning and management. The project financed the upgrading of 480 rural lower
secondary schools through the addition of classrooms and workshops and the inservice training
of about 6,000 teaching and non-teaching staff.  Technical assistance was provided for
fellowships and experts in the fields of education planning and management. A program of eight
studies covering key educational issues was also included in the project. The project was
completed on schedule but over-estimation of project costs led to the cancellation of about 42%
of the loan amount. The PCR for the project (Report No. 8363, February 12, 1990) concluded
that while the physical aspects of the project were implemented successfully, educational
objectives were not fully achieved. Enrollments in project schools at project completion were
34% below target due to overly optimistic enrollment projections at appraisal and to other factors
such as high tuition and opportunity costs for students. Transition rates to lower secondary
education also declined. The local inservice training program was generally successful but there
were problems in the overseas fellowship component regarding deficient language competencies
and inadequate academic standards for entry to overseas institutions.  The planning and
management component was the least successful because it required significant organizational
and policy changes which could not be achieved within the scope of a single project but required
a sustained high-level policy dialogue between the Bank and Government. The program of



16
studies would have benefited from a synthesis of their findings and the translation of these into
an action plan.
2.8         The seventh and eighth education projects were approved by the Executive
Directors in June 1996. The Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project (Ln. 4052-TH)
aims to strengthen teacher education in science and mathematics through raising the
qualifications of teacher educators in selected teacher colleges, modernizing laboratories and
workshops, strengthening inservice training of science and math teachers and improving the
research capacities of the teacher colleges. The Technical Education Project (Ln. 4053-TH) aims
to strengthen the training of craftsmen and technicians through improvements to curricula,
instructional materials and linkages to industry, modernizing workshops, reinforcing the practical
skills of teaching staff and improving the management of training institutions.
B. Lessons Learned
2.9         Projects assisting technical and secondary education, approved by the Board in
June 1996, are too recent to provide operational lessons. However, experience under previous
education projects in Thailand, although implemented mainly in the seventies and early eighties,
are still relevant to the proposed project. For example, overseas training programs need to be
carefully planned especially in relation to the language capabilities of candidates and their ability
gain entry to overseas institutions. Careful consideration should also be given to the structure of
training programs in relation to the needs for skill acquisition, especially in relation to the mix of
available options - formal courses, hands-on experience, seminars, etc. A well-staffed central
project implementation unit with appropriate links to participating institutions is essential to
ensure successful project implementation. Relevant lessons drawn from Bankwide experience
include: (a) the importance of involving end-users in the preparation of equipment lists to ensure
their relevance to users' needs; (b) the impact of overseas training projects is measured most
appropriately by the number of trainees returning to their posts rather than the number sent
abroad; and (c) the need for counterparts to work with expert advisers to ensure that local staff
gain from inservice training opportunities. The above lessons have been incorporated in project
design.
C. Bank's Assistance Strategy
2.10             The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Thailand (Report No.
1 3458-TH), which was presented to the Board on September 22, 1994, recognizes that Thailand
needs selective policy and technical advice and financing. Hence, Bank assistance aims at
providing value added in terms of helping to address the most important development issues,
many of which are cross-sectoral and involve the provision of public goods. These key
development priorities, on which Bank assistance would be focused, are: physical infrastructure
provision, human resource development, poverty reduction and improvement in income
distribution, and natural resource and environmental management. The CAS envisaged a lending



17
program of around US$300 million per year during FY96-98 in these priority areas. It was also
indicated in the CAS that strong interest on the part of the Government in priority areas such as
the social sectors could lead to increased lending. With respect to education, this interest has
been declared by the Government through communications with the Bank, in public
pronouncements and through high priority being given to education in the Eighth Plan.
Consequently, a number of projects were identified which focused on sector priorities in
education.
2.11        The proposed project would assist in human resource development. Thailand's
economic success has been built on the expansion of manufactured exports, facilitated by
substantial foreign direct investment. This export-led growth strategy is now under pressure due
to rising real wages, and skill shortages, coupled with economic liberalization in labor-abundant
economies such as China, Vietnam and India. A key determinant of Thailand's continued
economic success, therefore, will be its ability to upgrade products and processes towards greater
technological sophistication. Whether this can be achieved quickly depends critically upon the
availability of skilled and educated labor. However, past under-investment in secondary, higher
and technical education, together with sectoral policy and institutional weaknesses, have meant
that labor quality constraints have become increasingly serious.
Education Lending Strategy
2.12        In recent years, post-primary education in Thailand has been unable to meet the
demands of a rapidly expanding economy for technical skills and for workers with a sound
general education. This has retarded productivity growth while skill shortages have pushed up
wages thereby putting pressure on the country's competitiveness.  The Government has
responded with policies that call for the expansion of technical and scientific education to
increase the supply of skills at all levels and also for the expansion of general secondary
education to increase the education level of entrants to the workforce and to expand the numbers
of potential entrants to higher education. A key concern underlying this expansion is the need to
maintain (and preferably improve) the quality of education in the face of rapidly expanding
enrollments.
2.13        Prior to restarting lending in 1996 (para. 2.8), the Bank made its last loan for
education to Thailand in 1982 in support of developing lower secondary education (para. 2.7).
This was followed by a Government policy of not seeking Bank financing in the social sectors.
In 1990-91 the Bank prepared an in-depth review of vocational education and a review of key
issues in education.  These reviews were well-received in Thailand but did not lead to any
discernible action to implement the policy recommendations contained therein. However in
1993, recognizing the growing inadequacies in the education system, the Government asked the
Bank to look at the possibilities of restarting lending to education.
2.14        The education lending strategy is based on the assumption that if the Bank is to
make a meaningful impact on sector development, it must be engaged for the long term. In line



18
with the CAS, this means that the Bank must be in a position to offer policy advice and, to be
realistic, it must be combined with lending operations if the Bank is to have a significant impact
on policy improvements.  Our lending strategy will follow three stages. The first stage,
currently being implemented, covers the design of initial lending operations and constitutes the
Bank's re-entry into the sector. The initial round comprises five projects which aim to assist in
raising the quality of vocational and technical education, supporting the expansion and quality
improvement of secondary education in three strategic subjects - science, mathematics and
English and, under the proposed project, strengthening undergraduate science and engineering
programs in selected public universities. Such assistance would contribute to the production of
better-trained skilled workers, technicians, engineers and scientists, and better-educated outputs
from the secondary schools. This would address, directly, one of the critical development
problems in Thailand, namely, the severe shortages of technically skilled and educated
manpower.  Thus, proposed initial Bank assistance is fully consistent with Thailand's
development priorities and with the Bank's assistance strategy.
2.15         The second stage calls for the preparation of a policy-oriented sector study to be
completed by the Bank in FY97.  A number of sound education policies relating to system
expansion and quality improvement are currently being implemented and the five initial projects
would support these policies. These ongoing policies provide an adequate framework for the
effective implementation of the projects and for the sustainability of their outcomes.  With
respect to university science and engineering education, current policies (paras.1.33-1.37) call for
the expansion of enrollments in these fields to alleviate the shortage of scientists and engineers.
This would be accompanied by quality improvement measures to upgrade academic staff,
strengthen management and planning within faculties, expand the range of teaching programs
and upgrade teaching facilities. The design of the proposed project (paras. 3.5-3.9) is clearly
consistent with these policies.
2.16        However, in addition to current policies which are pursuing expansion and quality
improvement, there are a number of more complex policy issues which, administratively and
politically, are proving difficult to resolve. This difficulty is reflected in the fact that the issues
are well-known and regularly debated, but reaching a consensus aimed at their resolution has
eluded policy-makers to date.  The issues include: (a) University autonomy; diminishing
bureaucratic control accompanied by greater autonomy of institutional management and
academic freedom are desirable in a maturing higher education system such as Thailand's. A
measure of autonomy was granted to two new universities and it was planned to extend this to
other institutions, but progress has been delayed by the political process. (b) Cost recovery;
subsidy levels in public secondary schools and universities are high and benefit higher income
groups disproportionately. This needs to be redressed. (c) Role of the private sector; in order to
augment long-term resource flows to the education sector, the private sector must play a larger
role. This introduces a number of issues relating to incentives, high cost of entry, maintenance
of standards, overall level of regulation, etc. (d) Teacher retention; the rapidly expanding
private sector is attracting a significant number of teachers, especially those with technical and
scientific training. The magnitude of the problem needs to be defined, incentives for retention



19
introduced and a long-term strategy for teacher development formulated. The proposed sector
study, currently under preparation, is analyzing these (and other) issues and will propose
appropriate solutions."4
2.17        The sector study would form the basis of a policy dialogue with the Government,
which would be monitored during implementation of the ongoing projects. Recommendations
aimed at addressing major problems would be defined and set out in an education sector strategy.
This strategy would be prepared by the Government and would guide future improvements in
education. It would also serve to guide the policy content of future projects. Thus, the third
stage of Bank lending would encompass follow-up projects which would include policy content
drawn from the Government's sector strategy. It is expected that follow-up projects would
continue to support quality improvement in science and technical education. The unmet needs
are substantial and continued concentration of effort by the Bank would ensure that a meaningful
impact would be made in these areas. Project design would emphasize monitoring and
evaluation of policy improvements.
2.18        The Bank's strategy aims for long-term involvement in the education sector.
Through continued policy dialogue and carefully targeted lending operations, the Government
and the Bank would work towards a cost-effective, well-managed education system which would
meet the skill needs of an expanding economy and service the broader needs of a rapidly
modernizing society.  The initial projects are providing a way for the Bank to re-enter the
education sector and to address quickly some obvious needs for quality improvement within the
context of the existing policy framework. This would be accompanied by a policy dialogue,
based on sector work, which would analyze major problems and propose solutions.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
3.1         In late 1993, the Government requested the Bank to examine the possibility of
project assistance to education. In conjunction with the Government, the Bank identified a
project which would assist in strengthening the quality of science and engineering education in
public universities Most of the preparation work was completed by the Government according to
guidelines formulated by the Bank. Project preparation was completed in November 1994 and
the project was appraised in May 1995. Project processing was delayed following elections in
July 1995 and the installation of a new Government. Further delay was caused by uncertainties,
now resolved, regarding the provision of technical assistance.
14    The sector study will: (a) define the broad objectives of the education system; (b) review education policies
and assess their effectiveness in achieving sector objectives; (c) analyze policy problems; (d) make policy
recommendations for major improvements in the education system; and (e) formulate a strategy for implementing
these recommendations.



20
B. Project Background and Rationale
3.2          The education sector in Thailand is relatively well-endowed with resources,
education expenditures accounting for about 3.6% of GNP compared with the average for East Asia
of around 3%. Thus the Government has requested the Bank's assistance not primarily for the
resource transfer itself, but to ensure that priority needs are addressed through the efficient targeting
of resources and that value added is providedthroughprojectassistance. The proposed project is a
response to the request for assistance. There is widespread recognition in Thailand that the country
is facing a human resource constraint which must be addressed if high levels of economic growth
are to be sustained.'5 To maintain the present momentum in its development, Thailand must also
move up the technology chain to higher value added products as it loses its comparative advantage
in low-technology production. A key factor in this movement will be the ability of the universities
to produce well-trained engineers and scientists capable of handling the increasingly complex
production technologies necessary for the advancement of the industrial sector.'6 Current shortages
of scientists and engineers are being addressed through expanding enrollments in the universities
(para. 1.35). However, in a period of expansion, addressing problems of quality becomes
particularly important. The project provides the opportunity for the Bank to contribute to
improving the quality of science and engineering education in the 21 public universities.17 This
would result in the production of scientists and engineers who are better trained to handle rapidly
changing technologies in the productive sectors and this, in turn, would contribute to strengthening
the science and technology infrastructure which is vital to sustaining Thailand's long-term objective
of promoting technology-intensiveindustrialization.
3.3          The project is consistent with the Government's priority for developing technical
and scientific skills and with its plans for expanding and improving the quality of science and
engineering education (paras. 1.34-1.37). The project is also consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy (paras. 2.10-2.11) which identifies human resource development as one of the
key priorities. Regarding the latter, the CAS emphasizes the need to develop the capabilities of the
universities to provide quality science and engineering education. This is essential to providing the
human resource base for long-term technology-intensive industrialization. The project is also
consistent with the Bank's education lending strategy in Thailand (paras. 2.12-2.18). This calls for
the development of initial lending operations to make an early contribution in the crucial area of
quality improvement while leaving major policy changes to be identified in policy-oriented sector
work (scheduled for completion in FY97) and incorporated by the Government in an education
strategy (para. 2.17). This strategy would guide future improvements in education and also serve
as a guide to the policy content of future projects. The value added embodied in the proposed
Is "S&T Manpower for Industries and Services: Demand and Supply projections", in Educational Options for the
FutureofThailand Vol. 11, The 1991 Year-EndConference,ThailandDevelopmentResearch Institute(Dec. 1991).
Ministry of University Affairs Long Term Plan for Higher Education (1990-2004).
17 The project would be complemented by a proposed Asian Development Bank project to assist undergraduate
science and engineering programs in private universities and graduate programs in selected public universities.



21
project lies, in part, in addressing immediate investment needs in the public universities thereby
helping to alleviate the backlog of investments in quality improvement in the strategic fields of
science and engineering. There is also value added in the Bank, working in partnership with MUA
and the universities, applying its rigorous project preparation techniques to identifying quality-
improving investments and in packaging them into a coherent project design, which can be
implemented efficiently.  Finally, value would be added through the Bank's assistance in
identifying needed policy changes and in supporting their implementation.
C. Project Objectives
3.4         The overall objective of the proposed project would be to improve the quality of
undergraduate science and engineering programs. Specifically, the project would aim to: (a)
strengthen the teaching capabilities of faculty; (b) upgrade the content of existing programs in
science and engineering and broaden the range of programs relevant to Thailand's technological
advancement; (c) modernize laboratories and strengthen their management; and (d) improve the
utilization of resources in faculties of engineering and science and establish a system for the large-
scale procurement of equipment.
D. Project Description
3.5         The project would support quality improvement in 21 public universities through
financing an institutional development program (baseline cost, US$16.4 million). This would
include; (a) short-term overseas training for selected academic and technical support staff in the
educational use and maintenance of the project-financed equipment (US$2.4 million); and (b)
technical assistance and academic support services (US$14 million), which would be financed by
the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), and provide consultant services to
evaluate existing programs and recommend new ones, improve the management of program
resources, develop effective procedures for the large-scale procurement of equipment and
strengthen project management. This component would also include the financing of small-scale
research projects which would extend the knowledge of academic staff relevant to improved
teaching and English language training for academic and technical staff selected for overseas
training. Teaching equipment (US$160 million) would be financed for undergraduate programs in
engineering (US$67 million) and science (US$93 million) together with installation costs estimated
at US$15.9 million. Incremental expenditures on equipment-related O&M and consumable
materials (US$50.6 million) and project management support (US$2.lmillion) would also be
included in the project.
Institutional Development Program
3.6         To strengthen the teaching capabilities of selected academic staff, overseas
training (US$2.4 million) would be provided to expose academic staff to the latest developments
in their fields of specialization, including the use of new equipment, and to new teaching
techniques. Training would be concentrated mainly on junior academic staff who carry the major



22
teaching load within the faculties. The program would also include selected laboratory personnel to
strengthen management, equipment operations and maintenance within the science and engineering
laboratories. Training visits would average three months for 264 trainees - 189 from the science
faculties and 75 from engineering. Procedures for selecting candidates for training are well-
established in the universities and these would be utilized under the project. Consultant services
(US$9.0 million) would be provided under the project and financed by AusAID. These would
assist in: identifying and developing new undergraduate programs in science and engineering and
improving existing ones; preparing ecuipment lists and specifications; strengthening
procurement capacities in the universities and MUA; providing technical support and training in
the operation and maintenance of procured equipment; and improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of planning and management in the faculties of science and engineering. Assistance
would also be provided for strengthening project management and implementation. AusAID
would finance English language training (US$1.5 million) for candidates selected for overseas
training and more generally to allow staff to keep abreast of overseas developments in their
specializations. Undergraduate teaching would be further strengthenedthrough the financing of a
research program (US$3.5 million) which would provide funds for teaching staff to undertake
research relevant to their teaching responsibilities. The AusAID program is summarized in Annex
4.
Equipment
3.7         The equipment to be procured under the project in support of improving the
quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs (US$160 million) would be
distributed to 21 science faculties (US$93 million) and 15 engineering faculties (US$67 million).
The equipment would comprise a mix of advanced and basic items. Procurement of science
equipment would focus on modernizing laboratories for teaching the basic sciences (physics,
chemistry, biology, earth sciences) and mathematics. The supply of equipment would also
provide for the development of new programs to be identified with the assistance of consultants
(para. 3.6). For the engineering faculties, the equipment would be allocated to three categories:
(a) engineering faculties with obsolete laboratory equipment (5 faculties); (b) engineering
faculties of KMITs with rapid enrollment growth (3 faculties); and (c) new engineering faculties
(three in established universities and four in new ones). Physical facilities, in which project
equipment would be located, currently exist or are under construction. New facilities would be
completed in time for the installation of project-financed equipment. Installation costs estimated
at US$13 million would be financed under the project. Preliminary equipment lists and outline
specifications have been prepared with the assistance of a British-financed consultant. AusAID-
financed procurement experts would assist in the preparation of final equipment lists and
specifications and in the packaging of items for procurement.
Equipment-related 0 & M
3.8         The project would finance US$50.6 million for equipment-related O&M. This
investment would help to ensure that the equipment items would receive adequate supplies of



23
consumable materials, spare parts, supplies and support services to ensure their effective
operation in the laboratories. It would also cover maintenance expenditures and the supply of
spare parts to keep the equipment in sound working order. Effective management of the supply
of consumables and equipment maintenance operations would be enhanced by the training of
laboratory personnel ( para. 3.6).
Project Management
3.9         The project would finance office facilities, including related equipment
(computers, fax machine, etc.), local consultants, support staff, temporary staff salaries and short-
term local and overseas training in management techniques for project implementation staff
(US$2.1 million).



24
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
4.1            The total cost of the project is estimated at US$261.5 million equivalent
(B6,537.6 million), including contingencies. The estimated cost by category of expenditure in
Table 4.1. Detailed costs and project expenditures are provided in Annex 5.
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
%   %
--------- Baht Million ------   -------- US$ Million ----  Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. IBRD
1. Investment Costs
a) Equipment                    800.0  3,200.0  4,000.0    32.0   128.0  160.0   80       69
b) Equipment Installation       254.1    142.9    397.0    10.2     5.7   15.9   36       7
c) Academic/ Technical Trng.      6.1     54.9     61.0     0.2     2.2    2.4   90        1
d) Project Management
Overseas Training            0.8      7.2       8.0     0.0     0.3    0.3   90       -
Local Training               1.8      0.2       2.0    0.1      0.0    0.1   10       -
Equipment                    1.0      4.0       5.0     0.0     0.2    0.2   80       -
Local Consultants           24.0      6.0     30.0      1.0     0.2    1.2   20       1
Subtotal Project Management       27.6      17.4     45.0     1.1     0.7    1.8   39       1
Total Investment Costs          1,087.8  3,415.2  4,503.0    43.5   136.6  180.1   76      78
11. Incremental Recurrent Costs
a) Equipment O&M             1,011.4   252.9  1,264.3    40.5    10.1   50.6   20        22
b) Salaries (Proj. Mngt.)        2.7        -      2.7    0.1        -    0.1    -       -
c) Travel Allowances             6.0        -      6.0     0.2       -    0.2    -       -
Total Recurrent Costs           1,020.2    252.9  1,273.0   40.8    10.1   50.9   20       22
Subtotal Baseline Costs for A   2,107.9  3,668.1  5,776.0    84.3   146.7  231.0   64    100
B. AusAID
a) Consultants                  22.4    201.6    224.0     0.9      8.1    9.0   90      64
b) English Language Training    19.2     19.2     38.4     0.8     0.8    1.5   50       11
c) Research Program             43.8     43.8     87.5     1.8      1.8    3.5   50      25
Subtotal Baseline Costs for B      85.4    264.6    349.9     3.5    10.7   14.0   76    100
Subtotal Baseline Costs for A&B   2,193.3  3,932.7  6,125.9    87.8   157.4  245.0   64    100
Contingencies
Price Contingencies for A     237.4    154.0    391.3      9.5     6.2   15.7   39       7
Price Contingencies for B       8.0      12.4     20.4     0.3     0.5    0.8   61       6
Total Project Costs a/          2,438.6  4,099.0  6,537.6    97.5   164.0  261.5   63    113
a! Excluding duties and taxes estimated at USI 1.2 million.



25
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2          Base costs are estimated at May 1996 prices. Estimates for the costs of equipment
and supplies/materials are based on current prices for similar imported or locally available items.
Costs for international and domestic consultants were calculated by AusAID and are consistent
with their cost estimates for appropriately qualified experts. Unit cost for overseas training for
academic staff and technicians is estimated at US$9,400 per trainee for short-term programs (3-
months).
4.3          Price contingencies of US$16.5 million (about 7%  of baseline costs) were
calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual
average price increase percentages: foreign cost, 2.3% in FY97 and thereafter and local cost,
4.5% p.a. throughout.
4.4          The foreign exchange component of US$164.0 million (representing 63% of total
project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the following foreign exchange percentages: (a)
equipment - 80%; (b) equipment installation - 36%; (c) equipment O&M - 20%; (d) in-country
training - 10% and local consultants - 20%; and (e) foreign consultants and overseas training -
90%.
B. Financing
4.5          The proposed loan of US$143.4 million, to be disbursed over five and a half
years, would finance 55% of total cost and about 87% of the foreign cost of the project. AusAID
is providing a grant of US$14 million equivalent to parallel finance technical assistance for the
major part of the institutional development program. AusAID has selected a contractor through
competitive bidding, acceptable to the Bank, to implement its component and a contract has been
signed. Extemnal assistance would finance about 60% of total project cost and the Government
would be responsible for the remaining 40% or US$104.1.
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
--------------------------- (US$ Million) --------------------
Category of Expenditure      Government  AusAID  IBRD          Total
Equipment                       24.2        -      143.4       167.6
Equipment Installation          17.0        -                   17.0
Equipment 0 & M                 57.3        -        -          57.3
Institutional Development
Consultants                    0.5       9.0       -          9.5
English Language Trng          0.1       1.5       -          1.6
Research Program               0.2       3.5       -          3.7
Academic and Technical Trng.   2.5        -        -          2.5
Project Management               2.3        -        -          2.3
Total                          104.1      14.0   143.4        261.5



26
C. Project Management and Implementation
4.6       The Ministry of University Affairs (Chart 2) would have overall responsibility for
project implementation.  A  Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), responsible for the
coordination and general oversight of project activities, has been established and will be chaired by
the Permanent Secretary, MUA. The membership and terms of reference of the PCC are shown in
Annex 6. Detailed implementation of the project would be the responsibility of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The Deputy Permanent Secretary, MUA, would be the Director of the
PIU and a Project Manager would be responsible for day-to-day implementation activities. The
Policy and Planning Bureau (PPB) would serve as the Secretariat of the PCC. The PIU would be
organized into four functional units (FUs) responsible respectively for: (1) equipment procurement;
(2) planning and management of overseas training and coordination of consultants, data collection
and analysis, and the monitoring of key performance indicators; (3) accounting, financial aspects
and disbursements; and (4) general administration. Key staff of the functional units have been
identified and at project start-up, it is estimated that there will be 14 staff members in place. The
establishment of the PIU and its staffing with key personnel satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness.
4.7       The organization of project management is shown in Chart 3. The universities would
interface with the functional units for specific tasks. Thus on procurement matters, the universities'
procurement units would work with FU1, on overseas training and consultants coordination the
faculty selection panel would work with FU2. Accounting and disbursements would be handled by
FU3 and the universities' general administration divisions would work with FU4. The Australian
technical assistance contractor would work with the faculties of science and engineering, in close
coordination with MUA, on such matters as academic advisory services, fellowships, etc. and with
the faculties and FUI on procurement matters. The contractor would also advise the PIU on
project management. The project implementation schedule is given in Annex 7.
Status of Project Preparation
4.8         The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation to
commence immediately after loan effectiveness. Participating universities have been identified
and equipment lists and specifications prepared. Project management authorities have been
identified and competent staff are available to handle implementation activities. Implementation
arrangements, including those for coordination between project institutions, have been agreed.
The technical assistance contractor has been selected.
D. Monitoring and Review
4.9         Due to the relative complexity of the project and the MUA's lack of recent
experience with Bank-funded projects, above-average supervision coefficients of about 15 staff
weeks per year would be required in the first 2-3 years of project implementation. The Bank



27
would supervise the project three times annually during the first 2-3 years of the project
implementation. It is expected that the remaining year would require two missions each year
with a third being scheduled only if necessary. The Government would provide status reports on
project implementation to supervision missions and submit an annual performance report to the
Bank by November 15 each year. The supervision missions would also monitor progress in
preparing the education sector policy study (paras. 2.14-2.15) and the policy dialogue between
the Bank and the Government, which would follow  from  the sector study.  Overall
implementation would be the responsibility of the task manager who would be assisted by a
procurement expert to handle equipment and an operations officer to oversee implementation of
the academic development program. The task manager would liaise with AusAID. The Resident
Mission. Bangkok would assist in project supervision. Annex 8 presents a Bank supervision plan
for the project.
4.10        Key performance indicators have been developed and were agreed during
negotiations. The indicators (Annex 9) would be utilized to monitor project performance and to
gain insight into project impact. They include the award of traineeships, course upgrading,
consultant recruitment and equipment supply. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
integrate the indicators into the overall monitoring system and use them systematically as part of
project supervision. The indicators may be modified and adjusted as implementation progresses.
During negotiations, the Government also provided assurances that, in conjunction with the
Bank, it would undertake an annual project implementation review, on the basis of the agreed
performance indicators, by January 15 in each year and carry out a mid-term review not later
than January 15. 2000.
E. Procurement 18
4.11        Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3. Equipment would be
grouped, to the greatest extent possible, in packages of US$200,000 or more (estimated value
US$143.5 million) for procurement under ICB utilizing standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank. Equipment packages in contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be
procured up to an aggregate limit of US$16.8 million through NCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank and the remaining amount (aggregate limit US$8.3 million) would be financed by the
Government following local procedures. Local equipment manufacturers would be extended a
margin of preference of 15% of the CIF price, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is the
lower, on bid evaluation under ICB. Candidates for overseas training would be selected in
accordance with local procedures and operations and maintenance costs on equipment, including
supply of consumable materials, would also be procured by the Government under local
procedures. Consultant services would be procured in accordance with AusAID procedures. The
prior review threshold for equipment contracts financed by the Bank, is US$7.5 million, in line
with the regional prior review guidelines for Thailand. No equipment contract is expected to
I8 The Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated January 1995 will apply to
all goods procured under this Project.



28
exceed the threshold amount, however the first three equipment contracts of each year of project
implementation would be reviewed by the Bank. Most of the equipment is expected to be
packaged in relatively large contracts and therefore it is estimated that about 80% of the value of
this procurement would be subject to prior review. About 10% of remaining contracts would be
subject to post review by supervision missions.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method            Total cost
--------------- (US$ million) ------------    including
Category of Expenditure      ICB       NCB    Other   NBF   contingencies
Equipment                    142.5     16.8       -      8.3       167.6
(142.5)    (0.9)            (0.0)     (143.4)
Equipment Installation         -         -        -     17.0       17.0
(0.0)      (0.0)
Equipment 0 & M                -         -        -     57.3       57.3
(0.0)      (0.0)
Consultants                    -         -        -      9.5        9.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
English Language Training      -         -        -      1.6        1.6
(0.0)      (0.0)
Research Program               -         -        -      3.7        3.7
(0.0)      (0.0)
Overseas Academic and                                   2.5        2.5
Technical Training                                    (0.0)      (0.0)
Project Management             -         -        -      2.3        2.3
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                        142.5     16.8       -     102.2      261.5
(142.5)    (0.9)            (0.0)     (143.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
NBF: Not Bank-financed
F. Disbursements
4.12           The proposed Bank loan of US$143.4 million would be disbursed on the basis of:
Equipment:
(a) Science         US$83.2 million       100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
(b) Engineering    US$60.2 million        factory costs); and 65% of local
expenditures for other equipment
items procured locally.



29
4.13        Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) certified
by the Ministry of University Affairs in respect of equipment contracts estimated to cost less than
US$7.5 million equivalent. Documentation would be retained by MUA and available for review
by the Bank during supervision missions. Administrative and accounting capability in MUA is
adequate to support the SOE procedure. Full documentation would be required by the Bank for
all contracts above US$7.5 million equivalent.  To the extent practicable, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 or more prior to submission to the
Bank for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the loan. In view of the satisfactory budgetary
procedures and financing of Bank-assisted projects in Thailand, it was agreed to accept the
Government's preference not to establish a special account. The proposed Bank loan would be
disbursed over a period of 5.5 years (Annex 10) which is one year less than the standard
disbursement profile for Thailand (all sectors). The shorter period is justified by the strong
management and implementation capacity built into the project, the extensive technical
assistance to be provided in support of project management and procurement activities and the
Government's commitment to complete the project in five years. The completion date of the
project would be June 30, 2002, the closing date December 31, 2002.
G. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
4.14        The Government would cause the project institutions to maintain project accounts
in accordance with sound accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that audited accounts, to be carried out by the Office of the Auditor General, would be
sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. Audit reports would include a
separate opinion for expenditures under SOE procedures. The Government would also cause
each project institution to submit an annual progress report to the Bank. Within six months of
the closing date, an Implementation Completion Report would be prepared by the Bank in
cooperation with the Government.
H. Environmental Impact
4.15        The project would have no adverse impact on the environment. It would make a
positive environmental contribution through the production of better-trained scientists and
engineers, some of whom would be employed in environmental fields.
I. Project Sustainability
4.16        In view of the high priority the Government has accorded to the strengthening of
S&T education, it is likely that the investments included under the project would be implemented
successfully and sustained in the longer term. The university system in Thailand is relatively well-
managed and adequately financed and this would reinforce the sustainability of project-financed
improvements in the participating universities. Furthermore, the Government has sought Bank
assistance on its own initiative because it values the Bank's ability to produce projects which are
soundly designed and properly focused on sectoral needs. This reinforces the view that the project



30
would be efficiently implemented and its benefits sustained in the long term. As noted previously
(paras. 2.15-2.16), the present education policy framework is adequate for the implementation of
the proposed project, although there are important longer-term policy problems to be addressed.
However, these problems would not adversely affect sustainability of the proposed project. They
will be addressed in the sector study and recommendations for their resolution will be implemented
in conjunction with future projects. The conclusions on sustainability are reinforced further by the
major emphasis being given to education in the Eighth Plan.
J. Economic and Institutional Analysis
4.17        The proposed project is linked to the labor market through its financing of quality
improvements in undergraduate science and engineering programs.    Thailand's rapid
development over the past two decades and especially the fast pace of industrialization has led to
significant shortages of engineers and scientists. This has led to high mobility and escalating
salaries. The Government's policies of expanding enrollments in science and engineering by
15% p.a. aim to overcome the shortages and their success will depend upon two crucial
achievements. First, the secondary schools must expand to supply the necessary inputs to the
university programs. This expansion is on target. Second, in a period of expansion special
attention needs to be given to maintaining, and preferably improving, quality.  Producing
increasing numbers of inadequately trained engineers and scientists will not benefit the country
in general and furthermore, will fail to sustain the large flows of foreign direct investment which
have fueled Thailand's industrialization. In turn this would retard Thailand's move up the
technology chain to higher value added technology intensive production. Thus the project's
focus on quality improvement will complement expansion plans in university science and
engineering programs.
4.18        The project is supporting the 21 public universities. The private university sector
plays an important role in Thailand and enrolls almost as many full-time students as the public
institutions. In recent years, enrollments in private universities have been growing more rapidly
than those in the public sector (paras. 1.4-1.5). The new loan fund for private universities (para.
1.36) will assist this expansion.
4.19          Raising the quality of university science and engineering programs requires a
combination of basic inputs - well-qualified teaching staff, well-equipped and managed
laboratories and well-balanced curricula. An extensive staff development program for graduate
study, mainly overseas, is being implemented by MUA (para. 1.24). The project complements
this program by providing selected teaching staff with practical training in the use of new
equipment and teaching techniques. Research funds are also being made available to staff to
conduct research relevant to their teaching responsibilities with a view to strengthening the
teaching function.  In the area of curriculum development, consultants are being financed to
review existing programs and recommend improvements, and also to identify new programs in
line with the needs of changing technology in the economy. Laboratories would be modernized
through the supply of up-to-date equipment and improved management and technical services.



31
4.20          Para. 4.16 indicated that project outcomes are likely to be sustained from the
general perspective of the priority being accorded to the development of science and technology
education. In addition, there is an element of financial sustainability to be considered in the form
of the incremental recurrent costs generated by the project. These relate mainly to expenditures
for equipment-related O&M and consumables. The annual recurrent cost burden generated by
the project when it is fully operational is estimated at US$11.6 million thus averaging about
US$0.5 million per institution. This amounts to less than 1% of the average annual budget
expenditures per institution.  These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulty.
4.21        Regarding institutional capacity to support the project, careful attention has been
given to the ability of MUA to implement the project in view of its lack of experience with Bank
operations.  A strong Project Coordinating Committee has been established, chaired by the
Deputy Permanent Secretary, MUA, to provide coordination and general oversight of project
activities. A well-staffed PIU would be responsible for detailed implementation and additional
specialist staff from MUA would be made available to the PIU if needed. In view of the large
amount of equipment to be procured under the project, special attention has been given to the
planning and management of procurement. Consultants financed by AusAID will assist in all
aspects of the procurement process including the introduction of relevant computer software. It
is intended that the consultants will assist in establishing a permanent procurement capacity
within MUA to handle large-scale procurement tasks in future projects. A detailed equipment
procurement plan is being prepared by the Australian technical assistance contractor.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1         Through improving the quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs,
the project would result in the supply of better-trained scientists and engineers to industry. This
would enhance industry's capacity to handle more advanced production technologies and in general
strengthen the movement towards more technology-intensive production. Faculty enrichment
through overseas training and the employment of visiting academic advisers, would enhance the
capacity of the faculties of science and engineering to keep abreast of the latest developments in
subject matter and also strengthen their ability to promote new programs in advanced fields. The
long-term result would be an enhanced capacity for Thailand to achieve technology-intensive
industrialization.
B. Risks
5.2            The main risk associated with the project concerns the implementation capacity
of MUA and the universities, which have joint responsibility for project implementation. Staff



32
have not had experience with Bank implementation procedures and special attention has therefore
been given to setting up and maintaining a strong project implementation capacity. In view of the
large number of participating institutions, emphasis has also been given to the overall coordination
of project activities. The risk would be mitigated further by the employment of project
management and procurement advisers under the technical assistance component, through the
allocation of additional resources to project supervision in the early years of implementationand by
means of the annual reviews of implementationperformance.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       The Government has agreed that:
(a) in conjunction with the Bank, the Government would undertake a review
of project progress by January 15 in each year based on agreed
performance indicators which had been integrated into the overall monitoring
system (para.4. 10).
(b) a mid-term review would be held a the end of the third year and would include
an overall assessment of implementation experience to date and also include
discussions on the structure of a possible follow-up project (para. 4. 10).
(c) audited accounts of the project, including a separate opinion for expenditures
under SOE procedures, would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year (para. 4.14).
6.2         The condition of effectiveness is that the PIU would be established and staffed
with key personnel satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.6).
6.3        Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable basis for a fixed
rate US dollar single currency Bank loan of US$143.4 million to Thailand for a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace.



33
ANNEX I
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Number and Proportion of Students in Public and Private Institutions,
by Level and Type of Education, 1994
Educational                            Teacher            Undergraduate  Graduate
Level/Type      General   Vocational  Training    Others     Degree      Degree      TotaJ
1/
Total              12,247,388    779,635    96,879   22,093        793,343    38,745  13,978,033
Public            10,469,148    415,386    96,879   22,093        674,802    35,646  11,713,954
Private            1,778,240    364,249         -        -        118,541     3,099   2,264,129
Public:Private         85:15      53:47     100:00   100:00          85:15     92:08       84:16
Preprimary          1,390,417                                                          1,390,417
Public              986,089                                                             986,089
Private             404,328                                                             404,328
Public:Private        71:29                                                               71:29
Primary            7,969,672                                                           7,969,672
Public            6,790,385                                                           6,790,385
Private            1,179,287                                                          1,179,287
Public:Private         85:15                                                               85:15
Lower Secondary    2,236,070                                                           2,236,070
Public            2,075,449                                                           2,075,449
Private             160,621                                                             160,621
Public:Private         93:07                                                               93:07
Upper Secondary      651,229    543,147                1,906                           1,196,282
Public              617,225    272,710               1,906                              891,841
Private              34,004    270,437                   -                              304,441
Public:Private         95:05      50:50              100:00                                75:25
Higher                          236,488     96,879   20,187        793,343    38,745   1,185,642
Public                         142,676     96,879   20,187        674,802    35,646     970,190
Private                         93,812          -        -        118,541     3,099     215,452
Public:Private                    60:40     100:00   100:00          85:15     92:08       82:18
Source: Policy and Planning Division, Office of Permanent Secretary MOE
1/ Number of enrolled students in institutions under the jurisdiction of Departnent of Teacher Education, Ministry
of Public Health, and the Ministry of Transport and Communication



THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN SCIENCE FACULTIES
INSTITUTIONS                             1989               1990               1991              1992               1993
New      Total    New      Total    New       Total    New       Total    New       Total
Chulalongkom University                                 468    1,291       460    1,413      466    1,505       456    1,550       541    1,662
Kasetsart University                                    353      976       312    1,003      294       981      317    1,042       314       984
Khon Kaen University                                    171      602       179      611       179      648      236       724      236       797
Chieng Mai University                                   376    1,047       337    1,113       389    1,241      371    1,342      1410    1,417
Thammasat University                                    230      709       227      887       235      798      276       868      323       968
Mahidol University                                       85      240       166      355       181      450       180      494       63       573
Ramkhamhaeng University                                6,648   27,348    7,229   33,861    6,658   23,437    5,943   21,848    5,725   22,660
Srinakharinwirot University                             266      662       262      768       251      903      255       922      280       932
Srinkharinwirot University - Mahasarakamn Campus         33       61        52       93        89      157       75       196       87       245
Srinkharinwirot University - Southem Campus              97       167       99      298        70      302        82      335       68       287
Silpakom University                                     168                183      535      225       644      240       743      204       770
Prince of Songkla University - Songkla                  211       577      242      652       244      740      314       895      248       935
Prince of Songkla University - Patani                    31        86       62      133        75      200       60       219       67       266
Maejo Institute of Agricultural Technology
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology - Lardkrabang    206      563       239      682      221       753      223       802      277       851
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology - Thonburi       146      480       162      548       131      504       185      584      216       635
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology - North          213      406       419      745      574    1,006       573    1,122       328    1,313
Bangkok
Naresuan University                                     118      285        99      291        89      338        76      356      226       470
Burapha University                                      103      345       163      436       147      494       161      522      189       594
Ubon Ratchathani University                                           _
Suranaree University of Technology
Total                                                 9,923   36,301   10,892   44,424   10,518   35,101    10,023   34,564    9,834   36,391         s



THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN ENGINEERING FACULTIES
INSTITUTIONS                      1989              1990                 1991                   1992                   1993
New    Total    New         Total      New        Total       New        Total       New        Total
Chulalongkom University                   588   2,140       704      2,313        687       2,450        721       2,576        718       2,731
Kasetsart University                      788    1,779      883      2,213        896       2,703        991       3,128       1,154      3,306
Khon Kaen University                      406    1,262      418       1,408       450       1,616        596       1,900        602       2,090
Chieng Mai University                      372    1,165     428       1,300       429       1,459        489       1,682        517       1,892
Thammasat University                                         94         94         152        239        231         454        285         844   s
Mahidol University                                           75         75          86        153        119         261        147         403
Srinakharinwirot University                                                                              142         142         96         361
Prince of Songkla University - Songkla     347     969      375       1,106       370       1,244        298       1,297        193       1,199
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology -  763    2,184    1,833      2,495       1,007      2,781        970       2,989        985       3,176
Lardkrabang
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology -  532    1,676      554      2,012        560        2034        600       2,094        585       2,185
Thonburi
King Mongkut's Institute of Technology -  739    1,640    1,027      2,123       1,072      2,530        994       2,734       1,131      2,915
North Bangkok
Naresuan University
Burapha University                                                                                                               51          51
Ubon Ratchathani University                37       62       35         93         44         137         83         186        150         289 |
Suranaree University of Technology                                                                                              583         583     X
Total                                    4,572   12,877   6,426      15,232      5,753     17,346       6,234        19,443    7,197     22,025  



36
ANNEX 2
(Page 3 of 3)
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
TOTAL GRADUATES (1988-1992)
1988          1989          1990           1991          1992          Total
Science         1,705         1,925          2,235         2,618          3,030         11,513
Engineering       2,313          2,521         2,797          3,129         3,661         14,421
Total          4,018         4,446          5,032         5,747          6,691         25,934



37
ANNEX 3
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
ACCREDITATION OF B. ENGINEERING DEGREE PROGRAMS
The accreditation practice has a basis similar to the US Accreditation Board for
Engineering and Technology , where the various engineering professional societies set
periodically the desired distribution of semester hour credits among the basic
sciences/mathematics, engineering sciences.
In Thailand, before a university opens an engineering undergraduate program, the
curriculum and study program proposed by the concerned department are submitted first to the
Committee of University Deans examine their implications on other departments and/or faculties
of the university and, subsequently, to the University Council for assessment of budgetary
implications and approval. The final documents are then presented both to the MUA and the
Ministry of the Interior. At the MUA the documents are scrutinized, guided by a number of
earlier decrees and regulations to ensure that the proposal meets the credentials required for a
university degree.
The Ministry of the Interior is vested with the authority to issue professional registration
that grants license to sign engineering contracts, undertake construction and operation of
projects, plants and equipment above defined capacities. Six engineering professions are listed
as requiring registration, these include: civil (including structural, sanitary and environmental),
mechanical  (including  automotive),  electrical  (including  power,  computer  and
telecommunications), industrial (including production), mining and chemical engineering. The
Ministry of Interior has delegated this responsibility to the Engineering Institute of Thailand as
the professional certification council. Each of the professional societies represented in the
Engineering Institute lay down the desired curriculum requirements and professional experience.
Consequently, the proposal from a university engineering department initiating an undergraduate
degree program is examined by the respective professional society, which may suggest
modifications if exemptions are to be granted to holders of that engineering degree program from
sitting at the examinations held by the professional society for grant of the professional
registration. This grant of exemption is eagerly sought, and nearly 70-80 percent of the
engineering curricula in the public universities are in match with the professional societies'
requirements, that are modified periodically to keep step with the changing state of the
profession.



38
ANNEX 4
(Page I of 13)
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
I. Planning and Management
1.          Planned development of Science and Engineering education institutions,
programs, management and staff resources.
The Government is supporting many developments and sets of inputs to improve
science and engineering education in Thailand universities. The project will work to enhance the
efficiency and effectiveness of planning and management. The work to be undertaken will
involve Australian advisory inputs and experiential workshops to identify problems, options and
possible directions for development.  Particular skills in management, such as program
budgeting, will be developed as required.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Advisory services on planning for institution, course and program development:
A long term Adviser (also Team Leader) will consult with MUA and university
staff, as requested, on planning, development and management of Science and
Engineering education programs in Thailand. The Adviser will be assisted by a
locally employed Academic and Research Liaison Officer. In addition short-term
Advisers will be provided to assist with particular problems or issues;
(b)   Annual workshop on development of Science and Engineering education in
Thailand: An annual workshop involving MUA officials, senior university staff,
Australian consultants and Australian and World Bank officials;
(c)   Workshops on management of resources in higher education institutions
concerned with Science and Engineering education: Workshops in
Australia will be provided for: (i) senior university staff and, separately, and (ii)
Deans of Science and Engineering. The workshops will enable these key
personnel to observe different financial and management systems and to
undertake on-ground experience in new approaches.



39
ANNEX 4
(Page 2 of 13)
Inputs
One long-term Adviser (48 person months), one Academic and Liaison Officer
(48 person months) and 4 short-term Advisers. Provision is made for the costs
of a major workshop each year on Science and Engineering education developments. There is
also provision for two sets of in-Australia workshops on planning and management.
2.          Planned development of Science and Engineering education facilities, equipment
and technical support services.
The project will involve the procurement of approximately US$160 million worth
of equipment for undergraduate Science and Engineering education. This will require the
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit in MUA. This will involve the development of
specifications to meet requirements of Thai university staff and of procurement procedures to
meet World Bank and Government requirements. The Australian inputs will contribute to the
development of these systems, procedures and staff. They will also contribute to the successful
completion of the procurement and establishment of the equipment. MUA is not presently
involved in procurement for universities, which handle such procurement themselves. However,
the nature of the Bank project, Bank and the Government procedures under this project mean that
a central procurement system will be established. Australian assistance can help development
and implementation of a workable system that maintains university autonomy.
The activities undertaken will include:
Technical support resources. The Procurement Adviser and short-term experts
will work with MUA staff in the Project Implementation unit of the World Bank
project to develop a procurement system which meets university specification of
requirements and World Bank and the Government procedures for tendering and
cost effectiveness. Some in-Australia study visits will be arranged for staff.
3.          Improved capabilities of technicians and technical support staff in Science and
Engineering. Technical support to operate and maintain equipment is a continuing problem.
Some technical staff positions are now available but personnel have limited prior training and
basically learn by trial and error on the job. This limits the effective use of equipment.



40
ANNEX 4
(Page 3 of 13)
The activities to be undertaken will include:
In-country training programs for technicians and technical support staff in Science
and Engineering. A series of training workshops will be designed and run for
technicians around the country. An English Language Training (ELT) person will
work with the technician trainer to improve the English language levels of
technical staff and assist the training activities.
Inputs
One long-term  Procurement Adviser (12 person months) and 3 short-term
Advisers. Provision is made for the costs of in-Australia short-term Fellowships on equipment
specification and procurement. There is provision for short-term technician training Advisers (8
person months) and locally employed English language staff (8 person months) to work with the
technician training Advisers. The costs of the training courses will be met by the Project.
II. Science Development
1.          Establishment of new Science degree programs at Thai universities.
There are currently 8 Faculties of Science developing new undergraduate Science
degrees (either as a new university, as a new Faculty of Science or as converting a Science
Education program into a full science degree prograrn). Australian activities with the Faculties
with new Science degree programs can focus on assisting curricula development, course and
program design, laboratory provision and management and staff development.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Advisory services on course and program development:  An Adviser and 4
Consultants will work with new Faculties of Science to define priority needs and
develop and implement work programs.  Expert visits will assist in the
development of new curricula;



41
ANNEX 4
(Page 4 of 13)
(b)   Advisory services on utilization of equipment and resources: Experts
visits will assist in the setting up of laboratory activities. Some
supplementary resources will be provided to assist these and other
activities;
(c)    Staff development in country and overseas:   Expert visits will assist in the
development of both academic and technical staff. Regular workshops on specific
topics will help update staff knowledge and skills in particular topics. Short study
visits to Australia will be used to provide training in specific areas of new
knowledge or skills, or to
provide knowledge of topics such as laboratory planning and management,
curriculum design and assessment procedures.
2.           Improve teaching and research in Science degree programs at established
universities: there are currently 13 Science Faculties with established degree programs which are
trying to upgrade the quality of their activities in a time of expanding enrollments. With these
Faculties, the emphasis will be on advising on priority development, use of resources, staff
development and initiating research.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)    Advisory services on course and program  development:  An Adviser and 2
Consultants will work with established Faculties of Science to define priority
needs and develop and implement work programs. Expert visits will assist in the
development of curricular;
(b)   Advisory services on utilization of equipment and resources: Expert visits will
assist in the setting up of laboratory programs. They will provide training in the
use and maintenance of equipment and in the planning of laboratory activities.
Some supplementary resources will be provided to assist these and other
activities;
(c)    Staff development in country and overseas:  Expert visits will assist in the
development of both academic and technical staff.   Regular workshops on
specific topics will help update staff knowledge and skills in particular topics.
Short study visits to Australia will be used to provide training in specific areas of
new knowledge or skills, or to provide knowledge of topics such as laboratory
planning and management, curriculum design and assessment procedures;



42
ANNEX4
(Page 5 of 13)
(d)    Visiting Professors from Australia:  Australian Visiting Professors will teach
course units and provide supervisory assistance to senior undergraduate and
graduate students.
(e)   Identification of potential collaborative research links: Consultant and Expert
visits will assist in identification of collaborative research links with Australian
researchers.
Inputs
One long-term Adviser (48 person months), four continuing consultants making
annual planning and review visits to particular institutions, Science expert visits, workshop visits
and supplementary resources. Provision is made for Short-term Fellowships to Australia for staff
to work on particular problems or to gain new knowledge and skills through attachments to
institutions.
III. Engineering Development
I .          Establishment of new Engineering programs at Thai universities with limited staff
resources. There are currently 3 Engineering Faculties with limited staff resources developing
new undergraduate Engineering degrees (either as a new university or as a new faculty of
Engineering). Australian activities will focus on assisting curricula development, course and
program design, laboratory provision and management and staff development.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)    An Adviser and Consultant will work with Faculties of Engineering to define
priority needs and develop and implement work programs. Expert visits will
assist in the development of courses.
(b)    Advisory services on utilization of equipment and resources: Expert visits will
assist in the setting up of laboratory programs. They will provide training in the
use and maintenance of equipment and in the planning of laboratory activities.
Some supplementary resources will be provided to assist these and other
activities.
(c)    Staff development in country and overseas:  Expert visits will assist in staff
development.  Regular workshops on specific topics will help update staff
knowledge and skills in particular topics. Study visits to Australia will be used to
expose staff to particular programs or course arrangements.



43
ANNEX 4
(Page 6 of 13)
2.           Establishment of other new Engineering programs at Thai universities.
There are currently 4 other Engineering Faculties developing new undergraduate
Engineering degrees as a new Faculty of Engineering. Australian activities with these Faculties
will focus on assisting curricula development, course and program design, laboratory provision
and management and staff development, along with provision for Visiting Professors to teach
some units and assist with postgraduate programs.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)    Advisory services on course and program  development:  An Adviser and 2
Consultants will work with Faculties of Engineering to define priority needs and
develop and implement work programs.  Expert visits will assist in the
development of courses.
(b)   Advisory services on utilization of equipment and resources: Expert visits will
assist in the setting up of laboratory programs. They will provide training in the
use and maintenance of equipment and in the planning of laboratory activities.
Some supplementary resources will be provided to assist these and other
activities.
(c)    Staff development in country and overseas:  Expert visits will assist in staff
development.  Regular workshops on specific topics will help update staff
knowledge and skills in particular topics. Study visits to Australia will be used to
expose staff to particular programs or course arrangements.
(d)   Visiting Professors from Australia:  Australian Visiting Professors will teach
course units to senior undergraduate and graduate students and assist in the
development of postgraduate programs.
(e)    Establishment of Joint Post-graduate programs. Provision will be made for Thai
post-graduate students to undertake work for a semester in Australia. Australian
academic staff will provide supervision of project theses and will visit the
students in country to provide supervisory advice.
3.           Improved teaching  and research in Engineering  programs at established
universities.



44
ANNEX 4
(Page 7 of 13)
programs which are trying to upgrade the quality of their activities in a time of expanding
enrollments. With these Faculties, the emphasis will be on advising on priority development, use
of resources, staff development and initiating postgraduate programs and research.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)    Advisory services on course and program  development:  An Adviser and 4
Consultants will work with Faculties of Engineering to define priority needs and
develop and implement work programs.  Expert visits will assist in the
development of courses.
(b)   Advisory services on utilization of equipment and resources: Expert visits will
assist in the setting up of laboratory programs. They will provide training in the
use and maintenance of equipment and in the planning of laboratory activities.
Some supplementary resources will be provided to assist these and other
activities.
(c)    Staff development in country and overseas:  Expert visits will assist in staff
development. Regular workshops on specific topics will help update staff
knowledge and skills in particular topics. Study visits to Australia will be used to
expose staff to particular programs or course arrangements.
(d)   Visiting Professors from Australia:  Australian Visiting Professors will teach
course units to senior undergraduate and graduate students and assist in the
development of postgraduate programs.
(e)    Establishment of Joint Postgraduate programs: Consultant and Expert visits will
assist in identification of and arrangements for joint Postgraduate programs.
provision will be made for Thai postgraduate students to undertake work for a
semester in Australia. Australian academic staff will provide joint supervision of
project theses and will visit the students in country to provide supervisory advice.
(f)   Identification of potential collaborative research links: Consultant and Expert
visits will assist in identification of collaborative research links.
The inputs for these activities will consist of one long-term Adviser (24 person months), four
continuing Consultants making annual planning and review visits to particular institutions,
Engineering expert visits, workshop visits, Visiting Professors and



45
ANNEX 4
(Page 8 of 13)
supplementary resources. Provision is made for Short-term Fellowships to Australia for staff to
work on particular problems or to gain new knowledge and skills through attachments to
institutions. Provision is made for semester visits to Australia by joint Thai postgraduate
students and for supervisory visits to Thailand.
IV. Collaborative Research
1.           Capabilities in formulating and presenting research proposals
The research culture is not well developed in Thai universities, particularly in
Engineering. The quality of both teaching and research suffers as a
result. Some key people suggest that because of a braindrain to the private sector and
commitments to more remunerative activities, the quantity and quality of research is actually
declining. The Government through the new Thailand Research Fund and through incentives to
industry is endeavoring to provide funds for research activities. However, motivation, interest
and experience need to be developed to fully utilize these new resources. Collaborative research
involving Thai and Australian academics are one way of developing an emphasis on research.
This can involve small research grants or large collaborative research projects. The first step is
to develop skills in defining research projects and in writing for project funding.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Workshops on proposal preparation and presentation, involving technical and
English language training: These workshops will be held to develop special skills
in identifying research problems and projects and in writing effective applications
for research support. Workshops may also cover research management issues.
Activities would involve both technical and English language development.
(b)   Seed funding for development of collaborative research projects: Funds will be
provided for exploratory visits and consultations between Thai and Australian
researchers on possible research collaboration. Consultants and the research
workshops will help identify potential collaborative projects and personnel.
2.           Completion of minor research projects for returned scholars or new staff: These
small studies will serve to encourage staff to develop research activities and enhance their
interest and skills in research. They will be aimed at building on the enthusiasm of newly
returned graduates from postgraduate training or other new staff. These studies will have
Australian involvement through contacts with Consultants and Experts.



46
ANNEX 4
(Page 9 of 13)
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)    Establishment of a framework and procedures for seeking and assessing proposals
for small research activities: In the first six months of the project consultations
will be held on development of the framework and system of administration.
(b)   Requests for submissions and selection of research proposals for small projects:
Consultants and the research workshops will generate proposals. These will be
assessed and funded in a system which will both administer the program and
provide experience for researchers in project administration.
(c)    Undertaking research projects funded as small research activities:  Research
activities will be completed with proper reporting and financial acquittal.
Researchers will be encouraged to seek publication in international referred
journals.
3.           Completion of major Australian Thai collaborative research and development
projects with significant results.
Major collaborative research projects will be funded for work on problems of
significance. It is intended that the projects will be of mutual interest and benefit to both Thai
and Australian researchers. The activities should provide a solid basis for future collaborative
activities under other programs.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Establishment of a framework and procedures for seeking and assessing proposals
for collaborative research projects: A draft set of Guidelines is provided in the
Annexes. In the first six months of the project consultations will be held on
development of the framework and system of administration.
(b)   Requests for submissions and selection of jointly submitted research
proposals: The draft guidelines set out procedures for requesting
submissions in standard formats Proposals are to be submitted jointly by
Thai and Australian researchers and their institutions. A Panel of



47
ANNEX 4
(Page 10 of 13)
researchers will assess proposals and select projects for funding. These will be
put to the Project Coordinating Committee for endorsement.
(c)   Collaborative research projects undertaken and completed:  Projects will be
funded and completed within the Guidelines and under the agreed administrative
procedure. Day to day activities, including travel, procurement and financial
administration will be devolved to the researchers and their institutions.
Researchers will be encouraged to seek publication in international referred
joumals.
Inputs
Expert inputs to workshops and the Selection Panels. Funds will be provided for
seed activities, small projects and collaborative research projects.
V. English Language Training for Science and Engineering
1.          Improved ESP teaching for Science and Engineering in Thai universities
Both staff and students in Science and Engineering require English language skills
to enable them to take opportunities for overseas contacts or scholarships and to keep up with
international developments in Science and Engineering. For staff, the opportunities may be in
Thailand or overseas. They may involve on-the-job staff development, upgrading of academic
qualifications or collaborative research. Many staff will seek scholarship training overseas, and
find limited English a major stumbling block in taking up such opportunities. the project can
provide support for early English language leaming and for predeparture English for staff who
will use their scholarships to go to Australia. ELT can also be integrated into other Science and
Engineering staff development components.
For students, there are already English language subjects in all undergraduate
Science and Engineering programs. Students need better English language skills to gain access
to the best access to the best employment opportunities or pursue further study. With better
focused ESP activities, the time spent on English language learning can be more productive.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Advisory services to Thai universities on course and program development for
courses in ESP for Science and Engineering staff and students.



48
ANNEX 4
(Page 11 of 13)
The Australian Adviser will provide professional ESP training needs
analysis, advice on integrated ESP teaching activities, facilitation and
coordination of all ELT activities in the project. A Thai counterpart will work
with the Adviser for a period and then continue to provide advice and
coordination in ELT activities.
(b)   Needs Analysis of ELT for working with Australian Science and Engineering
Experts: In the first year a series of workshops will be run for Science and
Engineering staff to identify skill gaps and increase their
language skills and awareness for working with Australian advisers and experts.
Other workshops will be held on specific skill areas in later years.
(c)   ESP workshops for EFL staff: ESP experts will come from Australia to run
workshops for ELT staff on specific topics, such as principles of ESP teaching,
ESP materials development, development of ESP self-access centers, delivering
IELTS Preparation courses and preparation for academic study in Australia.
(d)   Study visits to Australia for ELT staff: Study visits will be for specific purposes
such as observation of working self-access centers, observation of methods for use
of authentic texts and familiarization with requirements for academic study in
Australia.
2.           Development of Computer Assisted Language Learning module for Science and
Engineering.
Work will be undertaken to develop a Computer Assisted Language Learning
(CALL) module for Science and Engineering undergraduates. It is intended that this will be
available in self-access areas and will encourage student interest in and activities in English
language learning. The development work will be contracted to a Thai university, with
assistance and monitoring by an Australian CALL expert. The Project will provide training for
ELT staff in using the CALL module. Trials will be held, leading to modifications and revision.
The module will be distributed to all Thai universities. Copyright will remain with the
Australian government unless otherwise agreed.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Tender and assignment of the project: The contractor will work with Thai Staff to
draft specifications. The target user groups are second year



49
ANNEX 4
(Page 12 of 13)
Science and Engineering students. A tender will be called among Thai university
staff to develop this module.
(b)   Design and development of module: A CALL expert from Australia will assist in
specifications and in ensuring that the module is of high quality and is able to be
used throughout Thailand.
(c)   Pilot trailing of module in country: trails will be held using the module to refine
and revise the module.
(d)   Staff training to use modules: The project will provide training to ELT staff in the
use of the module at both the pilot and implementation stages.
3.          Increased IELTS scores of scholarship candidates
Difficulties in meeting English language test scores required by overseas
universities limit staff utilization of overseas scholarships. For staff interested in going to
Australia on their MUA scholarship, the Project will fund a number of scholarships for pre-
departure English language training rough ELCA to bring them up to acceptable levels of
English language. These courses should also include study skills and other preparatory activities.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   Scholarships for ELCA IELTS Preparation courses (on-site): Scholarships, who
wish to go to Australia, for English language skills development focused on EAP
and IELTS. Where there is a sufficient group of students, and it is an effective
solution, courses will be run by ELCA staff at a provincial center.
(b)   Scholarships for ELCA IELTS Preparation courses (in-Bangkok): Scholarships
will be provided for staff in line for scholarships, who wish to go to Australia, for
English language skills development focused on EAP and IELTS. Where a group
of participants is put together from different institutions, including Bangkok ones,
courses will be run by ELCA staff at ELCA in Bangkok.
Inputs
One 12 month Adviser and one (Thai national) ELT Coordinator. Expert visits
and the provision of workshops in country will be provided. The development



50
ANNEX 4
(Page 13 of 13)
sts of the CALL module development will be met. Scholarships to ELCA courses
11 also be provided.
VI. Project Management
1.          Effective management of the Project activities, finance and personnel
AusAID will recruit a Contractor to manage the Australian inputs to the project
and liaise with key Thai and Australian officials.
The activities undertaken will include:
(a)   The Contractor will manage and supervise Project activities.
(b)   Reporting and monitoring:  The Contractor will provide quarterly and other
reports as required. Progress reports will be considered at six monthly Project
Coordinating Committee meetings. The Contractor will work with Thai officials
to develop annual workplans for Australian financial years. These workplans are
to be submitted in March (for the following year).
(c)   Project Coordinating Committee meetings:  Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) meetings will review progress in the project, consider issues for project
operation and discuss future workplans for project activities.
(d)   Project Completion Report: The Australian Contractor will provide a Project
Completion Report in accord with AusAID guidelines at the end of the project.
Management resources will include visits by the Project Director and the costs of an Operations
Officer (Thai national) and a driver. Procurement costs will include one motor vehicle, office
equipment costs, computers and communications equipment. Costs of Australian management
and administration will include office support costs, international communications be met from
overhead allocations.



51
ANNEX 5
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year Including Contingencies
--------------- Baht Million ----------------  -------------- US$ Million -------------
1997    1998     1999    2000  2001   Total  1997  1998  1999 2000 2001 Total
A. IBRD
1. Investment Costs
a) Equipment               811.0  1,666.4  1,712.3       -     - 4,189.7  32.4  66.7  68.5      -    - 167.6
b) Equipment Installation   80.9    167.8    130.5   45.1      -  424.2   3.2   6.7   5.2   1.8      -  17.0
c) Academic/Technical Trng  21.8     22.3      13.0    6.3     -   63.4   0.9   0.9   0.5  0.3       -  2.5
d) Project Management
Overseas Training         2.7      2.8      2.8       -     -     8.3   0.1   0.1   0.1     -    -  0.3
Local Training            0.7      0.7      0.7       -     -     2.1   0.0   0.0   0.0      -    -  0.1
Local Consultants         6.3      6.6      6.9    7.1   6.2   33.1   0.3   0.3   0.3  0.3  0.2  1.3
Project Facilities        2.5      2.6        -       -     -     5.1   0.1   0.1      -    -    -  0.2
Subtotal Project Management   12.2     12.7     10.4    7.1   6.2   48.6   0.5   0.5   0.4  0.3  0.2  1.9
Total Investment Costs       925.9  1,869.2  1,866.2   58.5   6.2 4,725.9  37.0  74.8  74.6  2.4  0.2 189.0
11. Recurrent Costs
a) Equipment O&M            67.7    211.6    330.3  381.9 440.0  1,431.6   2.7   8.5  13.2  15.3  17.6  57.3
b) Salaries                  0.6      0.6      0.6    0.6   0.7    0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
c) TravelAllowances          1.2      1.3      1.3    1.4   1.5    6.7   0.0   0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.3
Total Recurrent Costs         69.5    213.5    332.2  383.9 442.2  1,438.6   2.7   8.6  13.3  15.4  17.7  57.7
Subtotal for A               995.4  2,082.7  2,198.4  442.4 448.4 6,164.5  39.7  83.4  87.9  17.8  17.9 246.7
B. AusAID
a) Consultants              56.7     58.1     59.6   61.1     -  235.6   2.3   2.3   2.4  2.4        -  9.4
b) English Language Tmg.     9.8     10.1     10.4   10.8     -   41.1   0.4   0.4   0.4  0.4        -   1.6
c) Research Program         22.3     23.0     23.8   24.5      -    93.6   0.9   0.9   1.0  1.0      -  3.7
Subtotal for B                88.8     91.2     93.8   96.4      -  370.3   3.6   3.6   3.8  3.8       - 14.8
Total Project Costs        1,084.2  2,173.9  2,292.2  538.8 448.4 6,534.8  43.3  87.0  91.7  21.6  17.9 261.5



52
ANNEX 6
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of the Project Coordinating Committee
The purpose for the establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
within the Ministry of Universities Affairs (MUA) is to assist MUA in the implementation of the
project. The PCC would be dissolved six months after the Closing Date (or the extended Closing
Date) of the loan.
The PCC would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MUA. Its secretary
would be the Director, Policy and Planning Bureau (PPB). The Secretariat of the PCC would be
the PPB. The PCC would consist of:
Representative of the National Economic and Social Development
Board;
Representative of the National Education Commission;
Representative of the Fiscal Policy Office;
Representative of the Budget Bureau;
Representative of the Attorney General's Office;
Director, General Administration Division;
Director, International Cooperation Division; and
Representatives of participating universities.
The Terms of Reference of the PCC would be to:
ensure that the project is implemented in line with national
economic, social development, education and fiscal policies;
approve the annual implementation budget prepared by the
MUA;
ensure that the implementation of the project legally conforms
with the Loan Agreement signed between the Government and
the Bank, and legally conforms with national laws and
regulations;
oversee the overall management of the project and assist in
resolving any major problems which may arise; and
serve as the linkage between MUA and participating
universities.



THAILAND
Universities Science and Engineering Project
1997      1     1998       1     1999      1     2000       1     2001             2002            2003             2004
ID    TaskName                                       102030401I02IQ3Q4lQ1Q2Q3Q401IQ20Q3104010IQ20Q3I040Q1IQ2lQ3Q4lQ1lQ2Q3I0401 23Q4
2    Negotiations
3    Board Presentation                                    *   2127
4    Loan Signing                                            *3/28
5    Effectiveness                                              *614
6    General Procurement Notice (GPN)                                714
7    New Project Startup Seminar
8    PIU Established and Staffed
1124:
9    Overseas Project Mgt Training
10    Local Project Mgt Training
11    Local Project Mgt Consultants
12
13 PROJECT COORDINATION
14    Australian Contractor/ Advisor                      l_l
15    Project Coordinating Committee                      031
16
17   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
18   Overseas Academic/Technical Training
19    Local Academic/ Technical Training                 .                                       _
20    English Language Training (AusAID)
21    Consultant Services (AusAID)                      I    -
22    Research Program (AusAID)                         l i        l
23
- -   -



THAILAND
Universities Science and Engineering Project
_  1997   1     1998      1     1999      1     2000             2001            2002             2003            2004
_1     _ TaSkName  Q1 02|Q3Q401Q0Q2103  |Q1Q Q2030401Q0Q20Q30Q4 Qi Q2 Q3lQ41Qi0Q20Q3lQ401 Q2Q3Q4010203Q4
24   EQUIPMENT AND INSIEUCTIONAL
25     MATERIALS INCLUDING O&M
26   Preparation of equipment lists and specs.
27   Preparation and approval of bidding docs.
32   Invitation for bids                                 .                     U           U .
37   Bid evaluation                                      *
42    Review and approval of recommended awards
47   Award of contracts
52   Delivery, installation and initial testing
53    Warranty Period
54
55   LOAN PROCESSING
56   Audit Report                                            O   .            O   .           O               O                O.
64   Project Completion                                                                                                                                6130
65   Project Closing                                     .                                                                                                     12V31
66   Project Completion Report (to be
.  :                                                                        _    {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~429
67    completed by AusAid Coordinator)
68   Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
W3
zb



55
ANNEX 8
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Mission Plan
TM  = Task Manager   PS = Procurement Specialist  00 = Operations Officer
Length
Timing               (in weeks)           Nature of Mission      Team Composition
Year 1 of Project
Month 1                   2                    Start-up             TM, PS, 00
Month 3                   2                  Supervision              TM, PS
Month 7                   2                  Supervision            TM, PS, 00
Month 12                   2                  Supervision              TM, PS
Year 2 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 7                   1                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 12                   2                  Supervision              TM, PS
Year 3 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 7                   1                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 12                   3               Mid-term Review           TM, PS,O0
Year 4 of Project
Month 3                   2                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 9                   2                  Supervision              TM, 00
Year 5 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 9                   1                  Supervision              TM, PS
Year 6 - Following
Project Completion
Month 3                   3                  ICR Mission            TM, PS, 00
9 Project year begins on Date of Effectiveness.



56
THAILAND                                                         ANNEX 9
Universities Science and Engineering Education Project
Key Performance Indicators
1998          1999          2000       2003      2004
Baseline   Intermediate  Mid-term    ICR           Full
Project Goal and Objectives            Key Performance Indicators              Year          Years         Year       Year  Impact
Major Goal: Improve the quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs
Objectives:
I. Strengthen the teaching         [.1  Selected teaching staff will be provided  25%            50%         Fulfilled:
capabilities of faculty              with short-term, specialized training                                  100%
to upgrade their teaching skills
and technical knowledge.
2. Upgrade the content of existing  2.1  Based on the figures for the            Number           ---           ---        10%    Fulfilled:
programs in science and              base-line year, the number of             courses                                increase   20%
engineering and broaden the range    science and engineering courses will     in 1997                                           increase
of programs relevant to Thailand's   be upgraded by an average of at least   (base-line
technological advancement            20% in the participating institutions.  indicator)
2.2  Throughout the life of the project,    US$1.4 mil    USSI.4 mil   USSI.4 mil Fulfilled:
AusAID will provide USS 7.7 million                                              Total of
to employ consultants to develop                                               US$7.7 mil
new undergraduate programs in
science and engineering and to
assist in the improvement of existing
programs.
3. Modernize laboratories and      3. I Equipment is provided according to an      25%           50%         Fulfilled:
strengthen their management          agreed upon schedule of implementation.     -             --           100%
.2  Construction and facilities modification is  ---         50%         Fulfilled:
completed according to an agreed upon      ---            ---          100%
schedule of implementation (already
under construction and financed outside
of the Loan).
'.3  Specialized training will be provided to  25%            50%        Fulfilled:
selected laboratory managers and           ---            --           100%
technical staff.
4. Improve the utilization of resources 4.1  By the end of the project, all required  ---         -             ---     Fulfilled:
in the faculties of engineering and  resources will be identified, specified
science and establish a system for   and procured, and the instructional
the large scale procurement of       programs will not be experiencing
equipment                            significant shortages in equipment,
supplies and instructional materials.
All equipment, supplies and materials
will also be inventoried.
4.2  As prescribed by the project design, all   ---           -              ----    Fulfilled:
laboratories will be fullv provided with the                                  100% supplied
necessary instructional supplies and
materials to support the curricula being
taught.



57
ANNEX 10
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal               (US$ million)                                   Disbursements
Year and                                            as % of               Profile (%)
Semester          Semester       Cumulative          Total            Thailand All Sectors
1998        1          10.0            10.0              7                      0
2          15.0            25.0             17                       3
1999        1          15.0            40.0             28                      6
2          20.0            60.0             42                      18
2000        1          25.0            85.0             59                      26
2          20.0           105.0             73                      38
2001        1          15.0           120.0             83                      54
2          15.0           135.0             94                      66
2002        1          6.0            141.0             98                      78
2           2.0           143.0             99                      86
2003        1           0.4            143.4            100                     94
2                                                                   98
2004        1                                                                   100
Completion Date: June 30, 2002
Closing Date:       December 31, 2002



58
ANNEX 11
THAILAND
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1   World Bank. July 1991. Decision and Change in Thailand: Three Studies in Support of
the Seventh Plan.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   Manpower for Industries and Services: Demand and Supply
Projections", in Educational Options for the Future of Thailand, Vol.11, The 1991 Year-
End Conference, Thailand Development Research Institute.
B-2   Ministry of University Affairs. September 1990. Long Term Plan for Higher Education
(1990-2004).
B-3 Setapanich,Nongram, Supapom Kohengkul and Kuakul Chang-jai. June 1991. Higher
Education in Thailand.
B-4   Wichit Srisa-an, AmornwichNakornthap and Porntip Kanjananiyot. March1993.
Govem-ment-UniversityRelationships: A Case Study of Thailand.
B-5   AusAID Mission Report. October 1994.
B-6   MUA Science and Engineering Staff DevelopmentPlan. July 1994.
B-7   MUA Project Proposal. January 1995.
C.   Selected Working Papers
C-1   Woo, J.C. 1994. Science Education in Thailand.
C-2   Desa, V. 1994. Engineering Education in Thailand.



The Structure of the National Education System
PRE-PRIMARY          PRIMARY EDUCATION                    SECONDARY EDUCATION               HIGHER EDUCATION                        GRADUATE
EDUCATION                                                                                   UNDERGRADUATE
Teacher Training
.                +1~-A   1  2 1 3 F4  1
Lowor              Upper                    I
Unliversity
Ficxiblo        1   | 2    | 3   |   4   |   5   | 6 |      1 |4   5   6  A.iI 3   IO2  | 1   2   3  -A-1    4   5   | 6
Vocallon/VTchnlcal
Fl1    2  _ 3 
Milialay/ Pollct3
* ENTRANCE EXAMINATION
O  CERTIFICATE                                                   *A:       .      -1   2|3|   
* DIPLOMA
*  DEGREE                                       Msic/Dramialic ArIs
l ;} H 4 ~1 51 2 r10 {3X}
Age   3-l             7 | 8 | 9   10  11  312            1 14 | 15           16  17  l| 19  20  21  22  23  24
sads/w504 1 9a



60
MINISTRY OF UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS:                                                      Chart 2
STRUCTURE
Minister                    Ministry of
of University Affairs         University Affairs
Steering Committee
Office of the
Secretary        ]
to the Minister
Permanent
Secretary
I    .  .    [                  ~~~~~~~~National
Senior Advisor 1Computer Softwvare
2 1            ~~~~Training Center
|      31    >          ~~~~Chulabhorn Research
4 1           ~~~~~Institute
Deputy Permanent
Secretary     1
2
Assistant Permnanent_
Secretary     1 I
Bureau of           Bureau of            Bureau of           Bureau of           Division of         Division of          Division of
Private Higher       Policy and        Higher Education     Administrative          General            Educational        International
Education           Planning             Standards         DevSystem           Administration         Services           Cooperation
Private Higher          Macro             Research &           Structure &          Records          Student Affairs       Intemational
Education           Planning           Development        Human Resource          Section           Promotion &          Cooperation
Institution          Branch               Branch            Management                              Development          Development
Development                                                                        Persnne |            Section              Section
Project            Academic                                 Section                                   estern
Analysis ||           e eStandard &  Human Resource                             Education           Hemisphere
Privateigher           Analysis            Curricula           T                                                           Hrainings &    GUinee
EducationBranch     Branch            Develo p ment          Section             Scion             Cooperation
Institution                     Bran                Section                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Program
Estahlishment        Research &            Center for               c                                  U                    Section
Education           Evaluation            Testing,                                                   Unive sity
Pmomotion Branch                            Research &         Administrative     Public Relations       Entrance             WStemn
Development          Systems             Section           Emination
General~~~~~~~~ |            reDsciliarch &                                                He|shr
Private Higher  ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       Rserc &Section                                              Cooperation
Overseeing and  Budget       HigherDevelopment                      Executive                                Program
Evaluation Branch       Analysis            Education
Branch      Documentation                               Section              Sports
GenGCenter         Personnel                                Section             General
Affairs      Information                               Registration                                                   Affairs
Branch   -   Processing             General            Information                              General              Section
Branch                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Section
-~~~~ ~ ~       Affairs              Brnc
Branch ~        ~         |      rac



61
THAILAND                                            Chart 3
UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Permanent Secretary
V Project Coordinating    1 .                                                Participating
K     Committee (PCC)                                                         Universities
, Deputy Perm. Secretary
Project Director
Policy and Planning
Bureau
Secretariat of PCC                   .
I   Project Implementation Unit
(PIU)
Director of PIU = Project Manager
A
Functional          Functional    Functional         Functional         Australian
Unit I            Unit II          Unit III         Unit IV           Contractor
Project planning anid
inanagement
Equipment           overseas training.  Accounting,     General          Project mgt.,
procurement          consultaiits   finance and     Administration    procurement and
coordination, data
collection, processing    disbursements            academic advisers,
and analysis, key                                   training visits,
performance indicators                                fellowships.
A
Participating
Universities
V
Faculties of Science
i  and Engineering
of the Universities
v
Procurement Unit              Selection Panel                 AmGeneral
Administration






I    CHINA
0      5,0    100    150    200 KILOMETERS       WAN AT
MYANMAR                                10 ~~~~~~~~~~~o         I~~~~~0       15TMItES              PD 
t~~~~~~.  t.J  6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAILAND>
m-- H-- S ~          ~             /   (                LAO PEOPLE'S                              7
Mo.Hoo9So?I1                                  t. .y..DEMOCRATIC                                AP  I, 
2REPUBLIC
~~~~~~~~~~j   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
tN   U                                                                    \,                      Is.~ d"
9  N  LI T  /       /      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALYI
(3-'-*
7' ;   R  E\ GI  6' N                     "                         Ud-Thoo,NohPoo>
~~~~  yr ~~~~~~~~~~~~Solo- Nol,o.
Kompho4g   Phoolot                           ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~NO0R  T H  EA   ST  MLooo
J .                                         1(6IoooKj              I                  VK
Ul.   6 ',E1/   /'.
kh- R.tc   ~ ~   P                   SosS.AoK, 
NCENiRAL    '                     NhIooo
NooloI,. b6 a
MYANMAR   )_1s-o.ssnh4oI,,p            ohoPi2           -          . I
ANDAMANk
SEA                  ',To?CAMBODIA
N   PhpKk ~
r                  ~~~~Gulf
/                     ~~~~~~~o f
Thaoiland
/    Cl-mg                                                                                                         lo-
S 0 U T,h                                    UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND
PlooToTo                          NoJ,h-oS,   ENGINEERING  EDUCATION  PROJECT
00(11                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES (5oIoIo2T)
0OK,bi                                                                 RIVERS
o1 kl0   PROVINCE HAOATR
Pbo0oIoo~~~~~~~~~~~             0~I   NATIONAL CAPITAL
00..                                                      PROVINCE BOUINDARIES
-                              ~~~~~~~~~~REGION ROUNDARIES
5(L)                   --- ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
~~6 -1  1,  A    .'                  '--.-
rTh. Word Book Grop                              MALAYSIOo 
m obo..odooin                              ITO                   No                                           104' 









IMAGING
Report No.: 16151     16151   TH
Type:       SAR



