Report No. PIC2554
Project Name                   Thailand-Universities Sci. & Eng.
Education
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     THPA4805
Borrower                       Government of Thailand
Implementing Agency            Ministry of University Affairs
328 Sri Ayutthaya Road, Bangkok
Permanent Secretary
Telephone No. 245-9053
Fax No. 245-8636
Date This PID Prepared         January 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      January 1994
Project Appraisal Date         May 1995
Projected Board Date           May 1996
Country and Sector Background
1.   Thailand has experienced rapid growth rates in recent years as
industrialization has accelerated accompanied by a strong export
performance. This success has been built largely on the expansion of
relatively low-technology, low-wage/skill production in such industries
as textiles and basic electronics and sustained by a steady flow of
direct foreign investment. However, Thailand's comparative advantage in
these industries is being eroded and to maintain growth prospects in the
long term, the country is moving into higher value added, more
technology-intensive production. However, this move is being retarded
by shortages of technical skills at all levels and by a relatively low
level of education in the workforce. While this broad-based human
resource problem must be addressed, the key leadership role in
Thailand's technological transformation will be played by the graduates
in science and engineering produced by the universities. Shortages of
scientists and engineers have been widely reported and international
indicators show that Thailand is not well-endowed with scientific and
technical (S&T) skills. S&T manpower is currently around 13 per 10,000
of labor force compared with Korea which had 37 per 10,000 in 1990. The
number of engineers per million of population is currently about 70
compared with nearly 660 per million in Korea in 1991.
2.   The Government has responded to the shortages by expanding the
outputs of scientists and engineers during the Seventh Plan (1991-96).
The output of science graduates is planned to increase from about 2,000
in 1992 to 5,000 in 1996 and the output of engineers from about 4,100 to
nearly 5,500 in the same period. This expansion will be achieved
through raising enrolents in science and engineering programs by 159
p.a. It is intended that the enrolent mix will favor science and
engineering to the extent that these fields will account for 50t of



total enrolents by 2000, compared with around 30t at present.    To
complement this expansion, attention will also be given to raising the
quality of education. A better qualified faculty is needed. Only about
24t of engineering faculty and 31- of science faculty have doctorates
(compared with nearly 80t of such faculty in Korea). The Government is
upgrading faculty through a substantial program of overseas fellowships
for graduate degrees (120 p.a.), and through a program of practical
training overseas to ensure that well-qualified faculty are exposed to
the latest trends in science and engineering teaching, relevant
research, modern teaching technologies, etc. The lack of up-to-date
equipment and weak management are widespread in the science and
engineering laboratories and this is lowering the quality of courses and
inhibiting research. A large-scale program for modernizing laboratory
equipment is in place (with a total cost of nearly US$600 million) and
a plan for strengthening laboratory management has also been drawn up.
Project Objectives
3.   The overall objective of the proposed project would be to improve
the quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs in 21
public universities. (see 1/) Specifically, the project would aim to:
(a) strengthen the teaching capacities of faculty; (b) upgrade the
content of existing programs in science and engineering and broaden the
range of programs relevant to Thailand's technological advancement; (c)
modernize laboratories and strengthen their management; and (d) improve
the utilization of resources in departments of engineering and science
and establish a system for the large-scale procurement of equipment.
Project Description
4.   The project would support quality improvement in 21 public
universities through financing an institutional development program
(baseline cost, US$14.4 million).    This would include; (a)   short-term
overseas training for selected academic and technical support staff in
the educational use and maintenance of the project-financed equipment
(US$2.4 million); and (b) technical assistance and academic support
services (US$12.0 million), which would be financed by the Australian
Agency for International Development (AusAID), and provide consultant
advisers to evaluate existing programs and recommend new ones, improve
the management of program resources, develop effective procedures for
the large-scale procurement of equipment and strengthen project
management. This component would also include the financing of small-
scale research projects which would extend the knowledge of academic
staff relevant to improved teaching and English language training for
academic and technical staff selected for overseas training. Teaching
equipment would be financed for undergraduate programs in engineering
(US$67.0 million) and science (US$93.0 million) together with
installation costs estimated at US$13.0 million.    Expenditures on
equipment-related O&M and consumable materials (US$41.5 million) and
project management support (US$2.1 million) would also be included in
the project.
Project Financing
5.   Project cost is estimated at about US$148.4 million with Bank
- 2 -



financing accounting for about 60- or US$247.3 million of project cost,
to be disbursed over five and a half years. AusAID will provide a grant
of US$12 million equivalent to finance the major part of the
institutional development component. Thus external assistance would
finance 65t of total project cost and the Government would be
responsible for the remaining 35t or US$86.9 million.
Project Implementation
6.   The Ministry of University Affairs would have overall
responsibility for project implementation. A Project Coordinating
Committee (PCC), responsible for the coordination and general oversight
of project activities, would be established in the Office of the
Permanent Secretary (OPS). Detailed implementation of the project would
be the responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The
Deputy Permanent Secretary (Policy and Planning) would be the Director
of the PIU and the Deputy Director would be the Director of the Policy
and Planning Bureau (PPB), who would manage day-to-day implementation
activities.   The PPB would serve as the Secretariat of the PCC.    The
PIU would be organized into three functional units responsible
respectively for: (a) equipment procurement under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and the coordination of equipment
procurement under other procedures, which would be the responsibility of
the participating universities; (b) management of overseas training and
coordination of consultants; and (c) data collection and analysis, and
the compilation of key performance indicators.     Key staff of the three
functional units have been identified. Additional staff would be drawn
from the PPB, as needed. The universities would interface with the
functional units for specific tasks such as specifications writing,
preparation of bidding documents, overseas training etc. The Australian
technical assistance contractor would deal directly with the faculties
of science and engineering on such matters as academic advisory
services, fellowships, etc. and with the faculties and the respective
functional unit on procurement matters. The constractor would also
advise the PIU on project management. Disbursements would be handled by
the Finance Section in the General Administration Division of MUA.
Project Sustainability
7.   In view of the high priority the Government has accorded to the
strengthening of S&T education, it is likely that the investments
included under the project would be implemented successfully and
sustained in the longer term. The university system in Thailand is
relatively well-managed and adequately financed and this would reinforce
the sustainability of project-financed improvements in the participating
universities. Furthermore, the Government has sought Bank assistance on
its own initiative because it values the Bank's ability to produce
projects which are soundly designed and properly focused on sectoral
needs. This reinforces the view that the project would be efficiently
implemented and its benefits sustained in the long term.     The
conclusions on sustainability are reinforced by the Government+s recent
pronouncements that education development will be the top priority in
the Eighth Plan.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
-3 -



8.   Some of the lessons learned from experience under previous
education projects, although implemented mainly in the seventies and
early eighties, remain relevant to the proposed project. For example,
overseas training programs need to be carefully planned especially in
relation to the language capabilities of candidates and their ability to
work effectively in an overseas institutional environment. Careful
consideration should also be given to the structure of training programs
in relation to the needs for skill acquisition, especially in relation
to the mix of available options - formal courses, hands-on experience,
seminars, etc. A well-staffed central project implementation unit with
appropriate links to participating institutions is essential to ensure
successful project implementation. Relevant lessons drawn from Bankwide
experience include: (a) the importance of involving end-users in the
preparation of equipment lists to ensure their relevance to users+
needs; (b) the impact of overseas training projects is measured most
appropriately by the number of trainees returning to their posts rather
than the number sent abroad; and (c) the need for counterparts to work
with expert advisers to ensure that local staff gain from inservice
training opportunities. The above lessons have been incorporated in
project design.
Environmental Aspects
9.   The project would have no adverse impact on the environment.    The
project would make a positive environmental contribution through the
production of better-trained scientists and engineers, some of whom
would be employed in environmental fields.
Program Objective Category
10.  The POC is: Human Resource Development - 100%.    The primary
objective of the project is to assist in strengthening undergraduate
science and engineering education. This would be achieved through
enhancing the teaching capacities of faculty, modernizing and improving
the management of laboratories, strengthening existing programs in
science and engineering and broadening the range of such programs.
Project Benefits
11. Through improving the quality of undergraduate science and
engineering programs, the project would result in the supply of better-
trained scientists and engineers to industry. This would enhance
industry's capacity to handle more advanced production technologies and
in general strengthen the movement towards more technology-intensive
production. Faculty enrichment through overseas training and the
employment of visiting academic advisers would enhance the capacity of
the faculties of science and engineering to keep abreast of the latest
development in subject matter and also strengthen their ability to
promote new programs in advanced fields. The long-term result would be
an enhanced capacity for Thailand to achieve technology-intensive
industrialization.
Project Risks
12. The major risk associated with the project concerns the capacity of
- 4 -



MUA to implement the project. Staff have not had experience in Bank
implementation procedures and special attention will be given to
designing a strong implementation unit. In view of the large number of
participating institutions, emphasis will also be given to the overall
coordination of project activities. The risk will also be mitigated by
the employment of project management and procurement advisers, through
the allocation of additional resources to project supervision in the
early years of implementation and by means of annual reviews of
implementation performance.
1/   The Government has asked the Asian Development Bank to design a
project to assist undergraduate science and engineering programs in
private universities and graduate programs in selected public
universities.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



