PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                              A World Frz of Poverty
InfoS'hop
Report No AB50
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name              SIERRA LEONE-Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit IIl
Region                    Africa Regional Office
Sector                    General public admilnistration sector (30%); Central government administration
(30%), Mining and other extractive (20%), Other industry (14%); Other social
services (6%)
Project ID                P078623
Supplemental Project                      =-
Borrower(s)               GOVERNMENTI OF SIERRA LEONE
Implementing Agency       MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address                   Address Secretariat Building, George Street, Freetown, Sierra Leone
Contact Person Mr J B Dauda
Tel 232-22-222211   Fax 232-22-228472     Email
Environment Category      U
Date PID Prepared         April 25, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date       April 17, 2003
Bank Approval Date        May 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Sierra Leone is emerging from the end of a brutal civil war that lasted for more than ten years and
left a trail of human tragedy and extensive destruction of the country's social and physical
infrastructure. The period since the Board of Executive Directors approved the Second
Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC II) for Sierra Leone (IDA Credit 3586-SL)
on December 13, 2001, has been marked by significant positive developments on many fronts.
Sierra Leone has continued to make progress in re-establishing peace and security, and
promoting social and economic security for its people. This has been complemented by its
efforts to promote transparent and inclusive governance. A devastating war has been brought to
a close; 71,000 combatants have been disarmed and demobilized; over 56,000 ex-combatants
have benefited from the social and economic re-insertion programs; virtually all 200,000
internally displaced persons and 100,000 former refugees have been resettled; the May 2002
general elections were declared free and fair; and the economy is recovering (GDP growth is
estimated to have topped 6 percent in 2002). In September 2002, the United Nations Security
Council agreed to a gradual, phased withdrawal of the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in
Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL), in line with the strengthening of the national security framework. In
the meantime, Sierra Leone has qualified for interim debt relief under the Enhanced HIPC
Initiative.



2
PID
2. Objectives
The proposed Third Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC III) is a
quick-disbursing credit in, the amount of US$30 million that will support selected aspects of
Sierra Leone's strategy of poverty reduction, founded on good governance and economic growth.
ERRC III will provide critical resources to finance activities associated with (i) consolidating
progress made in governance, including improved management of public resources and further
decentralization of govermment, empowering local agencies to manage the delivery of basic
services throughout the country; and (ii) stimulating economic growth by establishing an
enabling environment for private sector-led investment. The credit will allow the import of
essential commodities, including food products, petroleum products, and the raw materials and
intermediate goods required for economic reconstruction and rehabilitation of social and
economic infrastructure country-wide. The Credit complements similar support provided by the
AfDB, DFID, EU and the IMF.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's transitional support strategy, designed to
facilitate Sierra Leone's transition from peace-keeping to peace-building and relief to equitable
and sustainable development. Resources provided under the credit will support Government's
program of consolidating peace and national security, promoting good governance and
decentralization leading to improved service delivery, building human capital and accelerating
economic growth for poverty reduction. By helping to close the financing gap in the years
2003-2004, it will also contribute to maintaining macroeconomic stability and low inflation.
4. Description
In the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris in November 2002, the Government laid out an
updated agenda for poverty reduction and development, designed to support Sierra Leone's
transition from post-conflict reconstruction to poverty reduction through sustained economic
growth. It reinforces the Government's conumitment to its overarching goal of poverty reduction
through a participatory approach and a focus on monitorable outcomes. The ERRC III will
support the reforms proposed under this updated agenda. The credit is expected to be disbursed in
two tranches over a perriod of 18 months
Improving gover nance and service delivery. Two key areas of support have been identified: (i)
strengthening local government for service delivery; and (ii) strengthening public expenditure
management. Key measures on the former include the passage of the Local Government Act
before the December 2003 local election, defining roles and responsibilities at all levels of
govermnent, and capacity building. In this regard, the Bank will complement the support
provided by UNDP and I)FID through the Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project to
help the Government define and implement new inter-governmental relationships and build
capacity at both the local and central government level to successfully implement the
decentralization program over the next two years.
Public expenditure management focuses on strengthening the medium-term expenditure
framework (MTEF), extending and deepening financial management reforms and undertaking
procurement reforms to enhance the effectiveness of public funds.



3
PID
Reviving Economic Growith ERRC III will continue to support the Government's institutional
and policy reform agenda in the areas of macroeconomic stabilization and the creation of
conditions to allow a greater role of the private sector in jumpstarting the economy. Reforms
aimed at macroeconomic stabilization will focus on maintaining fiscal discipline.
The credit will continue to support the implementation of the Government's strategy (prepared in
2001) for the divestiture of PEs. In line with the strategy, the National Commission for
Privatization (NCP) will continue to act as a prudent shareholder, appoint independent boards of
directors, manage and prepare all public enterprises for divestiture or private management,
ensuring the efficient delivery of public services. Outside of actions on PEs, measures to support
private sector growth include: (i) formulating a transparent and competitive investment code,
consistent with a strong and predictable fiscal position; (ii) a study on the economic and fiscal
impact of Sierra Leone's adoption of CET and preparation of an action plan for the
implementation of the recommendations, consistent with the timetable for the establishment of
the West African Monetary Zone; (iii) implementing the Government's action plan for the
revival of the mining sector, especially focusing on the installation of a geological information
system (GIS) and global positioning system (GPS) based mining cadastre that will provide the
basis for effective administration and enforcement of mineral rights and initiation of pilot
extension services to improve the identification of best reserve areas, enhance mine planning and
processing activities, and assist on activities of reclamation and rehabilitation of mined out areas.
5. Financing
Total (USSm)
BORROWER                 $0 00
IBRD
IDA                      $30.00
Total Project Cost       $30 00
6. Implementation
The Government's reforrn effort, supported by the proposed ERRC III, will be managed under
the overall supervision of a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance. This
Committee is composed of key Ministers (including the Ministers of Development and Economic
Planning, Health, Education and Presidential Affairs) and the Governor of the Bank of Sierra
Leone. The SPP Technical Committee comprising high level staff from various line ministries
and the Bank of Sierra Leone will assist the Steering Committee and will be responsible for
monitoring the program, including policy indicators and coordinating the activities of all
Government agencies involved in program implementation. This Committee will be chaired by
the Financial Secretary. Periodically, the Committee will inform the Bank on implementation
progress. The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the Government in close coordination
with regular Bank and IMF missions to ensure continued implementation of the program within a
sound macroeconomic framework and a positive impact on poverty alleviation.



4
PID
7. Sustainability
The credit will make possible the financing of foreign exchange and budgetary costs associated
with extending peace and socio-political stability and economic rehabilitation and recovery
throughout the country. By supporting the decentralization of governnment and service delivery
mechanisms as well as strengthening public expenditure management, the program includes
elements to help reduce tensions and avoid recurrence of social unrest. Given the authorities'
commitment to a sound medium term economic framework, supported under the Fund's PRGF,
and its past track record of fiscal discipline in the face of huge expenditure demands mitigates the
risk of macroeconomic instability. Capacity building initiatives supported by several donors will
strengthen government's implementation capacity over the medium to long-term.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of ERRC III is influenced by the key lessons learnt from the successful
implementation of ERRC I and ERRC II. The first lesson related to the government ownership
of the reform program is also the basis for support under ERRC III. Government has expressed
strong commitment to the key elements of the reform program detailed below. Second, the
design of the operation has been kept simple, focusing on a few priority areas that are important
in the next 18 to 24 months. The tranche release conditions are limited in number, geared
towards building solid foundations for improving governance and economic revival. Third, past
experience with the public enterprise reform program has highlighted the need to be more vary of
the political dimensions of the reform program in addition to the need for capacity building. The
proposed credit is selective in the choice of conditions related to the public enterprise reform
program that are both critical and will demonstrate Government's commitment.
9. Environment Aspects (iincluding any public consultation)
Issues:
10. List of factual technical documents:
Program Document.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Preeti Arora
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 204133
Telephone 202 473-8275
Fax: 202 473-8136
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax   (202) 522-1500
Web http 1/ www worldbank org/infoshop



5
PID
Note: This is information -on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/25/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH                      - . FEEC8ACK__ dITE MAP_ ' | iH DE ASE



