                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                               Report No: 32837

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (IDA-37650)

                     ON A

                    CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                    TO THE

                SIERRA LEONE

                    FOR A

ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT III




                 July 12, 2005

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective 31 December, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
                                    US$ 1 = Le 2,860

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB        `      African Development Bank
AGD                Accountant General's Department
AGOA               African Growth and Opportunity Act
BSL                Bank of Sierra Leone
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CET                Common External Tariff
DfID/UK            Department for International Development/United Kingdom
ECOWAS             Economic Community of West African States
ERRC               Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
ERRG               Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Grant
EC                 European Commission
FMAS               Financial Management and Accounting System
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GRS                Governance Reform Secretariat
GOSL               Government of Sierra Leone
HIPC               Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IAD                Internal Audit Department
IDA                International Development Association
IDP                Internally Displaced Persons
IMF                International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP             Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IRCB               Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MMR                Ministry of Mineral Resources
MTEF               Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NaCSA              National Commission for Social Action
NCDDR              National Commission for Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
NCP                National Commission for Privatization
NGO                Non-Governmental Organizations
OAG                Office of the Auditor General
PE                 Public Enterprises
PETS               Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PRGF               Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
SPP                Strategic Planning and Action Process
TRC                Truth and Reconciliation Commission
TSS                Transitional Support Strategy
UNAMSIL            United Nations Military Mission Sierra Leone
UNDP               United Nations Development Program


                         Vice President:        Gobind T. Nankani
                      Country Director          Mats Karlsson
                        Sector Manager          Robert R. Blake
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Douglas Addison

                                       SIERRA LEONE
                      Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit III


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            25

Project ID: P078623                                                  Project Name: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery
                                                                     Credit III
Team Leader: Douglas M. Addison                                      TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 12, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit III L/C/TF Number: IDA-37650
   Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (45%); Mining and other
                            extractive (20%); Sub-national government administration (20%);
                            Other industry (15%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Decentralization (S); Regulation and competition policy (S); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Regional
                            integration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/2003                                     Effective:                           09/16/2003
     Appraisal: 04/17/2003                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/20/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Calisto Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:                 Robert R. Blake                                Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas Addison                                Preeti Arora
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath; Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Third Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC III) was a quick­disbursing credit in the
amount of US$30 million equivalent (SDR 22 million) that supported selected aspects of Sierra Leone's
post-conflict development agenda as presented in the I-PRSP and updated at the Consultative Group (CG)
meeting in Paris in November 2002. The credit provided critical resources to finance activities associated
with: (i) consolidating progress made in governance, including improved management of public resources
and further decentralization of government, empowering local agencies to manage the delivery of basic
services throughout the country; and (ii) stimulating economic growth           by establishing an enabling
environment for private sector-led investment. This included assistance for maintaining macroeconomic
stability, revising the investment code to make it more transparent and competitive to attract investors,
further liberalizing the trade regime, pursuing its divestiture strategy and implementing reforms in the
mining sector. The credit allowed the import of essential commodities, including food products, petroleum
products, and the raw materials and intermediate goods required for economic reconstruction. It was also
aimed to enable the Government to build and rehabilitate social and economic infrastructure country-wide.
The credit complemented similar support provided by African Development Bank (AfDB), Department for
International Development/United Kingdom (DfID/UK), European Commission (EC) and International
Monetary Fund (IMF). The credit was scheduled to be disbursed in two tranches over a period of 18
months.

The objectives were clear and relevant to the country's economic and social development. They were also
timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower, considering that Sierra Leone was emerging from the
end of a brutal civil war that had lasted for more than ten years and had left a legacy of human tragedy and
extensive destruction of the country's social and physical infrastructure. The credit was an integral part of
the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), designed to facilitate Sierra Leone's transition from
post-conflict reconstruction to sustainable poverty reduction. It was intended to help revive basic public
services and restore credible public sector functions by supporting mechanisms that ensure delivery of
services in key sectors in a transparent and accountable manner through better public expenditure
management.      It was expected to contribute to economic recovery and growth by providing foreign
exchange resources for imports of essential commodities, by providing financial resources to the
Government budget to finance priority public expenditures and by supporting reforms to attract private
investment. By closing the financing gap, it contributed to macroeconomic stability and growth over a two
year period.

The design of the operation was influenced by the key lessons learnt from the successful implementation of
ERRC I (ICR ratings:         Outcome=S, Sustainability=L) and ERRC II (ICR ratings:            Outcome=S,
Sustainability=L). One such lesson incorporated into the design of ERRC III, related to the government
ownership of the reform program: the Government had expressed strong upfront commitment to the key
elements of the reform program. Second, the design of the operation focused on only a few priority areas
that were important over 18 to 24 months. The tranche release conditions were limited in number, geared
towards building solid foundations for improving governance and economic revival.

The following five risk factors which could affect credit implementation were taken into account while
designing the credit:

   l A worsening of the governance environment, delays in providing basic social services and in
         re-launching economic activities in the newly re-settled areas could exacerbate poverty and



                                                     - 2 -

        possibly lead to social unrest. By supporting the decentralization of government and service
        delivery mechanisms as well as strengthening public expenditure management, the program
        included elements to help reduce tensions and avoid recurrence of social unrest.

   l Macroeconomic stability could prove difficult to maintain either due to failure to maintain fiscal
        discipline, delay in recovery of rutile mining or a shortfall in donor funding, thereby impeding
        the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy and to the early re-launching of the
        economy on a sustainable growth path. Government's commitment to a sound medium term
        economic framework, supported under the IMF's Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF), and
        its past track record of fiscal discipline in the face of huge expenditure demands would mitigate
        this risk.

   l Donor interest and support could drop off, as the country moves from being in a post-conflict
        phase to one which is more "normal". The commitments made by donors at the CG meeting held
        in Paris in November 2002 as well as the understandings reached on the need to move from
        humanitarian assistance to development assistance were expected to mitigate this risk.

   l Weak institutional capacity could cause delays in implementing some aspects of the
        rehabilitation and recovery program. This risk was to be mitigated in several ways: (i) the design
        of peace-building activities incorporated necessary institutional support; (ii) several on-going
        institutional capacity building initiatives across key functions of government were already
        underway with support from the DfID, EC, UNDP, AfDB, IMF and the Bank; and (iii) sustained
        peace would further enable institution building to be enhanced.

   l Conflict in neighboring Liberia and Cote d'Ivoire may spill over into Sierra Leone.              The
        extension of the mandate of United Nations Military Mission Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) by another
        six months, and the deployment of a better equipped, trained and disciplined army and police force
        could mitigate this risk.

Overall, the design requirements of the credit were not complex because the objective was to provide
general budget support. The credit was, however, fairly challenging to supervise because of the weak
capacity within most Government ministries.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The credit consisted of the following features:

A.      Improving Governance and Service Delivery. Building on the progress already made under
ERRC II, the Government planned to work further to minimize corruption and enhance effective service
delivery. Two key areas of support for this purpose were:

(i)     Strengthening local government for service delivery. This component consisted of formulating a
new Local Government Act with UNDP assistance and enacting it before the local elections expected for
December 2003.




                                                     - 3 -

(ii)     Strengthening public expenditure management. The credit aimed to build on the achievements
of ERRC II by supporting the deepening of reforms in public sector management. Some of the key
activities were deepening the medium-term expenditure framework process, public expenditure tracking
surveys, replacing flawed legislation concerning public budgeting and accounting and initiating public
procurement reform.

B.       Stimulating Economic Growth. The reform program supported under the credit focused on
private sector development in general, and on the development of the mining sector in particular due to its
strategic importance to exports and revenues.

(i)      Private Sector Development.      The main activity consisted of the Government redrafting the
investment code based on international best practice to enhance the competitiveness of all enterprises and to
create a level playing field while ensuring fiscal sustainability. This would ensure that all enterprises ­
domestic, foreign, new or old would benefit from and be subjected to the same laws and regulations. In
parallel, the Government was committed to extending the scope of trade liberalization in the context of its
West African regional trading arrangements. In partnership with the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS), it was expected to adjust external tariffs to the agreed ECOWAS common
external tariff (CET) levels. To this end, a study of the economic and fiscal impact of Sierra Leone's
adoption of the CET was scheduled to be undertaken in 2003.

(ii)     Mining Sector Development. ERRC III supported the Government's action plan, in collaboration
with other donors, on the following activities:

    l consolidating the laws and regulations governing the sub-sector;


    l installing a geological information system (GIS) and global positioning system (GPS) based mining
         cadastre that would provide the basis for effective administration and enforcement of mineral
         rights.

    l increasing the efficiency and openness of diamond trading by addressing bottlenecks in the banking
         system to provide immediate availability of foreign currency transferred for diamond exports and
         marketing operations and thus minimizing the recourse to the parallel market for obtaining foreign
         exchange.

    l initiating pilot extension services to improve the identification of best reserve areas, enhance mine
         planning and processing activities, and assist on activities of reclamation and rehabilitation of
         mined out areas.

    l initiating the establishment of equipment rental/lease arrangements for artisanal miners to fund
         their mining operations.

    l formulating and effectively implementing plans, including the Diamond Area Community
         Development Fund (DACDF) to use the proceeds from the sale of diamonds for community
         projects aimed at enhancing their welfare.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.




                                                   - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The credit's overall quality at entry received a "satisfactory" rating from the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). This was comprised of Highly Satisfactory ratings for Strategic Relevance and Approach and Risk
Assessment and Management, including Bank Inputs and Processes, and a Marginally Satisfactory rating
for the Fiduciary Aspects and Satisfactory ratings for all other rating categories.

QAG remarked that:

"On the basis of accomplishing prior actions and tranche conditionalities before funds are released, the
objectives of the credit were in complete alliance with government priorities. Given the nature of the
operation, and the post-conflict situation in the country, the credit engaged in substantial consultations and
solicited feedback from a variety of stakeholders. Key among these groups were discussions with
representatives of the 56,000 ex-combatants, and the 100,000 former refugees. All of these discussions
were done collaboratively with the UN Peace-keeping Mission, in line with the national security
framework.

To ensure that some sustainable mechanism is set up in case conflicts accelerate, a regulatory framework is
being set up, including governance reforms. The participatory approach is one arrangement introduced by
the credit that has the potential of minimizing any adverse social impacts cited above (e.g., addressing elite
capture issues and problems that may lead to resumption of conflicts).

The credit, which is aimed at achieving a quite limited, but strategically important set of reforms, should
not be viewed in isolation, either from what preceded it in earlier years, nor from what is being done in
parallel, by the Bank and by the other active donors, including the Fund. The credit is the critical element at
the center of this process of reform and stimulation. As one member of the Team put it, "it's the glue that
binds all efforts together, Bank, Government, and donors." To this extent, the full impact of ERRC III is
no doubt greater than the sum of its parts, because of the critical mass of the effort, the confidence building
aspect of the Bank's presence, and the strategic nature of the reforms that are being demanded as the
conditions of tranche release. Successful implementation of these reforms should indeed lead to improved
public sector performance as well as private sector growth. Taken overall, the operation strikes a sound
balance between macro-stabilization, institutional interventions to strengthen governance, support for
capacity building (alongside the IDA's IRCB credit currently being prepared) and selected stimulation of
the private sector, by regularizing title ownership and operating practices in the mining sector."

The ICR also deems the overall quality at entry to be satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the objectives of
the credit were developed in partnership with the Government, and were highly consistent with strategic
medium term goals. During preparation of the credit, major risk factors and lessons learned from ERRC - I
and II were considered and incorporated into the credit design.

With hindsight, however, it appears that there were some weaknesses in the Quality at Entry: (i) there were
difficulties in resolving the Investment Code issue that were not well anticipated in the credit design; (ii) the
proposed completion date for the reform program was ambitious in light of the generally low capacity of
the Government; and (iii) the credit design should have focused on ensuring that each conditionality was
supported by TA from the Bank and/or other donors. For example, had the mining cadastre received
adequate TA from the beginning, its implementation would have been faster.

It may also be noted that the credit design did not include a design for monitoring and evaluation along with
baseline data for the evaluation of progress. While a M&E design with a baseline might have been


                                                     - 5 -

desirable, the ability to assess the impact of the credit did not suffer from the lack of such: in most cases,
progress consisted simply of creating what never existed before in Sierra Leone's rapidly evolving
post-conflict situation. Examples include local government legislation, the investment code, enactment of a
new organic budget law, the divestiture strategy, the study on the common external tariff, the mining
cadastral system and the pilot mining extension services.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the outcome of the credit objectives was satisfactory. The major outcomes and achievements
of the credit are as follows:

The credit assisted the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) in moving from the transitional phase of peace
building to the medium-term phase of Sierra Leone's strategy of poverty reduction. It provided critical
resources to finance activities associated with the consolidation of progress made in governance and the
stimulation of economic growth by establishing an enabling environment for private sector-led investment.
Progress made in governance includes improved management of public resources, the first local
government elections in 32 years and the beginning of decentralization of government. Economic growth
has been stimulated by maintaining macroeconomic stability, revising the Investment Code to make it more
transparent and competitive to attract investors, preparing for further liberalizing the trade regime,
pursuing a divestiture strategy and implementing reforms in the mining sector. The credit has also allowed
the import of essential commodities, including food products, petroleum products, and the raw materials
and intermediate goods required for economic reconstruction and rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure country-wide.

Note: Annex 1 provides a summary of the Performance Indicators for key activities and outputs. An
assessment of program impact or outcomes is not included due to the short timeframe of the credit and the
lack of baseline data in the ERRC III Program Document.

Macroeconomic Performance:

The GOSL successfully completed six reviews under the PRGF, the most recent being June 1, 2005. Real
GDP growth in 2003 and 2004 was stronger than expected and substantial progress was made in the
implementation of structural measures.

Real sector developments. Sierra Leone's impressive economic performance continued into 2003 and 2004
when real GDP grew by an estimated 9.3 percent and 7.4 percent respectively, despite an oil price shock,
marking the fourth and fifth straight years of sustained economic recovery. This post-conflict recovery was
propelled by the dynamic growth of donor-financed imports, large-scale resettlement and reconstruction
activities, major increases in land under cultivation, increased investor confidence as well as growing
remittances, investments and tourism by the large Sierra Leone expatriate community, and broadly sounds
economic policies.

The current account deficit for 2004 increased only to 11.5 percent of GDP -- below the original projection
of 16.3 percent of GDP. This was due in part to continued strong export performance, mainly from
diamonds. Gross official reserves were the equivalent of 2.0 months of imports versus the target of 2.2
months of imports.



                                                      - 6 -

Fiscal and monetary performance in 2004, as reported in the PRGF reviews, was acceptable despite
external and internal shocks. The fiscal deficit fell to 20.2 percent of GDP in 2004 from 22.1 percent of
GDP in 2003. Domestic financing fell to -0.1 percent of GDP from 4.3 percent of GDP over the same time
period. As a consequence, monetary growth slowed to 18.9 percent in 2004 from 26.2 percent in 2003.

Consumer prices rose in 2004, due to a combination of external shocks, delays in aid disbursements and
incomplete fiscal adjustment. Petroleum prices rose in 2003 and rose again in 2004 to historic levels with
concurrent increases in rice prices.      These external price shocks, combined with delays in external
financing, put pressure on the exchange rate which depreciated to an average of 2,691 Le/US$ in 2004.
The estimated annual average inflation rate for 2004 was 14.2 percent versus a program target of 12.4
percent. Rising domestic prices also pushed up interest rates: the end-year treasury bill rate increased to
28 percent in November 2004 from 20.2 percent in December 2003.

The Government made good progress in carrying out the reform program described in the Letter of
Development Policy. Substantial progress was made relative to the situation at war's end in January 2002
with strong support from the donor community including AfDB, DfID, EC, IMF and the World Bank. The
Borrower was strongly committed to consolidating the peace and building a better future.              A solid
macroeconomic track record was established with a series of five successful reviews under the IMF PRGF.
The Government also established a good track record of successful reforms leading to improvements in
governance and in the environment for private sector-led investment. A draft PRSP was completed and is
under review by the authorities prior to distribution. The Government's continuing commitment to its
reform program and the positive outcomes of that program are reflected by the following achievements
made under the Letter of Development Policy:

Improved Governance

   l The Local Government Act was signed into Law in February 2004. The Act provides for the
        establishment of local councils and mandates their roles and functions. It establishes a regular
        election cycle for councilors as well as the fiscal and fiduciary standards for the conduct of council
        activities. The Act is notable for its references to audit requirements, anti-corruption measures and
        transparency. As such, the Act is fully satisfactory. It is noteworthy that local elections were held
        for the first time in 32 years in May 2004.

   l New Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) reports on education and essential drugs were
        completed. The former led to reduced leakages in resources transferred to the primary school
        system.

   l A new organic budget law, the Government Budgeting and Accountability Act, was approved by
        Cabinet under ERRC III. It was adopted by Parliament as a prior condition for ERRG IV.

   l The GOSL embarked on a comprehensive reform program for public procurement with the
        creation of a high level steering committee in March 2003. The initial proposal for the design of
        the reform program was completed in June 2003 under guidance from the UNDP and the Bank.
        The reform program consists of the introduction of new legislation to better guide procurement
        activities, new regulations to support that legislation and extensive training. These reforms apply
        to all government ministries, all local governments and all parastatals that use public funds.

   l After the ERRC III was designed, MOF took a decision to replace the Financial Management and



                                                     - 7 -

     Accounting System with a new, far better system referred to as the Integrated Financial
     Management Information System (IFMIS). The new system is financed by the Bank's Institutional
     Reform and Capacity Building (IRCB) project. It was successfully installed in June 2005.

Economic Growth

  l An Investment Code acceptable to the Bank was enacted in August 2004. The specific provisions
     of the Act guide investment procedures, incentives, guarantees and the settlement of disputes. The
     Investment Promotion Act will improve the investment climate in Sierra Leone by making the
     procedures for investment more transparent and predictable while removing discretionary powers
     from officials and ensuring a level playing field for all investors.

  l GOSL completed a study and implementation plan on the economic and fiscal impact of the
     adoption of the ECOWAS CET. The CET will help promote exports from Sierra Leone to the
     region and lower the cost of business through duty free imports from ECOWAS member countries.
     The CET was implemented from January 2005, making Sierra Leone the first ECOWAS country
     to implement the CET.

  l The National Commission for Privatization (NCP) has made progress on a number of fronts. The
     NCP prepared a comprehensive plan for the full implementation of the Government's divestiture
     strategy. A consulting firm has submitted a report on the privatization of the Ports Authority and a
     joint venture company was established to turn an industrial estate, the national workshop, into an
     economic and trade zone. Construction has already commenced. Due to its strategic importance to
     growth, a key outcome is the start of a management contract for the National Power Authority
     (NPA) along with the completion of a new electricity law and the establishment of a regulatory
     authority. Several bids for the NPA management contract are under evaluation.

  l The GOSL also completed three reforms that will facilitate private investment in the mining sector,
     historically a key sector for growth and job creation in Sierra Leone. These included: (i) the
     installation of a GIS and GPS-based mining cadastre that will greatly facilitate effective
     administration and enforcement of mineral rights; (ii) a new core mineral policy aimed at creating
     an internationally competitive legal and regulatory environment; and (iii) increased provision of
     extension services to miners from government mine engineers and mine wardens, including the
     creation of a new unit within the Ministry of Mineral Resources (MMR) aimed exclusively at the
     provision of such services. Progress is being made on the resumption of rutile exports, currently
     scheduled for 2006.

  l The Ministry of Mineral resources (MMR), with assistance from DfID and UNDP, began work on
     a cadastral system in August 2004. Since then, an integrated geographic information system and
     administrative system has been installed and the database has been populated with preliminary data
     from the larger mineral leases as well as many alluvial diamond licenses. The Ministry's staff has
     been assigned to work on the cadastre and trained in data collection and entry. Supporting
     procedures and changes in regulations have been drafted. A proof of concept test was completed
     on 30 November 2004 with acceptable results.

  l The Ministry of Mineral Resources had been providing the equivalent of extension services long
     before ERRC III was agreed, albeit on a small scale. Most recently, MMR supported its policy of
     increasing alluvial diamond output by hiring 30 more Mine Wardens. In November 2004, MMR
     chose to create a new unit in the Mines Department aimed exclusively at the provision of extension


                                                 - 8 -

          services to improve the identification of best reserve areas, enhance mine planning and processing
          activities, improve mine safety and adherence to labor standards, improve metal and mineral
          marketing and assist on activities of reclamation and rehabilitation of mined out areas.

4.2 Outputs by components:

See Section 4.1

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

It is difficult to assign attribution in most budget support operations such as ERRC III. There are may
other factors to consider including Government policies outside of ERRC III, the activities of other donors
and the pressure coming various interest groups. It is also the case that ERRC III both reinforced and
benefited from other Bank investment projects. The Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project
(IRCBP) is the most important of these because it overlaps strongly with ERRC III objectives for
decentralization and public financial management -- including procurement reform. Having said this, the
project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact, as demonstrated by the following:

    l Local Government legislation was enacted, local government elections were held and local councils
          were created. (See Section 4.1.). The Bank also helped GOSL establish two important supporting
          institutions   within    MOF    (Local    Government      Finance   Department)    and   MOLGCD
          (Decentralization Secretariat).

    l The PETS Report motivated real improvements in the distribution of primary school resources,
          significantly reducing financial leakages.

    l Several damaging amendments were made in 1996 to the Public Budgeting and Accounting Act of
          1992. These amendments had the effect of reducing the oversight roles of both the Office of the
          Auditor-General and the Parliament. The amendments also distorted the relationship between the
          Accountant-General's Department (AGD) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF).                  The new
          Government Budgeting and Accountability law drafted under ERRC III corrects the 1996
          amendments and more. It is the keystone of reform in public resource management. It clarifies
          roles and responsibilities, sets out rules for the use of public funds, sets requirements for
          accounting and auditing and the management of Government stores. The new Act was adopted in
          February 2005.

    l The new public procurement legislation and regulatory framework has a potentially strong impact
          to ensure transparency and efficiency in the use of public funds, if the new legislation is
          implemented well. The Act creates a National Public Procurement Authority (NPPA). The NPPA
          board was appointed in early 2005, core staff have been hired and are performing their duties. The
          Act also requires the creation of procurement units in all ministries. These are in place and their



                                                       - 9 -

        staff are being trained by the NPPA with assistance from supporting donors.

    l The impact of the Investment Code was positive. The Bank's intervention made it possible for
        Government to frame the debate around the completion of an acceptable investment code as
        opposed to the creation of new tax breaks that could have undermined the tax base. The resulting
        Investment Promotion Act should facilitate new investments over time. Data to measure the impact
        are kept by the office of the Administrator and Registrar but were unavailable at the time this ICR
        was written.

    l The impact of the credit on the Government's divestiture strategy is uncertain.           While the
        divestiture plan provided an adequate starting point, neither the MOF nor the donors provided
        enough resources in 2004 or 2005 for good quality preparatory work or capacity building in a
        weak NCP. DfID has only recently begun to provide such support. Neverless, by early 2005, the
        NCP had initiated the divestitures of a commercial bank, the National Development Bank and a
        forestry enterprise.

    l When the Mining Cadastre and Production and Sales Reporting System is fully operational, it will
        enable the government to manage more efficiently its 280 mining monitors to enforce laws and
        regulations governing the sector. It will also create more transparency into production figures and
        money flows, thereby pinning down the scale of smuggling and making it easier to impose better
        control mechanisms. It will also be an instrument for revenue generation within the sector, in
        particular, license fees and surface rents.

    l The Government has agreed to fund the expansion of the mining extension services to a national
        scale over the next several years with a focus on mine output, safety and environmental integrity.
        The Government has delivered the level of funding requested by MMR for this effort for 2005.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Positive Factors

Donor coordination and collaboration contributed strongly to the operation. Examples include procurement
reform supported by the Bank and UNDP, the investment code supported by IDA, FIAS and DfID, the
mining cadastre supported by the Bank, DfID and UNDP and mining extension services supported by the
Bank and DfID.

Negative Factors

(i) Low capacity of almost all ministries. Implementation of the actions agreed in the Program Matrix was
constrained by low capacity. This is a problem that the Government can address but only over several
years ­ it was essentially beyond government control for the period between credit effectiveness and
closing.

This low capacity resulted in the delayed completion of several conditions for the release of the second
tranche. This motivated a temporary risk rating in one of the Project Supervision Reports as the closing
date for the credit approached. An additional, intensive supervision mission was organized to help the
Government complete all conditions without waivers or extensions.



                                                     - 10 -

(ii) Inadequate information and technical assistance. Installation of a mining cadastre based on GIS and
GPS slipped substantially. This occurred because Government had not been made fully aware of the
technical requirements of a cadastral system, nor the costs of developing such a system. As a result, they
had not included the costs of the system in the 2004 budget and did not secure technical assistance in
advance.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Lack of an empowered leader and coordinator for the implementation of the ERRC III program.
Government had set up a Steering Committee to monitor the reform program. Yet there was no single
individual who was responsible for actively leading and coordinating the program implementation across all
the stakeholder ministries and agencies. The specific reason for this lack of leadership is unclear, falling
somewhere between the overwhelming nature of the workload facing far too few talented senior officials
and a lack of genuine commitment. The consequence, however, is clear. There was a lack of full
consensus from all relevant officials about the benefits of the program reforms. For example, the dispute
between the MOTI (which preferred to grant many tax breaks) and the MOF (which preferred to maintain
the tax base) regarding the Investment Code was not resolved in time for credit effectiveness. Consequently,
the reform had to be converted to a condition for the release of the second tranche.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See Section 5.2.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The full amount of the credit was disbursed in two tranches, as planned. Because of the fluctuation in the
SDR-US$ exchange rate, an amount of US$30.8 million was disbursed, instead of the estimated US$30
million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The overall sustainability of the credit is rated as likely.

Governance

    l Local Government Legislation, and local and district government elections. Sustainability is
        highly likely. The strong voter participation in the local government elections is an explicit
        endorsement of the restoration of local governance that any leader would be reluctant to challenge.

    l Implementing the PETS. Sustainability is weak because, the unit within MOF responsible for the
        work is partially funded by donors. When funding from one donor ends, staff are lost until a new
        donor is secured. To solve this problem, the credit design could have asked that MOF bring all
        required staff onto its payroll ­ though this would have also resulted in some personnel leaving
        their jobs due to low salary levels.

    l The key governance reforms required by the Government Budgeting and Accountability Act and
        the Public Procurement Act are likely to be implemented and sustained, though not without some



                                                      - 11 -

       difficulties. Most of the changes are not technically difficult, being focused more on transparency
       and accountability, yet capacity is low. The Government does appear committed to the reforms,
       with improved Governance being the first pillar in the new PRSP, and all major donors are
       strongly committed to providing all necessary technical assistance and funding for such reforms.

Economic Growth

   l Maintaining a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. Strong Government commitment to
       growth and low inflation and an adequate, if not spotless, track record suggest this objective is
       likely to be sustained. There are some risks: donor aid must be sustained and predictable and
       upcoming elections must not distract from good policy.

   l Sierra Leone was the first ECOWAS country to implement the Common External Tariff in
       January 2005. This reform is likely to be sustained because it reduces costs for many importers
       and increases the market available to many exporters. Moreover, the technical requirements of the
       reform are simple. There are some risks: the import tariff on some inputs and intermediates will
       have increased and this will motivate some dissent.

   l Sustainability of the Investment Code is highly likely. None of the sections in the new Investment
       Promotion Act are controversial or technically demanding and none could be expected to have any
       adverse consequences for any stakeholders. This would remain the case even if the Investment
       Promotion Act were supplemented by other policy changes such as the creation of new tax
       incentives.

   l Divestiture plan. Implementation of the investment plan is likely to be sustained, though over a
       longer period of time than originally envisaged. New technical assistance to the NCP suggests that
       the original schedule was too ambitious. As observed earlier, the NCP is now beginning to benefit
       from additional donor resources and it has initiated several transactions with clear intent to
       continue. There is some risk, however, that the form of divestiture for some specific transactions
       may be altered in response to political pressure from either Government leaders or various
       stakeholder groups.

   l Cadastral system. Both the MMR and the MOF are strongly committed to the cadastral system -
       both stand to gain in terms of revenues and an improved ability to administer mineral rights. The
       evidence of this commitment shows in the continued strong pace of implementation. Sustainability
       is also made likely by the continued strong support from the donor community for better
       administration of the diamond producing areas, notably from DfID, UNDP, USAID and the World
       Bank.

   l Pilot extension services.      Sustainability would depend upon the degree of government support
       which will, in turn, depend upon the perceived benefits of the system to both the MMR, the MOF
       and the mining community. Thus far, it appears the Government is committed to an expansion of
       the pilot to cover the entire nation. The first step is already completed: MOF provided MMR with
       a higher budgetary allocation for this purpose in the 2005 budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1




                                                    - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the credit was
satisfactory.

The credit was prepared in close partnership with the Government (Development Partnership Committee,
Ministry of Finance); several donors such as EC(FM, and MIS system in the OAG), DfID (civil service
reform; mining, PETS, security issues), and USAID (mining extension service), together with the IMF
(PRGF).

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. During the appraisal, the Bank assessed the credit's risks and benefits. Extensive stakeholder
consultations were also made during preparation. The Country Director, TTL, and the task team were
highly committed to the objectives of the credit, and they were flexible and responsive to local needs.

On the Bank's performance at lending, QAG had commented that:

"Bank Inputs and Processes were highly Satisfactory, reflecting a combination of good team composition
(highly skilled staff); first-rate documentation; and, highly efficient utilization of resources in the face of
credit complexity to optimize processing time (less than three months). The task team placed the whole
operation within an honest and realistic framework of risk and risk management, which warned of elements
that could be held hostage to backsliding on reforms (e.g. against corruption) and/or interventions from
continuing or new violence and security issues that could, for example, spill over into Sierra Leone from
Cote d'Ivoire or, again, from Liberia.   The team had also given, for each major area of risk, a clear and
convincing account of factors that would mitigate those risks."

The ICR team concurs with these observations of QAG.

There were some areas where the Bank could have done better. The Bank could have better anticipated the
consequences of the policy conflict between MOF and MOTI with regard to the Investment Code. It should
have been clear about the technical and financial requirements of some reforms, notably for the mining
cadastre. It also could have helped Government secure technical assistance in advance of implementation,
especially for the Investment Code and the mining sector reforms.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the credit was satisfactory. The credit
was intensively supervised and closely monitored, though this required expenditures in excess of the
supervision budget that was originally provided. PRS were filed after each mission. Implementation
problems were identified early and addressed proactively ­ particularly for the Investment Code,
procurement reform, mining cadastre and mining extension services. Each mission included follow-up on
previous guidance. There was flexibility, notably in moving the Investment Code condition from
effectiveness to the 2nd tranche.

The Bank, Borrower and other development partners worked very well together.                 In order to help
government achieve the mining cadastre system condition, DfID, UNDP and the Bank collaborated in a



                                                    - 13 -

well coordinated manner, using each other's resources to achieve common objectives. Another good
example is the collaboration among the Bank, Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) and DfID
which evolved after FIAS was sent in to help resolve the Investment Code issue. This kind of collaboration
helped both the MMR and the MOTI to become much more motivated about pursuing reforms than they
had been at the start.

The Bank could have, however, helped Government ensure that all implementation costs were included in
the budget for 2004, identifying alternative sources of financing and technical assistance as necessary ­
particularly for the mining sector reforms.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during credit preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the credit was satisfactory except for the
failure to identify, together with the Bank team, the consequences of the conflict between the MOF and
MOTI. The Borrower was consistently committed to the objectives of the credit. The credit benefited from
the fact that the Partnership Development Committee, charged with coordinating all donor assistance from
the Government side, was chaired by the Vice President of the country, an individual who is a strong
champion of Government economic strategy, very strongly committed to building the new, post-conflict
Sierra Leone along the lines underlying the ERRC III. The government officials worked closely with the
Bank's team with full cooperation and dedication.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The government implementation performance was satisfactory.

On one hand, the Government was highly committed to ERRC III. The Government made good progress in
carrying out the reform program described in the Letter of Development Policy. Substantial progress was
made relative to the situation at war's end in January 2002 with strong support from the donor community
including AfDB, DfID, EC, IMF and the Bank. The Government was strongly committed to consolidating
the peace and building a better future. A solid macroeconomic track record was established with a series of
six successful reviews under the IMF PRGF. The Government also established a good track record of
successful reforms leading to improvements in governance and in the environment for private sector-led
investment.


On the other hand, the Government did not include all implementation costs in its budget and it did not have
capacity to implement on a timely basis. In future operations, Government may wish to either seek a better
fit between triggers and capacity or explicitly seek to build capacity through recruitment and training
programs. These options are built into the design of the successor grant, ERRG IV.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

See Section 7.5




                                                   - 14 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons are pertinent to Development Policy Operations in Sierra Leone but they may be
extended to other countries characterized by low capacity, resulting from conflict or other causes, and high
aid dependency.

Bank-related.

Identification

Use a balanced approach. It is important for the government to maintain a balanced approach to support
development policy, aimed at macro-stabilization, good governance, selected aspects of capacity building
and stimulation of the private sector.

Be proactive in facilitating good outcomes.         Lending for development policy should not rely on
conditionality alone to catalyze and implement reforms. Government should be made fully aware of the
technical and financial requirements of each agreed reform at the identification stage of the operation in
order to facilitate implementation later. Thus, to be fully successful, the implementation of policy must be
supported by other instruments that provide technical assistance and help build country capacity step by
step. This backstopping should be coordinated with key development partners in the donor community
because the Bank's resources are limited.

Reduce complexity. The Bank should align the number and complexity of triggers (or conditions) with the
administrative and implementing capacity of Government.

Anticipate the tension between performance and macroeconomic stability. The cost of such slippages to
macro stability is higher in Sierra Leone because there are only four budget support donors - delays on the
part of one donor mean roughly 25 percent less budget support. In this context, it is useful to acknowledge
that the all or nothing requirements for the release of funds utilized by ERRC III created an incentive to
complete reforms yet macroeconomic stability was reduced when weak capacity slowed the achievement of
required actions. In essence, the design of the credit did not fully anticipate the delays that are likely in
post-conflict states. This problem is addressed in the successor operation (ERRG IV) by adopting a more
flexible approach. The release of funds is limited to a single tranche on the basis of prior actions supported
under a previous credit. Similarly, following Development Policy operations would be justified on the
basis of progress towards indicative "triggers" supported under preceding operations. In this regard, the
timing of the next operation would take into account any emerging concerns about the pace of program
implementation.

Supervision

Find an empowered leader from within Government to coordinate implementation of the reform
program. The appointment of a Steering Committee to monitor the reform program is not sufficient to
ensure good results. The probability of success will be increased when there is a senior government official
who has the responsibility and authority to lead and coordinate reforms across all stakeholder ministries.



                                                    - 15 -

Be prepared to invest extra resources into the supervision effort. Fragile states and countries emerging
from post-conflict situations may require much more detailed programs than usually seen in other
development policy operations. Where the administration lacks an effective work planning and monitoring
system, it is unlikely that milestones will be achieved unless they are further broken down into actions and
institutional responsibility is clearly assigned. This suggests the need for close monitoring and supervision.
The Bank should therefore provide a post-conflict premium to the supervision budget in the same way it
provides a post-conflict premium to the IDA allocation.

Government-related.

Find a champion from within Government to lead the reform program. (As above.)

Embark on a comprehensive program of capacity building. Government may wish to focus on capacity
building through recruitment and training programs, especially in-house training to ensure valued staff
remain on-hand as needed. This will improve implementation and reduce the risk that implementation
slippages would be translated into delays in tranche releases. Government could request donor assistance
for this purpose.

Anticipate the tension between performance and macroeconomic stability. It may be necessary to reduce
the level of expenditures to be more consistent with the most probable level of revenues and donor
assistance rather than what is promised or hoped for. This point was made in the 2004 Public Expenditure
Review, World Bank Report No. 29075-SL.

Donor-related.

The kind of partnership developed by the Bank with the Government, DfID, and UNDP can lead to
successful achievements as demonstrated by the outcome of the credit. The design of the Bank support for
policy reforms should therefore continue to seek to integrate the efforts of other active donors. In this
regard, the Quality Assurance Group noted that the ERRC III was "the glue" that bound the efforts of the
Government, Bank and donors together. In this light, there appears to be a consensus among all donors
that the best way for making progress in Sierra Leone is through a Framework for Multi-donor Budget
Support and a clear and consistent set of conditions that flow from the PRSP.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 16 -

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

1. Douglas Addison     Task Team Leader
2. Sati Achath         Consultant
3. Madhu Nair          Consultant
4. Marta Berhane       Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the credit in chronological order:

1. Preeti Arora
2. Douglas Addison

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

1. Mats Karlsson               Country Director
2. James Sackey                Country Manager
3. Preeti Arora                Former TTL and Sr. Economist
4. Leo Maraboli                Sr. Mining Specialist
5. Yongmei Zhou                PFM and Decentralization Specialist
6. Gerry Meyerman              Consultant PSD Specialist
7. Aasmund Anderson            U.N. Leader for GIS Project
8. Mohammed Warritay           Economic Policy Research Unit, Ministry of Finance
9. Lindsay Wallace             Former DfID Economist for Sierra Leone




                                                  - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Development Objective           Activities/Outputs                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Improving Governance and Service Local Government Legislation to be Achieved February 2004.
Delivery                         enacted.

                                 Local and District government elections   Achieved May 2004.
                                 to be held.
                                 Participatory mechanism for budget        Achieved.
                                 management established to keep the
                                 communities more involved in budget
                                 preparation and monitoring raising the
                                 accountability    standards    for   the
                                 government.

                                 Continue to prepare enhanced quarterly    Achieved.
                                 budget monitoring reports at the activity
                                 level.
                                 Extend and refine the MTEF to key         Not achieved.
                                 departments. Link it to the PRSP sector
                                 reviews    and   costings   of   priority
                                 programs.
                                 Implement    the      PETS    for  2002   Achieved.
                                 incorporating    the   recommendations
                                 from the 2000 PETS review.
                                 Enact the Organic Budget Law -            Achieved April 2005 (as a prior
                                 replacing the current Budgeting and       action for ERRG IV)
                                 Accounting Act to support improved
                                 financial management, and strengthen
                                 OAG .
                                 Strengthen the implementation of the      Achieved.
                                 FMAS through (a) improvements in
                                 technical documentation of the FMAS,
                                 including technical training manuals;
                                 (b) technical training courses to build
                                 capacity of FM staff; and (c) further
                                 integration of the budget bureau into
                                 the FMAS.
                                 Develop    a    comprehensive    reform   Achieved December 2004.
                                 program for public procurement and
                                 enact   new    legislation  and   adopt
                                 accompanying regulatory framework to
                                 ensure transparency and efficiency in
                                 the use of public funds.
Stimulating Economic Growth      Continue to maintain a satisfactory       Achieved.
                                 macroeconomic               framework.
                                 Continuous.    Before release of each
                                 tranche.
                                 Finalize the study on the economic and    Achieved.
                                 fiscal impact of Sierra Leone's adoption
                                 of CET and prepare an action plan for
                                 the      implementation      of      the
                                 recommendations, consistent with the
                                 timetable for the establishment of the
                                 West African Monetary Zone.




                                                         - 18 -

Government prepares a clear, transparent Achieved August 2004.
and fair investment code in consultation
with the World Bank and Foreign
Investment Advisory Service.
The NCP prepares a comprehensive plan Achieved September 2003.
for the full implementation of the
Government's divestiture strategy.

Install a geological information system Achieved December 2004.
(GIS) and global positioning system
(GPS) based mining cadastre that will
provide     the   basis   for    effective
administration    and   enforcement     of
mineral rights.
Initiate pilot extension services to      Achieved December 2004.
improve the identification of best
reserve areas, enhance mine planning
and processing activities, and assist on
activities    of    reclamation     and
rehabilitation of mined out areas.




                        - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Available electronically.




                                      - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost Benefit Analysis

N/A




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               04/25/2003                2    Snr. Economist, TTL (1)               S               S
                                              Snr. Private Sector Development
                                              Expert (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/20/2003                1    Snr. Economist, TTL (1)               S               S


 Supervision

               01/19/2004                 3   Snr. Economist, TTL (1);              S               S
                                              Mining Expert (1);
                                              Procurement Expert (1)
               06/10/2004                 3   Snr. Economist, TTL (1);              S               S
                                              Mining Expert (1);
                                              Procurement Expert (1)
               06/10/2004                 2   Procurement (1); Mining (1)           S               S
               09/23/2004                 3   TTL (1); Mining Expert (1);           S               S
                                              Procurement Expert (1)


 ICR
               08/15/2005                2     Snr. Economist (1)                   S               S
                                               Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               9.08                         62.949
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    1.00                          6.994
  Supervision                             37.84                        229.062
  ICR                                      5.00                         20.000
  Total                                                                319.006




                                               - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated May 2005.

5. Program Document for Sierra Leone Third Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit,
   April 23, 2003 (Report No.25812-SL).

6. Program document for Sierra Leone Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Grant,
   May 3, 2005 (Report No. 31386-SL).

7. Final Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA6) by QAG, September 3, 2003.




                                                 - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

I.       Objective of Project

1.       The ERRC III was a quick-disbursing credit in the amount of US$30 million to support selected
aspects of Sierra Leone's strategy of poverty reduction, founded on good governance and economic growth.

II.      Achievements of Project

2.       The funds provided by the World Bank under the project formed part of the resources required in
achieving government's goals of promoting good governance including the fight against corruption,
improving management of public resources, promoting decentralization for improved delivery of basic
services and stimulating economic growth by establishing an enabling environment for private sector-led
investment. The ERRC III enabled government to raise the resources for the importation of essential
commodities, including food products, petroleum products, and the raw materials and intermediate goods
required for economic reconstruction and rehabilitation. The proceeds of the credit assisted government in
laying the foundation for the transition from the emergency phase to sustainable growth and poverty
reduction.

3.       Macroeconomic Performance             Broad-based economic growth was maintained with output
growth recorded at 9.3 percent in 2003 from 27.5 percent in 2002, and estimated to have grown by 7.4
percent in 2004. This trend in growth is attributed to expansions in agriculture, mining, construction and
the services sectors which were facilitated in part by the foreign exchange resources generated by the credit
channelled through the foreign exchange auction at the Bank of Sierra Leone. Inflationary pressures
resurfaced, however, in late 2003 after being contained at single digit in most of 2002, and further to
double digits in 2004. This was mainly due to external factors including escalating prices for petroleum
products and its pass-through effects as well as delays in disbursements of donor resources including the
ERRC III. Delay in disbursing was partly on account of slow progress in the implementation of agreed
structural reform measures. The delay in donor disbursement further led to higher bank financing, higher
interest payments and expansion in money supply.

4.       Fiscal Performance         Domestic revenue generation has been enhanced to cater for critical
government expenditures. But delays and shortfalls in external budgetary support constrained the budget
which was effectively managed to stem higher fiscal deficit and avoid cash problems. Expenditures in
poverty reducing activities were Government's top priority. In this regard, additional resources were
allocated to finance health and educational services, infrastructural projects such as major road
construction and feeder roads, improving the thorny problem is electricity generation, water and sanitation,
building additional schools and hospitals and public facilities.

5.       External Sector Performance          Exports, comprising mainly diamonds, grew by 75.9 percent to
US$ 135.7 million in 2004 from US$ 77.1 million in 2003. Imports, however, fell by 5.7 percent to US$
286.4 million in 2004 from US$ 303.6 million in 2003 due to the phased withdrawal of UNAMSIL and the
reduction in NGO activities. The trade deficit, therefore, narrowed down by 44 percent, from US$ 214.3
million in 2003 to US$ 120 million in 2004. Gross official reserves of the Bank of Sierra Leone
significantly increased to the equivalent of over three months of imports, while the maintenance of a flexible
exchange rate has contributed to maintain Sierra Leone's competitiveness. Sierra Leone's total external
debt increased from US$1.2 billion in 1996 to about US$1.7 billion by the end of 2004. The increase in the
debt stock underscores Government credibility to prudently borrow for development programmes and
reflects the level of creditors' willingness to provide loan resources to finance the poverty reduction


                                                     - 26 -

programme.

6.       Performance under Fund Programme Government's performance under the Poverty Reduction
and Growth Facility (PRGF) arrangement with the IMF was satisfactory reflected by the completion
reports of the fourth and fifth reviews of the programme by end-2004.

III.     Progress Achieved in Structural Reforms

7.       The peace achieved in 2002 steadily improved throughout the implementation period of the credit.
The disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) program was completed in February 2004; the
Executive Secretariat of NCDDR closed its offices to the public on 31 March 2004, having attained
disarmament of 72,490 combatants, demobilized 71,043 including 6,845 child soldiers; 55,122
ex-combatants were provided support for reintegration into active community life; a one-off payment was
made to a residual caseload of 3600 eligible ex-combatants each that had not participated in Reintegration
activities; and the report of a final external evaluation made available to the public.

8.       Peace with neighboring Liberia markedly improved to further enhance stability through exchange
of visits by the Heads of State of Liberia and Sierra Leone and the signing of an agreement in Conakry on
September 3, 2004 to hand over the village to Sierra Leone and embark on re-delineation of border points
in the border area. Far-reaching restructuring and re-equipping of the police service continued in 2004. The
Office of National Security recruited the full complement of staff to facilitate internal and external
intelligence operations for vigilance against home-grown and external threat and terrorism. The withdrawal
of the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL), originally scheduled for end-2004, was
delayed by the UN Security Council, maintaining a reduced UNAMSIL presence until mid-2005, to allow
more time for strengthening domestic armed and police forces.

9.       In order to facilitate institutional strengthening for the fight against corruption, in March 2004, the
Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) commenced implementing the recommendations which emanated from
a review of the organization and its activities in 2002. The recommendations included capacity building,
strategic planning, staff rationalization, pay enhancement, and other improvements in the conditions of
service. Furthermore, the prosecution of alleged corruption cases was expedited by the recruitment of
Justice R.A. Schuster from the United Kingdom which yielded an impressive record of 8 convicted cases in
9 months. The duration of alleged cases in the High Courts was shortened to 4 weeks. On the investigative
side, the relevant department of the commission was strengthened by the recruitment, by DfID, of two
principal investigators and a senior investigator. Various sections of the Anti-Corruption Strategy were
drafted. Government established the National Anti-Corruption Strategy Steering Committee. The Regional
Branch Office of the Anti-Corruption Commission was officially opened in Bo by H.E. the President in
December 2004.

10.      Government took positive steps in reinstating decentralized governance and a democratic local
government system dissolved for 32 years. The Local Government Act was enacted in March 2004
followed by local government elections in May 2004. Consistent with the Act, a devolution plan and
timetable was developed by government for 2005-2008 transition period. Staffing in the 19 councils was
completed, followed by training and orientation of staffs local councils and councilors. The Ministry of
Finance identified budgetary resources (for the 2005 budget) from line ministries for the devolved functions
using a grants distribution formula, which reflects the relative needs of each council. Funds were released
to all local councils to cover administrative expenses, salaries and sitting fees.




                                                       - 27 -

11.      With support from the credit, Government stepped up reforms of the procurement system and
improved its efficiency and transparency. In March 2003, government suspended the activities of the
Central Tender Board and established a Procurement Reform Steering Committee (chaired by the Vice
President) including a Technical Working Group. The cumulative effort of the Steering Committee and the
Technical Working Group has resulted in passing into law the new National Public Procurement Act by
Parliament in December 2004. In compliance with the Act, a National Public Procurement Authority Board
and an Independent Review Panel have been established and procurement committees created in all MDAs
including Local District Councils to determine their procurement needs on the basis of a decentralized
procurement system.

12.      In order to enhance the participatory nature of the budget process, Government encouraged
Community and Civil Society participation in Budget preparation and execution. Civil Society
Organizations' representatives actively participate in the annual Policy Hearings and budget discussions
when line Ministries and Departments defend their respective budget policies, proposals and activities. To
further strengthen the process, in 2003 the Government established Budget Oversight Committees
nationwide at District level, involving Paramount Chiefs and Community representatives to participate as
stakeholders in monitoring public expenditures at communal level.

13.      To deepen the implementation of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) introduced
in 2001, a set of MTEF guidelines were prepared, approved by Cabinet and circulated to all Ministries and
Departments in August 2003. These guidelines stressed the importance of strategic plans in the budget
process, which include output/outcome (performance) indicators for Ministries, Departments and Agencies
(MDAs) to facilitate the monitoring of improvements in the delivery of public services.

14.      The Financial Management and Accountability System (FMAS) was introduced after CFAA was
completed. A number of staff of the Accountant General were provided training in the use of MS Access
and MS Excel. The Accountant General's Department was networked with the Budget Bureau in the
Ministry of Finance. However, following two diagnostic studies conducted in 2003, serious flaws were
identified in FMAS. As a result, in 2004, a new Integrated Financial Management Information System
(IFMIS) and the Chart of Accounts was adopted to replace FMAS in the Accountant General's
Department. This is intended to improve the Public Financial Management (PFM) system to pave the way
to successful implementation of the pro-poor policies articulated in the poverty reduction strategy.

15.      A new Government Budgeting and Accountability bill was laid before Parliament for enactment by
end-2004. The bill aims at securing transparency, accountability, and sound management of the budget,
assets and liabilities of the Government of Sierra Leone. It is intended to put right a number of provisions
of the Public Budgeting and Accounting Act 1992 (as amended) which did not adequately reflect the
important oversight roles of both Parliament and the Audit Service in the execution and monitoring of the
national budget, as was revealed in the Country Financial and Accountability Assessment (CFAA)
conducted in 2001.

16.      As part of its continuing effort to ensure transparency and accountability in the management and
use of public resources, annual public expenditure tracking surveys (PETS) have been conducted and key
recommendations made on improving public expenditure management and service delivery which
commenced in 2002 for FY 2001. An Action Plan for the implementation of PETS findings for the periods
surveyed has been drawn and progress in implementation by the relevant MDAs is being monitored. This
has led to a greater improvement in public service delivery and has complemented improvements achieved
in transparency and accountability in the use of public funds. The fourth PETS for FY 2003 expenditures



                                                    - 28 -

conducted in August/September 2004 covers distribution of seed rice in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Food Security, distribution of essential drugs in the Ministry of Health and school furniture in
Education.

17.      To support private sector development, Government in consultation with all stakeholders,
developed a transparent and competitive Investment Code based on international best practice. The Code
was promulgated into law in 2004. Wide ranging tax incentives have been included in the relevant tax laws
and not in the Investment Code

With support from the World Bank, government undertook a study to assess the economic and fiscal
impact on adopting the ECOWAS Common External Tariff (CET). The recommendations of the report are
being implemented. As a first step, government commenced in the 2005 Budget the gradual adjustment of
tariffs to those of the CET.

18.      The National Commission for Privatization (NCP) embarked upon a number of projects to speed
up the privatization of state enterprises. In the financial sector, KPMG was selected to lead the
privatization of the National Development Bank (fully government-owned) and the Rokel Commercial
Bank (majority government-owned). A consulting firm, PKF, submitted a report to the government for the
privatization of the non-core activities of the ports, namely, port services, ferry services, slipway and clinic.
In addition, the terms of reference were prepared for the consultant to undertake a study on the core
activities. A joint venture company was established to transform the National Workshop into an economic
and trade zone to boost job creation opportunities for Sierra Leoneans. The UNDP provided funding for the
evaluation of the assets of the Forestry Industries and KPMG appointed to undertake the study.

19.      In pursuance of its objective to achieve an effective administration of the mineral sector and the
enforcement of mineral rights, Government, with support from the credit and other development partners,
initiated a geological information system (GIS) and global positioning system (GPS) based mining cadastre
policy project. The project which aims at modernizing the legal and regulatory framework for the
establishment of an effective administration and management system for the creation of the enabling
environment to attract private investment, resulted in hiring the services of a consultant to conduct a study
for the installation of a mining cadastre, the procurement of computers and collation of relevant
data/information to facilitate the process.

20.      Government initiated action on a pilot extension services project in the Kono District, first through
an NGO that set up an office in Kono and started holding consultations with the Ministry of Mineral
Resources and other stakeholders to determine the modality of the project; and secondly, developed a plan
of activities, staff deployment, training, and logistics for the project. With support from the proceeds of the
credit, the Ministry of Mineral Resources undertook part of the components of the project which include the
reclamation and rehabilitation of mined out areas in Kono District, and establishment of an office in Kono
and a diamond evaluator to provide assistance in pricing diamond findings of alluvial miners. The full pilot
extension service is expected to take of in fiscal year 2006.

IV.      Positive and Negative Factors Affecting Project Implementation

21.      On the positive side, the credit facilitated achievement in the external financing objective of raising
the external reserves level (as mentioned in paragraph 5 above). It also provided quick-disbursing funds for
balance of payment support. On the negative side, although the credit was meant to sterilize money growth,
the delays in tranche releases derailed fiscal management targets and led to bank financing of the budget




                                                      - 29 -

deficit, creating inflationary pressures and growth in money supply.

V.       Sustainability of Achievements/Outcomes

22.      Government is firmly committed to ensure lasting peace and security and improve governance;
substantially reduce poverty, hunger and unemployment; and adhere to pursuing the Millennium
Development Goals. On the macroeconomic front, Government will continue to make progress towards
post-conflict macroeconomic stability. The key sectors, namely, mining, agriculture, manufacturing,
construction and services will continue to drive growth, which is projected to grow by 7.5 percent in 2005.
Government is poised to take additional measures to align the annual budgets with the PRSP, clarify
expenditure priorities while taking into account the existing fiscal constraints, and ensure provision of
adequate capacity for effective monitoring and implementation. Government will continue to strengthen
domestic revenue collection as well as continue to seek external donor support, which will help to protect
priority spending programmes and projects from adverse shocks. Strengthening the involvement of the
private sector will continue, and will be aided by pursuing further structural measures on legal and
institutional reforms. Government will advance the pace of civil service reform as well as the privatization
of public enterprises to improve efficiency of service delivery and strengthen competitiveness.


VI.      Bank Performance During Preparation and Supervision

23.      Government was concerned about the approach in selecting structural reform measures and timing
of implementation of the measures, as adequate consultation with the reforming bodies was imperative
given the need for availability of capacity and resources to enable reforms go through. Also, the adequacy
of tranches in the credit as far as budgetary support is concerned needs to be taken into account. More
importantly, the donor coordination is desirable in view of the need to synchronize sectoral reform
measures to facilitate focus and implementation of         reforms consistent with the programmes of the
implementing agencies.

24.      On supervision of the project, Government appreciates the effort of consultants in the mining sector
cadastre reforms. They worked diligently to ensure progress by training staff in the Ministry of Mineral
Resources in preparing strategic plans. This includes the effort of the Senior Economist of the Bank in
providing technical backstopping to Mines and Auditor General in the writing of proposals submitted to the
Ministry of Finance and DfID.

VII.     Lessons Learnt

25.      Lessons learnt included the need for participation of all stakeholders in reforms from inception,
preparation to implementation stages to guarantee risk-free implementation of reform measures. As well,
the Ministry of Finance appreciates the essence of pursuing on a continual basis the monitoring,
implementation and reporting of agreed reforms with development partners.




                                                     - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower Comments




                                     - 31 -

- 32 -

