                                       SIERRA LEONE
                   Third EconomicRehabilitationand Recovery Credit
                                        (Cr. 3765-SL)
                      Release of SecondTranche - FullCompliance


                                    I.BACKGROUND

 1.      The Credit has assisted the Government o f Sierra Leone (GOSL) in moving from
the transitional phase o f peace building to the medium-term phase o f Sierra Leone's
strategy o f poverty reduction.    It has provided critical resources to finance activities
associated with the consolidation of progress made in governance and the stimulation o f
economic growth by establishing an enabling environment for private sector-led
investment.    Progress made in governance includes improved management o f public
resources, the first local government elections in 32 years and the beginning o f
decentralization o f government. Economic growth has been stimulated by maintaining
macroeconomic stability, revising the investment code to make it more transparent and
competitive to attract investors, preparing for further liberalizing the trade regime,
pursuing a divestiture strategy and implementing reforms inthe mining sector. The credit
has also allowed the import o f essential commodities, including food products, petroleum
products, and the raw materials and intermediate goods required for economic
reconstruction and rehabilitation o f social and economic infrastructure country-wide.

                     11. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

2.       Sierra Leone has a three year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) which was approved on
September 26, 2001.      The GOSL has successfully completed five reviews under the
PRGF, the most recent being November 12, 2004. Real GDP growth in 2003 and 2004
was stronger thafi expected and substantial progress was made in the implementation o f
structural measures.

3.      Real sector developments. Sierra Leone's impressive economic performance
continued into 2003 and 2004 when real GDP grew by an estimated 9.3 percent and 7.4
percent respectively, despite an oil price shock, marking the fourth and fifth straight years
o f sustained economic recovery.' This post-conflict recovery has been propelled by the
dynamic growth of donor-financed imports, large-scale resettlement and reconstruction
activities, major increases in landunder cultivation, increased investor confidence as well
as growing remittances, investments and tourism by the large Sierra Leone expatriate
community, and broadly sound economic policies.

4.      The current account in 2004 came under continued pressure from high fuel
prices and higher rice prices. Despite this, the current account deficit for 2004 increased


1       These data include new GDP estimates reported by the authorities. These
        estimates, and associated GDP shares, are under review and are subject to change.

only to 11.5 percent o f GDP rather than the original projection o f 16.3 percent o f GDP.
This is due inpart to continued strong export performance, mainly from diamonds. Gross
official reserves were the equivalent o f 2.0 months o f imports versus the target o f 2.2
months o f imports.

5.       Fiscal and monetaryperformancein2004, as reported inthe fifth review under
the PRGF, was acceptable despite extemal and intemal shocks. Domestic revenue as a
share o f GDP is expected to reach 12.2 percent o f GDP, better than the program target o f
11.7 percent o f GDP. Grant receipts, however, are below target while expenditures will
be above target - due in part to higher imported fuel prices and higher than expected
domestic interest payments. This will result in a deficit, after grants, o f 7.5 percent o f
GDP relative to the target o f 5.5 percent o f GDP. This requires larger than programmed
domestic financing o f the budget, especially from the banking system.          Broad and
reserve money growth rates are therefore higher than programmed for the year as a
whole. A waiver for the net domestic bank credit was therefore granted as part o f the
decision to complete the fifth review o f the PRGF. The GOSL is committed to the
maintenance o f macroeconomic stability and is working with the IMF to bring
expenditures into line with available resources, with particular emphasis on fiscal
adjustment rather than domestic borrowing.

6.       Consumer prices rose in 2004, initially owing to higher imported fuel and rice
prices and later as a result o f an expansionary monetary policy and a depreciation o f the
currency. The estimated annual average inflation rate for 2004 i s 13.6 percent versus a
target o f 4.8 percent. Rising domestic prices also pushed up interest rates: the end-year
treasury bill rate increased to 28 percent in November 2004 from 20.2 percent in
December 2003.

         111.PROGRESSINIMPLEMENTINGTHE REFORMPROGRAM

7.       The World Bank is satisfied with the progress made by the Govemment in
carrying out the reform program described in the Letter o f Development Policy.
Substantial progress has been made relative to the situation at war's end in January 2002
with strong support from the donor community including AfDB, DflD, EU, IMFand the
World Bank. The Borrower i s strongly committed to consolidating the peace and
buildinga better future. A solid macroeconomic track record has been established with a
series o f five successful reviews under the IMF PRGF. The Govemment has also
established a good track record of successful reforms leading to improvements in
govemance and in the environment for private sector-led investment. A draft PRSP has
been completed and is under review by the authorities prior to distribution.          The
Government's continuing commitment to its reform program and the positive outcomes
o f that program are reflected by the following achievements made under the Letter of
Development Policy:




                                            -2-

 Security

    The government completed its disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration(DDR)
    program for ex-combatants inFebruary 2004.
    The security situation is stable throughout the country. Additional police have been
    recruited, trained, equipped and deployed while the military i s beingrestructured.
    The Truth and Reconciliation Committee has completed public hearings which were
    attended by all parties involved in the conflict. A report has been submitted to the
    Government and the UnitedNations.

 Improved Governance

    The Local Government Act was signed into law in February 2004 and the first local
    government elections in 32 years were successfully completed in May 2004. Local
    councils are now fully operational.
    New Public Expenditure Tracking Survey reports on education and essential drugs
    were issued.     The former led to substantial savings as major leakages were
    eliminated.
    A new Government Budgeting and Accountability Act was drafted to replace the
   current, flawed Budgeting and Accounting Act. I t was put before Parliament in
    September 2004 andi s expectedto be enactedinearly 2005.
    GOSL has developed a comprehensive reform program for public procurement
   including the enactment o f a new procurement law.
   The hctionality of the current Financial Management Accounting System has been
   strengthened through the provision o f training courses, training manuals and the
   purchase o f a new computer server for the distribution o f data. This system has,
   however, reached its technical limits and will be replaced in late 2005 by a new
   Integrated FinancialManagement Information System.

Improvements in Social Services

   Primary school enrollment increased by 15 percent between 2002/03 and 2003/04
   according to Ministry o f Education data. Continued progress was also made in the
   computerization o f the payroll database.
   Improvements in the management o f the health system include the establishment o f
   25 District Finance Offices appropriately equipped and staffed by trained Finance
   Officers, training of 30 Ministry o f Health staff in the collection and analysis o f
   health information, training o f 17 financial officers and the award o f a contract for the
   computerization o f financial management functions.

Investment and Growth

   The transparency of the investment climate was improved through enactment o f a
   new investmentcode inAugust 2004.
   GOSL has finalized a study and implementation plan on the economic and fiscal
   impact of the adoption o f the ECOWAS Common External Tariff (CET). The CET



                                            -3-

     will help promote exports from Sierra Leone to the region and lower the cost of
     business. Implementationo f the CET i s expected to beginin2005.
a    The National Commission for Privatization has made progress on a number of fronts.
     A consulting firm has submitted a report on the privatization o f the Ports Authority
     and a joint venture company has been established to turn an industrial estate, the
     national Workshop, into an economic and trade zone. Construction has already
     commenced. Due to its strategic importance to growth, a key outcome is the start o f a
     management contract for the National Power Authority along with the completion of
     a new electricity law and the establishment o f a regulatory authority. Several bids for
     the contract are under evaluation.
a    The GOSL has also completed three reforms that will facilitate private investment in
     the mining sector, historically a key sector for growth and job creation in Sierra
     Leone.    These include i)the installation o f a mining cadastre that will greatly
     facilitate effective administration and enforcement of mineral rights, ii)a new core
     mineral policy aimed at creating an internationally competitive legal and regulatory
     environment and iii)increased provision o f extension services to miners from
     Government mine engineers and mine wardens, including the creation o f a new unit
     within the Ministryof Mineral Resources aimed exclusively at the provision of such
     services. Progress i s being made on the resumption o f rutile exports, currently
     scheduled for 2006.

             IV. PROGRESSAGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA

8.       The Government hasmaintaineda satisfactory macroeconomic framework as
agreed with the World Bank and the IMF (see paragraphs 2 through 6). Inparticular, real
GDP growthhas exceeded expectations andthe authorities have completed five
successful reviews under the IMFPRGF.

9.       TheBank is satisfied with the progress achieved by Government incarrying out
the structural aspects o fthe program. Progress against specific tranche releasecriteria, as
set out inthe amended Schedule 2 o f the Development Credit Agreement, is described
below.

         Condition1. The Borrower has, inaccordance with Paragraph 24 ofthe LDP,
         enacted Local Government legislation satisfactory to the Association definingthe
         roles and responsibilities o fthe central government and the local governments.

10.      This conditionhas beenmet. The Local Government Act was signedinto law in
February 2004. The Act provides for the establishment o f local councils and mandates
their roles and functions. It establishes aregular electioncycle for councillors as well as
the fiscal and fiduciary standards for the conduct of council activities. The Act i s notable
for its references to audit requirements, anti-corruption measures and transparency. As
such, the Act i s fully satisfactory. It i s noteworthythat local elections were held for the
first time in 32 years inMay 2004.




                                                -4-

         Condition2. The Borrower has developed a comprehensive reform program for
         public procurement and enacted legislation, acceptable to the Association, to
         implement suchprogram.

 11.     This conditionhasbeenmet. The Government of Sierra Leone embarked on a
 comprehensive reform program for public procurement with the creation o f a highlevel
 steering committee inMarch 2003. The initial proposal for the design o f the reform
 program was completed inJune 2003 under guidance from the UNDP and the World
 Bank. The reform program consists ofthe introductiono f new legislation to better guide
procurement activities, new regulations to support that legislationand extensive training.
 These reforms apply to all government ministries, all localgovernments and all
parastatals that use public funds.

 12.    As partofthe reformprogramdescribed above, procurement legislation
acceptable to the Association was signed into law on December 7,2004. The
Procurement Act establishes appropriate institutional and organizational arrangements as
well as clear and transparent procurement rules and procedures to guidepublic
procurement without room for discretionary decisions. The law will enhance economy
and efficiency, transparency, equal opportunityto bidders, accountabilityand reduction
o fprocurement-related corruption.

        Condition 3, The Borrower has strengthenedthe implementationofthe Financial
        Management Accounting System (FMAS)referredto inParagraph 18 o f the LDP
        through (a) improvements intechnical documentation o f the FMAS, including
        technical training manuals; (b) provision o f technical training courses to financial
        management staff; and (c) hrther integration o f the budget bureau into the
        FMAS.

13.     This conditionhasbeen met. The Accountant-General's Department (AGD)
producedimproved technical documentation and training manuals inJanuary 2004.
Technical training courses usingACCESS and EXCELto analyze FMAS data and make
reports were provided to AGD financial management staff inJune 2004. The Budget
Bureauhad beengrantedthe rights to read data and generate reports from the FMAS,
withinthe offices ofthe AGD, prior to ERRC 111. Furtherintegration ofthe Budget
Bureau into the FMAS was achieved in2004 through the installation o f a server that
contains MS ACCESS data downloaded from FMAS. This allows the Budget Bureauto
use FMAS data directly from their own offices.

        Condition4. The Borrower has finalized a study onthe economic and fiscal
        impact of its adoption o f the ECOWAS CommonExternalTariff (CET) and
       prepared an actionplan acceptable to the Association for the implementation o f
        the recommendations o f such study.

14.     This condition hasbeen met. The NationalRevenueAuthority (NFW)
commissioned a report on the economic and fiscal impact o f the ECOWAS CET with
financial assistance from USAID. This report was discussed in a nationalworkshop held



                                           -5-

on 29 April 2004 and attended by the businesscommunity includingrepresentatives of
the Chamber o f Commerce, the Association o fJoumalists, representatives from the Bank
o f Sierra Leone and the commercialbanks andby government ministries. The draft was
thenrevisedinaccordance with suggestions from the participants. The report was
circulatedto all concerned stakeholders as well as the ECOWAS Secretariat and major
donors including the World Bank. The final version of the report was reviewedby the
National Technical Coordinating Committee chaired by the NRA and consistingo f
representatives o f the NRA, Ministryo f Finance (MOF), Ministryo f Trade and Industry,
MinistryofDevelopmentandEconomic Planning, Statistics Sierra Leone, the Bank of
Sierra Leone and the Chamber o f Commerce. The report was also presentedat an
ECOWAS technical workshop on 25-27 July 2004. The Commissioner-General o f the
NRAandthe FinancialSecretary ofthe MOFhave bothreviewedand approved the
report which includes an actionplanfor the implementationo fthe recommendations o f
the study (including the introduction ofcompensating revenuemeasures). The World
Bankhasreviewedthe studyand actionplanand finds both are acceptable.

        Condition5. The Borrower has installeda geographic informationsystem (GIS)
        anda global positioning system (GPS) basedminingcadastre ina manner
        satisfactory to the Association to provide the basis for effective administration
        and enforcement o fmineral rights.'

15.     This conditionhasbeen met. Thebasic specifications for the designo f an
acceptable cadastral system were agreed between the Government and the Bank inJuly
2004. The Ministryof Mineral Resources (MMR),with assistance from DfID and
UNDP, beganwork on a cadastral system inAugust 2004. Since then, the systemhas
been designed, data have been collected, a GIS computer system has been designed and
an administrative computer systemhas beendesigned. Ministrystaff have been assigned
to work on the cadastre and have beentrained indata collection and entry. Supporting
procedures and changes inregulations have beendrafted. A proofo f concept test was
completed on 30 November 2004 with acceptable results.

        Condition 6. Inaccordance with its miningsector policy as described in
        paragraph 29 o f the LDP, the Borrower has initiatedpilot extension services to
        improve the identification o fbest reserve areas, enhancemine planning and
        processing activities, and assist on activities o freclamationandrehabilitationo f
        minedout areas.

16.     This conditionhasbeen met. Extensionservices are providedchiefly by MMR
Mine Engineers and MineWardens. Theirjob descriptions explicitly require that advice
beprovidedto mine operators. They routinely provide guidance onmineplanning and
processing activities and on techniques for reclaimationof minedout areas. Mine
Engineersprovidetechnical guidance on mineplanning andprocessing and reclaimation.



    The word geologicalinthe Development Credit Agreement was a typographical
    error. The correct word i s geographic.


                                             -6-

MineWardens helpdemarcate miningplots (aplanningfunction) andprovide guidance
on how to implement the technical guidance from the engineers.

17.     MMRbackedits policy ofincreasingalluvial diamondoutput byhiring30 more
MineWardens inAugust 2004. These wardens areneededto assist inthe demarcation of
new and existing alluvial pits, to help establish order inthe mining areas and to provide
technical assistance to the miners.

18.     InNovember 2004, MMRchoseto consolidate these activitiesinto anewunitin
the MinesDepartment aimed exclusively at theprovisionof extension services to
improve the identification o fbest reserve areas, enhancemine planningandprocessing
activities, improve mine safety and adherence to labor standards, improve metal and
mineral marketingand assist on activities o f reclamationandrehabilitation o fminedout
areas. The new unit will initially be staffed by one geologist, one engineer, two wardens
andone mines monitoring officer.

        Condition7. The Borrower has enactedaninvestment code acceptable to the
        Association.

19.     This conditionhasbeen met. An investmentcode acceptable to the Association
was enacted inAugust 2004. The specific provisions o f the Act guide investment
procedures, incentives, guarantees and the settlement o f disputes. The Investment
Promotion Act will improve the investment climate inSierra Leone by makingthe
procedures for investmentmore transparent and predictable while removing discretionary
powers from officials and ensuring a level playing field for all investors.


                                   IV. CONCLUSION

20.     Inviewofthe overallperformanceandprogresswiththeimplementationofthe
program supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions o f
release as described inparagraphs 8 19 above, the Association has informedthe
                                      -
Borrower o f the availability o fthe second tranche inthe equivalent o f SDR 11million.




                                             -7-

