Page  1
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053298 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Energy Efficiency Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated                                                     , 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053298 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated                          , 2004, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL 
DEL URUGUAY (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x) 
Article XI; and. 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
Page  4
-
3
-
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”; and 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means any business, industry or ESCO (as hereinafter 
defined) that operate in the territory of the Recipient and meet the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual as beneficiaries of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
“DINAMA” means 
Dirección Nacional de Medio Ambiente, 
the 
Recipient’s National Directorate of Environmental Management;  
(c) “DNE” 
means 
Dirección Nacional de Energía
,
the Recipient’s Energy 
National Directorate; 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in part A. 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for Sub-loans, Sub-
grants, goods and services referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“ESCO” means energy service companies; 
(g) “MIEM” 
means 
Ministerio de Industria, Energía y Minería
,
the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining;  
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i) “OPP” 
means 
Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto
,
the Recipient’s 
Office of Budget and Planning; 
(j) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Project development studies” means the feasibility and other studies 
required to prepare a proposal for an energy efficiency investment Sub-project under Part 
A.2 of the Project;   
(l) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in paragraph 1, Part B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and “Special Account” mean any “Special Accounts”; 
(m) 
“Sub-grant” means any financing  made or proposed to be made on a 
grant basis by the Recipient through UFEE (as hereinafter defined) to a Beneficiary to 
finance up to 67 percent of  the cost of project development studies for a Sub-project,  out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(n) 
“Sub-loan” means any debt financing made or proposed to be made on a 
commercial basis by the Recipient through UFEE (as hereinafter defined) to a 
Page  6
-
5
-
Beneficiary to finance up to 85 percent of  the costs of implementing a Sub-project out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(o) 
“Sub-project” means any energy efficiency investment under Part A.3 of 
the Project which is selected, approved and implemented in accordance with the 
requirements of the Operational Manual; 
(p) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Transit Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and “Transit Account” means any “Transit Accounts”; 
(r) 
“Trusteeship Agreement” means the agreement for the operation of 
UFEE referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement; 
(s) 
“UFEE” means Uruguay Fund for Energy Efficiency, to be established 
by the Recipient in a commercial bank operating in the territory of the Recipient under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes of facilitating development 
of and implementation of Sub-projects; 
(t) “URSEA” 
means 
Unidad Reguladora de los Servicios de Energía y 
Agua
,
the Recipient’s regulatory unit for energy and water services, a deconcentrated 
organ (
órgano desconcentrado
)
of
the Recipient, established pursuant to Law No. 17.598 
of December 13, 2002; 
(u) 
“UTE” means the 
Administración Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones
 
Eléctricas,
 the Recipient’s National Power Utility; and 
(v) 
“UTE-ESU” means the Energy Savings Unit of UTE. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equivalent to six million eight hundred and seventy-five thousand Dollars 
(US$6,875,000). 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for Sub-loan and Sub-grant disbursements and for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
Upon receipt of notification from the Bank allowing the establishment of 
the Transit Accounts, the Recipient may, for the purposes of channeling the funds from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to the Special Accounts, open and maintain in 
Dollars two separate transit accounts in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank (one for Part A and Part C of the Project, the other for Part B of 
the Project). All funds deposited by the Bank in Transit Accounts shall be: (i) deposited 
by the Recipient into the relevant Special Account(s) within no more than one working 
day after such deposit by the Bank; or (ii) returned to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
in case said funds are not transferred within the time specified in subparagraph (i) above.  
Transit Accounts are subject to the audit and record-keeping provisions of Article IV of 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall:  
(a) 
carry out Part A.1, A.4 and Part C of the Project through MIEM (acting 
through DNE);  
(b) 
carry out Part A.2 and A.3 of the Project through MIEM (acting through 
DNE) and making use of UFEE; and 
(c) 
cause UTE (pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement) to carry out Part B of 
the Project, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Operational Manual and 
with appropriate managerial, technical, administrative, financial, legal, ecological, 
Page  8
-
7
-
environmental, productive, social and conservation practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall enter into a subsidiary agreement for Project 
implementation with UTE on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, said 
agreement to include, 
inter alia:
 (i)  the obligation of UTE to, with respect to Part B of 
the Project: (A) provide the necessary counterpart funds; (B) assist the Recipient in the 
coordination of Project implementation and in complying with its obligations to the Bank 
under this Agreement; and (C) follow the provisions of the Operational Manual; and (ii) 
the obligation of UTE to assist the Recipient (through MIEM), as necessary, in the 
carrying out of Part C of the Project. 
(b) 
(i) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services (including those financed by Sub-loans and/or Sub-grants) 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall issue an operational manual, satisfactory to 
the Bank, containing
,
inter alia
,
specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the 
carrying out of the Project, including:
 
(i) a model for the Trusteeship Agreement; (ii) 
requirements for the selection, approval and implementation of Sub-projects; (iii) 
selection criteria for the Beneficiaries; (iv) financial management and procurement 
procedures for the Project; (v) environmental safeguards applicable to Parts A.3 and B.2 
of the Project; and (vi) model formats for the progress reports referred to in Section 3.08 
(b) of this Agreement. 
(b) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Recipient shall operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation, a Project Management Unit (PMU) with a structure, functions 
Page  9
-
8
-
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the 
PMU to coordinate, monitor and supervise the carrying out of the Project.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PMU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a Project coordinator and assisted by adequate professional 
and administrative staff (including a procurement officer and a financial and 
administrative officer), in numbers and with experience and qualifications acceptable to 
the Bank, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.06.  The Recipient shall maintain until the completion of the Project a 
steering committee with responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank including, 
inter alia
,
overall project oversight and coordination and policy setting, such committee 
to be comprised of representatives of DINAMA, MIEM, OPP, URSEA and UTE. 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall and shall cause UTE to: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan; and  
(c) 
carry out an in-depth Project review (the mid-term review), jointly with 
the Bank, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
Section 3.08. The Recipient shall and shall cause UTE to: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable the Recipient and 
UTE to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, for each year during the implementation of the Project, semestral reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the execution of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of each said report and setting out the measures 
Page  10
-
9
-
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 30 and May 31 of each year during 
the implementation of the Project or such later date as the Bank shall request, each report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
Section 3.09. The Recipient shall: (a) with respect to part A.2 of the Project, 
ensure that the amount paid to the providers of the goods or consultant services procured 
to carry out each Sub-project consist of at least: 33 percent paid by the Beneficiary and at 
most 67 percent financed by the Sub-grant; (b) with respect to part A.3 of the Project, 
ensure that the amount paid to the providers of the goods or consultant services procured 
to carry out each Sub-project consist of at least: 15 percent paid by the Beneficiary and at 
most 85 percent financed by the Sub-loan; and (c) ensure that such goods or consultant 
services are used by the Beneficiaries to carry out their respective Sub-project. 
Section 3.10. For the purposes of establishing and operating UFEE the Recipient 
shall enter into a trusteeship agreement with a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Trusteeship Agreement), which 
agreement shall include, 
inter alia
,
said commercial bank’s obligation to maintain, on 
behalf of the Recipient, records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures of Part A.2 and Part A.3 of the Project, in order to enable the Recipient 
to comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) 
the Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under the Trusteeship Agreement in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and 
(ii) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce the Trusteeship Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall and shall cause UTE to maintain or cause to 
be maintained a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect: (i) in the case of the Recipient, the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project (including the operation of the Transit 
Accounts); and (ii) in the case of UTE, its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations resources and expenditures related to Part B of the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall and shall cause UTE to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Sectio
n
(in the case of the Recipient) and UTE’s financial 
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) (in the case of UTE) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank) audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall and shall cause UTE to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
Page  12
-
11
-
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s and UTE’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall (for 
Parts A and C of the Project) and shall cause UTE (for Part B of the Project) to prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a  manner so as 
to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the UTE to 
carry out Part B of the Project. 
(b) 
UTE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement. 
(c) 
UFEE shall have stopped operating. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; 
(b) 
that the PMU been properly staffed as set forth in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;  
(c) 
that the UTE-ESU has been established in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
(d) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between UTE and 
the Recipient. 
Section 6.02. The date ____________________  is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Industry, Energy and Mining of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining 
Rincón 743 
Montevideo, Uruguay 11100 
 
Fax:  (598-2) 902-1245 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in __________________________________________________, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant   
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant  Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
to be financed
(1) 
Sub-grants under Part A 
500,000 
100% of Sub-grant  
 
of the Project 
 
amount disbursed  
 
through UFEE 
 
(2) 
Sub-loans  under   
1,975,000 
100% of Sub-loan 
 
Part A of the Project 
 
amount disbursed 
 
through UFEE 
 
(3) 
Goods 
1,360,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100
%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 77% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(4) Consultants' 
services 
1,600,000 
 
87
%
(5) 
Fund management services 
400,000 
87% 
 
(6) Incremental 
operating 
costs 
300,000 
87% 
 
(7) Unallocated 
740,000 
 
________
TOTAL 6,875,000
Page  17
-
16
-
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
(c) 
the term “Fund management services” means the services required by 
UFEE to start-up, market and administer the Sub-grants and Sub-loans; and 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures 
for Part C of the Project, which would not have been incurred absent the Project, for the 
maintenance and leasing of equipment, office supplies and other consumables, salaries of 
incremental PMU staff,  travel and accommodations. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) Category 1 and Category 2 unless the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that UFEE has been established; and (b) payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $250,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 2003 (but in no case earlier than twelve 
months immediately before the date of this Agreement). 
 4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request.  
B. Special 
Accounts
Page  18
-
17
-
1. 
Upon receipt of notification from the Bank allowing the establishment of the 
Special Accounts; the Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars: (a) a special deposit 
account for Part A.1, Part A.4 and Part C of the Project (Special Account A); (b) a special 
deposit account for Part A.2 and Part A. 3 of the Project (Special Account B); and (c) a 
special deposit account for Part B of the Project (Special Account C); all in a commercial 
bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts 
have been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to 
be deposited into any of the Special Accounts, via the Transit Accounts, shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of any of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of any of the Special 
Accounts, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any of the Special Accounts:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for each of the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Page  19
-
18
-
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any of the Special 
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, 
the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into any of the Special 
Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any of the 
Special Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into any of the Special Accounts shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any of 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in any of the Special Accounts.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (a) the 
amount of $250,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into Special Account A; (b) the amount of $250,000 to be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into Special Account B; and (c) the 
amount of $185,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into Special Account C; all as pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish any of the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of any of the Special Accounts, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of any of the respective Special Accounts for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into any of the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any of the Special 
Accounts, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant  minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
Page  21
-
20
-
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in any of the Special Accounts as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into any of the Special Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into any of the Special Accounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to 
such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to increase consumer demand for and competitive 
supply of energy efficient goods and services, contributing to: (a) improved productivity 
of energy use; (b) reduced reliance of the Reci
pient’s economy on imported electricity 
and fossil fuels; and (c) reduced emissions from the energy sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Energy Efficiency Market Development
1. 
Creation of an enabling environment for energy investment, including: (a) 
drafting of the necessary policies and regulations to promote energy efficiency; (b) design 
and implementation of a training and capacity building program for various stakeholders 
on energy efficiency, including the design of a best practice program and the carrying out 
of technical and commercial assessments; (c) design and implementation of a labeling 
and standards program including the implementation of a voluntary energy efficiency 
seal for main household appliances, lighting equipment, building thermal envelopes and 
industrial equipment; (d) design and implementation of standard contractual instruments 
to support ESCOs; and (e) provision of training. 
2. 
Provision of Sub-grants to creditworthy Beneficiaries to cost-share with the 
Beneficiary  up to 67 percent of the project development studies to develop proposals for 
energy efficiency Sub-projects. 
3. 
Provision of Sub-loans to creditworthy Beneficiaries to finance up to 85 percent 
of energy efficiency investments that meet the objectives of the Project. 
4. 
Provision of management services to UFEE, including technical assistance and 
training, the carrying out of promotional and public dissemination campaigns, and the 
technical, financial and environmental review of proposals for project development 
studies and Sub-projects. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part B
:
Utility Based Energy Efficiency Services
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment (as necessary) for the 
establishment and operation of an energy service unit within UTE. 
2. 
Development and implementation of an energy efficiency investment program, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(a) provision of energy efficient equipment to residential and 
commercial customers in selected areas including, 
inter alia
,
efficient lighting, water 
heaters, and other energy efficient equipment; (b) installation of new municipal lighting 
equipment in selected municipalities; (c) reduction of loses and increases in end-use 
efficiency and payment levels in poor urban areas; (c) provision of efficient modern 
energy supplies to low income rural customers using solar home systems; and (d) any 
other energy efficiency investments that meet the criteria established in the Operational 
Manual. 
Part C
:
Project Management
Strengthening the institutional, administrative, financial, procurement, and 
technical capabilities of the PMU to carry out its obligations under the Project (including 
the audit services required under this Agreement). 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Commercial 
Practices
Procurement of goods financed by Sub-loans and/or Sub-grants may be carried 
out in accordance with established commercial practices acceptable to the Bank pursuant 
to paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
A
plan setting forth the contracts for the goods required to carry out the Project 
during the initial period of at least 12 months shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of  Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Such 
plan shall list the proposed methods for procurement of each contract, as permitted under 
this Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement, and the related Bank review procedures.  The 
Borrower shall update such plan annually or as needed throughout the duration of the 
project, always covering the next 12 months period of project implementation.  Any 
revision proposed to such plan shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval.  
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said Appendix 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods 
to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two (2) contracts to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of the supplier, or the execution of such 
contract under shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of such contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  27
-
26
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Page  28
-
27
-
Services rendered by consulting firms under Part C of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $15,000 per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Commercial 
Practices
Services for environmental and technical review under Part A of the project and 
estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, as well as services financed 
by Sub-loans and/or Sub-grants, may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3.12 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and not exceeding in the aggregate $900,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
Services for energy efficiency labeling and standards program under Part A.1(c) 
of the Project, and not exceeding in the aggregate $400,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Such plan shall set forth: (a) the 
particular contracts for consulting services required to carry out the project during an 
initial period of 12 months; (b) the proposed methods for selection of consultant services; 
and (c) related Bank review procedures.  The plan shall be updated  annually or as needed  
throughout the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
Page  29
-
28
-
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured under Part B of this Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and (ii) each contract for the employment of consulting firms procured under Part 
C.5 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
procured under Part C.1 of this Section; and (ii) each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms procured under Part C.2 of this Section, the shortlist and terms of 
reference of the consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent 
or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, 
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent , the shortlist and the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
WB77786 
M:\URUGUAY\841-Energy Efficiency\GEF Grant Agreement.doc
 
