                                Documentof
                               TheWorldBank

                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                   48693



                              PROJECTPAPER


                          ONRESTRUCTURINGTHE


                  URUGUAYENERGYEFFICIENCYPROJECT




                               March15,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
UruguayCountryUnit
Latin America andthe CaribbeanRegion


                   Uruguay Energy Efficiency Project Restructuring
                                   PROJECT PAPER

                                     DATA SHEET


Country: Oriental Republic of Uruguay          Sector Manager: SusanGoldmark
Project Name: Energy Efficiency                Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg




               I 2006         I2007           I2008        I 2009         I2010
Annual          0.13           0.85            3.40          1.40           1.1
Cumulative      0.13           0.98            4.38          5.78           6.88




Have these been approved by Bank management?
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?




Local Sources of Borrowing Country
Sub-recipient (UTE)
                                                                                   21.83




                                             2


                  UruguayEnergyEfficiencyProjectRestructuring
                                  PROJECTPAPER


1 Introduction
1.1     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Regional Vice Presidentto introduce
changes inthe Uruguay Energy EfficiencyProject (P068124) (the Project) and amend the
Project's GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TF053298) (the Grant Agreement). The
proposed changes include: (i)   establishing the Uruguay Fund for Energy Efficiency
(UFEE) as a guarantee fund instead of as an investment fund; (ii)         recruiting the
Corporacidn Nacional de Desarrollo (CND, a government-owned non-banking financial
entity) as the UFEE Trustee and asset manager; and (iii)      disbursing the GEF grant
financing for the UFEE in one payment to capitalize UFEE. These changes are essential
for the successful implementation of the UFEE, as an instrument for energy efficiency
investments by enterprises and businesses - which i s one of the key expected outcomes
of the Project.

1.2    As per the guidelines on processing restructuring of investment projects, the
proposed restructuring falls under the category of `second order restructuring" as it
involves significant changes in the project design and disbursement procedures, which
however do not affect the project development objectives or associatedoutcome targets.


2    BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring
2.1    The Project was approved by the Board on August 13,2004 and became effective
on January 28, 2005. The Project's Development Objective (PDO) is to increase the
demand for and competitive supply of energy efficiency (EE) goods and services,
contributing to: (a) improved efficiency of energy use, (b) reduced reliance of the
Uruguayan economy on imported electricity and fuels; and (c) reduced emissions from
the energy sector.

2.2     The Project consists of three components: 1) energy efficiency market
development; 2) utility-based energy efficiency services; and 3) Project management.
The first component, implemented by the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining
(MIEM),aims to strengthenthe marketfor energy efficiencygoods and services, through
the development of policies and regulations, a labeling and standard program, and
training and capacity buildingactivities to promote energy efficiency, as well as through
the establishment of an energy efficiency fund to facilitate investment in energy
efficiency by businesses, industriesandenergy services companies (ESCOs). The second
component, to be implementedby Usinas and Trasmisiones Ele`ctricas (UTE), Uruguay's
government-owned electric utility, supports demand side management and energy
efficiency investments by UTE, and the establishment of an energy efficiency service
unit within UTE, as well as the electrification of dispersedlow-income ruralpopulations
through solar photovoltaic systems. The third component provides support to Project
management by the MIEM. Total project cost at appraisal was US$ 21.2 million to be



                                             3

financed by a US$ 6.9 million GEF grant, U$0.7 million by the Borrower, US$7.5
million by UTEand US$6.1 millionby investors supportedby the UFEE.

2.3      After a slow start due essentially to the elections and change of authorities in
2004-05, Project implementation has steadily improved since the Project's launch
workshop in September2005. The latest supervision mission carried out in October 2006
rated the Project's development objectives and implementation progress as moderately
satisfactory. The Project, still at an early stage, i s moving - albeit at a slow pace. Under
the Project's first component, the labeling and standards program is under way, public
dissemination and training programs are on schedule, the Project's website i s operational
and the revised design of the UFEE has been completed. Under the Project's second
component, the consultancy for the design of UTE-EE unit's detailed business plan has
been awarded and the unit i s working on the implementation of programs for improving
street lighting in 3 cities enhancing energy efficiency in the residential and commercial
sectors and in poor neighborhoods and increasing decentralized electrification coverage
through renewable energy use. Under the Project's third component, MIEM's Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is performingefficiently. Grant disbursements are still low as
the Project i s in the phase of preparing and contracting consultancy services and EE
projects.

2.4      The proposed restructuring would allow the swift implementation of the UFEE, in
a manner fit with the new reality of Uruguay's banking sector - an unforeseen event at
the time of Project appraisal. The restructuring i s essential to achieve an important
outcome of the Project, Le. the actual increase in energy efficiency investments by
enterprises andbusinesses inUruguay, which will result in a reduction in C02 emissions.
The Project initially envisaged the fund as an investment fund for direct co-financing of
energy efficiency sub-projects. This structure was adequate when liquidity levels were
low, at the time of Project preparation. At the present time, the financing system i s in
better shape and liquidity levels are higher. The proposed guarantee scheme would be
better adaptedto actual demandof commercial banks, it would reduce commercial banks'
lending risk to energy efficiency investors (that are expected to be mostly small and
medium enterprises (SMEs), often facing difficulties in terms of credit rating) and it
would not distort the functioning of the bankingsector.


3   Proposedchanges
3.1      As requestedby the MIEMand supported by a comprehensive report prepared by
independent consultants', the proposed restructuring would entail three changes:

         (i)    The establishment of an energy efficiency guarantee fund, instead of an
                investment fund as initially envisaged, to provide guarantees on loans
                grantedby commercial banks to enterprises or energy services companies
                (Escos) to finance energy efficiency investments (and feasibility studies to


'DiseAo  del Fondo de Eficiencia Energe`tica,Danielde SantaAna and JimenaBaldomir, November 2006


                                                   4

               prepare such investments), in order to reflect changes in the situation of
               Uruguay's banking sector.

        (ii) The recruitment of Corporucidn Nucionul de Desurrollo (CND) as
               UFEE's trustee, as this option presents comparative advantages compared
               to the fund's administration by other financial entities.

        (iii) ThedisbursementofGEFgrantfinancing for the UFEEinone single
               payment to capitalize the fund - instead of disbursing only against incurred
               expenditure, as guarantee issuancerequires the corresponding capital to be
               on the balance sheet of the fund administrator.

3.2     There would be no changes inthe Project development objectives nor inthe scope
of the Project. Actually, the changes should result in exceeding the Project's outcome
targets set at appraisal time in terms of energy efficiency investments by the private
sector.

Implementing Agencies. The proposed restructuring does not alter MIEM's or UTE'S
responsibilities for Project implementation. It establishes CND as UFEEtrustee and asset
manager. Responsibilities and obligations of the UFEE trustee will be clearly stated in a
trust fund agreement to be signed between CND and MIEM, which i s under preparation
and will be a condition of effectiveness of the amendment to the GrantAgreement.

Financing mechanism:The financing mechanism for the energy efficiency fund will be
changed from an investment scheme to a guarantee scheme, as explained above. The
amount of GEF financing for the fund will remain unchanged, i.e. US$1,975,000 for
guarantees to loans by commercial banks for energy efficiency sub-projects, plus
US$500,000 for guarantees to loans for sub-project feasibility studies; the latter
guarantees would be activated in the case that financing for said Projects does not
materialize.

Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements: Current disbursement
arrangements will be modified for the UFEE, as described under change iii)above, as it
i s proposed that GEF funds for the UFEE be disbursed in one single payment instead of
against expenditures for sub-projects as they are incurred.
A new disbursement category 8 - "Transfers to UFEE' will be added for withdrawal of
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant for the guarantee fund. As management services
to UFEE (formerly Part A.4 of the Project, Part A.3 of the Project under the proposed
amendment) are consultants' services, the amount under category 5 "Fund Management
Services" will be merged under category 4 Consultants' Services. Categories 1and 2 for
sub-grants and sub-loans under the project (Parts A2 and A3 in the original Project
description) have been left blank as sub-loans and sub-grants will not be financed from
the GEF grant proceeds; however, the criteria and conditions for eligibility of sub-loans
will be specified in the revised Operational Manual annexed to UFEE Trust Fund
Agreement. See the proposed revised Schedule 1 of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreement below.



                                             5

Specific financial management arrangements for the UFEE will be established in the
UFEE section of the Operational Manual that will form part of the Agreement to be
signed between MlEM and CND. These arrangements will concern essentially the
conditions and rules to be followed by CND regarding the financial management of the
UFEE in accordance with Bank guidelines and the application of guarantees from the
UFEEandthe investment of UFEEfunds inaprudential manner.
Financial management arrangements for the other components of the Project will remain
unchanged, as described in the project's Operational Manual, which will be revised only
to include a section related to UFEE. The project has no pending financial management
issues.


                                                 Amount of the
                                                GEFTrust Fund
                                                Grant Allocated        % ofexpendituresto
                                                 (Expressedi                befinanced
                                                    Dollars)

1- [Intentionally Left Blank]

2 - [Intentionally Left Blank]
                        __        __                                      100%of foreign
                                                                      expenditures, 100%of
                                                                      localexpenditures (ex-
3 - Goods under Part B of the Project                   1.360.000      factory cost) and 77%
                                                                        of local expenditures
                                                                           for other items
                                                                          procured locally
4 -Consultant's   services under PartsAl, A3,
B andC of the Project                                   2.000.000                87%

5 - [Intentionally Left Blank]

6 2 Incremental operating costs                            300.000               87%

7 -Unallocated                               I             740.000

8 - Transfers to the UFEE                               2.475.000               100%

                   TOTAL                                6.875.000



Procurement: CND's eligibility and sole source selection i s subject to WB guidelines as
CND's remuneration will be paid in part with income generated from the investment of
UFEE's capital.




                                           6

CND i s eligible inline with Section 1.10 (b) of the 1999 Consultant Guidelines, since: (i)
CND i s a legally andfinancially autonomous entity - as it i s a corporation with audited
financial statements; (ii)     it operatesunder a legal regime (public non-Government law,
Derecho Pu'blico no estutul) that affords private parties recoursethrough the Appeals
Tribunal and subjects its contracts to normal private law2; and (iii)          it is anindependent
corporation, i.e. its managementdoes not report directly to the Borrower (as it responds
to an independent Board, andits financial intermediation operations are controlled by the
autonomous Central Bank).
CND's sole source recruitment i sjustified as: (i)        the recruitment of a commercial private
bank cannot be envisagedfor possible conflict of interest andconfidentiality reasons; (ii)
among other public financial entities, CND has a significant comparative advantage for
this assignment, as it is the only entity by law that can issue guarantees that can be
accounted by commercial banks (garantius computubles); and (iii)                      this is a small
assignment. See further details in Section 4(iv) below.
MIEMwill follow proceduressatisfactory to the Bank for establishing the remuneration
of CND. This will involve negotiating a joint technical and financial proposal by CND,
taking into account data on remuneration of fund managers for similar funds and
contexts. The remuneration will combine fixed and incentive-based parts, and would in
principle include: i)an administration fee (estimated at around 1% of the UFEE capital,
for each year of administration) - financed from UFEE's revenues from investment of
UFEE funds, ii)a guarantee emission fee (estimated at around 2% per annum of the
amount of guarantees issued) - financed by the commercial banks benefiting from the
guarantees, and iii)a percentage (estimated at around 20%) of the revenues from
investment of UFEE funds. The parameters and levels of CND remuneration were
analyzed in the above referred consultant report and will be reviewed by WB specialists
during the process of CND recruitment. Inthe consultant report, it is estimated that the
total cost of CND services paid from UFEEwould amount to about US$42,000 per year,
which would be lower than the income generatedfrom the investment of UFEE's capital.
The amount of CND remuneration from UFEE has been capped in the amended Grant
Agreement (Section 3.1O(a)(iii) and Schedule 3, Section II.C.5).
Procurement of goods and services for sub-projects benefiting from guarantees will be
done following Section 3.12 of the January 1999 World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Section 3.12 of the January 1999
World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, which refer to procurement in loans to financial intermediaries. The 1999
guidelines will remain applicable to the Project as established in the Grant Agreement.
These provisions will be included in the Agreement between CND and MIEMand in the
Operational Manual.
The procurement of services for Part A.3 of the Project under the proposed amendment
(formerly Part A.4 of the Project) (provision of management services to UFEE) will
remain under MIEM's responsibility through the PIU. The terms of reference for
recruitments under this part of the project will be prepared by the PIU and the CND,
following procedures to be establishedinthe Operational Manual.


 This is also confirmed inthe Uruguay Country Financial Accountability Assessment,June 29,2005,
which states inparagraph 2.21 that: "PersonasPliblicas No Estatales....usually perform noncommercial
activities under private sector law...."


                                                   7

Reporting. In line with current practice for projects that do not use report-based
disbursements, Financial MonitoringReports (FMR) will be required on abi-annual basis
instead on a quarterly basis. T h i s w i l l apply as well to CND reports with respect to
UFEE.

Closing Date: The closing date of the project will remain June 30, 2010. The
implementation plan of UFEE, including levels of guarantee granting and financial
projections have been agreed upon with MIEM,on the basis of the analyses contained in
the above-mentioned report by independent consultants, and are consistent with the
Project closing date.


4    Analysis


4.1     The proposed changes do not have a major effect on the original economic,
financial, technical, institutionalor social aspects of the project as appraised.

i/ Economic: Selection criteria of energy efficiency sub-projects to ensure these sub-
projects are economically and financially viable and technically, commercially,
managerially and environmentally sound will remain unchanged. Application of these
criteria will be distributed between the MIEM, CND and commercial banks as per
provisions to be spelled out in the revised Operational Manual. Because of the additional
leverage provided by the guarantee fund, economic benefits in terms of avoided C02
emissions are expected to be higher on a yearly basis than those estimated at Project
appraisal, which would compensate the shorter implementation period of UFEE and
result in total investment in energy efficiency projects under UFEE slightly higher than
estimates at Project appraisal (see Section 5 below).

ii/Financial: UFEEwillfunctionasaguaranteefacilityfor partoftheloansgrantedby
commercial banks to enterprises and business for (i)          investments in energy efficiency
sub-projects; and (ii)   feasibility studies for these projects. The sub-loans for feasibility
studies would be refinanced into the loans from commercial banks when the
corresponding investment sub-projects would materialize, and would be repaid by
UFEE's guarantees in the contrary case. Detailed financial projections of UFEE were
prepared by independent consultants and reviewed to the Bank's satisfaction.

iii/Technical: TheenergyefficiencyprojectsguaranteedunderUFEEwillusethe same
technologies as foreseen at Project appraisal.

iv/ Institutional: CND is proposed as UFEE's trustee and asset manager. It i s habilitated
to fulfill these two functions, as per CND's Law3and Uruguay's Trust Fund Law4. The
selection of a non-banking financial institution to administer UFEE places all banking


 Law No. 15.785,publishedon December23, 1985
 Ley de Fideicornisosy Decretos Reglarnentarios, Law No. 17.703,Publishedon November4, 2003


                                                  8

institutions on a level playing field to grant loans for energy financing and it avoids
possible conflicts of interest (between guarantee and lending operations, if a commercial
bank was selected to administer UFEE) as well as issues of confidentiality of information
from other commercial banks that would not allow proper reporting on lendingfor energy
efficiency projects. Furthermore, among non-banking financial entities in Uruguay, CND
i s the only one by law that can issue guarantees that can be accounted by commercial
banks (garantias computubles), which will reduce provisioning needs on guaranteed
loans and thus lower the overall cost of energy efficiency lending.
CND's strategic planfor 2006 - 2010, that was approved by CND's Boardchairedby the
Ministry of Economy, includes the management by CND of third parties' assets as a
fiduciary agent, as well as the consolidation of CND's current activities as second-tier
non-banking financial entity for SME's, and the establishment of a national guarantee
fund. This strategic plan is fully consistent with the proposed role of CND as UFEE's
trustee and asset manager.
An evaluation of CND's capacity, organization ands financial position has confirmed its
eligibility to act as UFEETrustee and Asset Manager. CND's financial positionhas been
improving since 2004. It has an adequate organization, experience and capacity to
administer trust funds and manage financial assets, as well as adequate financial
managementand internal controlprocedures.
         Organization & Stafs CND i s structured under four different departments: (i)
         financial and risk management, (ii)    administrative and operations, (iii) products
         andservices, and (iv) small andmediumsize enterprises. All of these departments
         are headed by a department manager and report to the general manager who in
         turn reports directly to the board of directors. The board of directors that is in
         charge since 2005 has approved a new strategic plan for CND. Within the
         strategic plan framework, positive in-depth changes have been made to CND
         organizational structure in order to gain institutional efficiency and effectiveness.
         Department managers have professional expertise and previous experience in the
         private sector. The financial andrisk managementdepartment will be incharge of
         the capital investments of the UFEE while the small and medium size enterprises
         department will be responsible for operational guarantee aspects. Both
         departmentsreport to CND's General Manager, who will exercise control over the
         UFEE.
     0   CND Accounting and Financial Reporting. CND's accounting office maintains
         accounts and records in its own information and multi-currency accounting
         system (CND's Annual Report). The accounting software has been reviewed and
         found acceptable. All the transactions are processedin the accounting system and
         there i s an adequate segregation of duties among who perform the different tasks
         in the finance department. CND follows the accrual basis of accounting and the
         International Accounting Standards (IAS) are adopted for the preparation of the
         entity's annual financial statements. CND audited financial statements for the
         year 2004 and 2005 were submitted to the Bank. Both financial statements were
         audited by international private audit firms.
     0   Internal control & Internal Audit. An internal control system in CND i s currently
         in place. The internal control system comprises approval and authorization
         controls, definition of conflict of interest and segregation of duties in preparation



                                                9

         of bank accounts reconciliation. Internal audit function in CND i s performed by
         one qualified staff with technical capacity to fulfill the internal control function.
         Internalaudit reports directly to the board of directors.

Environmental and social: Environmental screening procedures and requirements, as
contemplated at Project appraisal, will be applied to all sub-projects as a condition for
benefiting from UFEE's guarantees. These procedures will be further detailed in the
UFEE section of the Operational Manual and referred to in the Agreement between
MIEM and CND. The revised design of the UFEE was based on consultations with
financial institutions in Uruguay and potential investors in EE projects. The public
participatory and communicatiodpromotionactivities for the UFEEwill be implemented
as contemplated at Project appraisal. The proposed changes do not raise the
environmental category of the Project or trigger new environmental safeguard policies.
Only category B or C projects will be guaranteed by the UFEE.MIEMwill be in charge
of environmental screening of projects, as currently established in the Operational
Manual.

4.2      The proposed restructuring involves no exceptions to World Bank's policies. The
upfront disbursement of GEF financing for the UFEE i s justified by analogy to a
previously granted exception to the application of the relevant provisions of the Bank's
disbursement and trust fund policies, which hadbeenapproved by a Memorandum of the
Managing Director in the case of GEF-supported conservation funds. Inthat occasion5,
the exception was granted "for all GEF-financed and co-financed projects in which GEF
funds would be disbursed by the Bank to capitalize conservation funds", and the
memorandum requesting the exception underscored the parallelism to "GEF projects
related to setting up and capitalizing guarantee funds for climate change operations
[which] may also raise questions related to the Bank's disbursement policies". This
Project component is a guarantee fund for energy efficiency projects with direct benefits
interms of climate change.

4.3      The proposed change in disbursement provisions for UFEE would be made in
compliance with the five conditions established in paragraph 7 of the aforementioned
memo, which will be incorporated into the amendmentto the grant agreement as follows:
            a) The guarantee fundwill be subject to audits;
            b) The use of the guaranteefund will be subject to provisions spelled out in a
            Trust Fund Agreement to be signed between MIEM and CND (including
            provisions from a section in the Operational Manual containing all the UFEE
            details), following precedents of agreements for other guarantee funds under
            WB or GEF-financed projects (e.g. the BulgariaEnergy Efficiency Fund); the
            signing of the Trust Fund Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of
            the grant amendment; the above mentioned consultant report includes first
            drafts of the Trust Fund Agreement and the UFEE section of the Operational
            Manual.


  See memo of March 15, 2002 from Ian Johnson, Vice President, ESSD, to Shengman Zhang, Managing
Director, MDS.



                                               10

              c) CND's General Manager will be responsible for the administration of the
              guarantee fund. The qualifications and experience of the current General
              Manager have been found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
              d) The Bank will be consulted before changes in the General Manager's
              position, as the Grant Agreement will include a covenant which will require
              that the Recipient ensures that CND maintains a governance structure,
              managerial personnel and operating procedures acceptable to the Bank for
              purposes of the UFEEthroughout the course of Project implementation and at
              least three years after the Closing Date.
              e) CND's General Manager will exercise control over the use of the guarantee
              fund.


5    ExpectedOutcomes
5.1      The proposed restructuring does not affect the Project's Development Objectives
or associated cumulated outcome indicators. The Project Development Objective will
continue to be the one presentedin section 3 above. The Project outcomes inrelation with
the energy efficiency fund consist of increased investment in energy efficiency by
enterprises and businesses, with resulting reductions in COz emissions. These outcome
indicators will remain unchanged, except that UFEE financing will now consist of
guarantees that will allow leveraging higher loan amounts from commercial banks than
under the initial investment fund scheme. As a result, the cumulated cost of energy
efficiency sub-projects supported under UFEE will be higher (US$7.5 million) under the
restructured project than under the initialscheme (US$6.8 million). See table below, with
target estimates supported by the above referred report by independent consultants.
These targets will be confirmed and included in the trust fund agreement between MIEM
andCND.


                       riiia11ce iitdicators

                                       FY               2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Cum.
Total cost of EE projects under UFEE PAD                 0.3  0.6   1.2  1.3 1.7  1.7  6.8
 $_million                                                         1  x  1.5  -3-  3   7.5

Amount of UFEE financ-ing
     "   x x x                             PAD p n s j   0.1                           G.1
 $ million                                 Now (guars.)$                0.6  1.5  1.5  3.G

 No. of feasibility studies financed                      10  20 . 20    20  20   20    90
                                                                         50  4         110



6    Benefitsand Risks
6.1      Without the proposed changes, it would be much more difficult to achieve the
outcomes linked to UFEE's successful implementation, Le., increased energy efficiency



                                                   11

investment by enterprises and businesses and increased number o f ESCOs involved in
energy efficiency financing.

6.2      The table below indicates UFEE-related risks and mitigation measures that were
identified at the time of appraisal and shows (inbold) how this assessment i s affected by
the proposed restructuring.

Risk
UFEEfunds mismanaged
and funds used for purpose              legal agreement governedby new Law of Fideicomiso,
not intended                            which requiresexternal audits

                                        Same measures, plus conditions described at end of above
                          M             section 4
Insufficient demand for   M             Contingent grant funds available to share feasibility study
energy efficiency .
investmentprojects
financing by UFEE

                          M             Same measures, plus: (i)larger number of banks involved
                                        inEEfinancing (several commercial bankscompared to
                                        only one UFEEadministrator under the initial design);
                                        (ii)guaranteeschemebetteradaptedtopositionof
                                        commercial banks and to SMEs' constraints
Highdefault rate on UFEE   S            Commercial bank evaluatescredit riskunder Trustee
loans                                   Agreement
                                        Detailed criteria for approval of equity, loan or guarantee

                                        Same measures (implemented by commercial banks, not
                           S            by UFEE's Trustee), plus guarantees to apply to part of
                                        the loans
UFEE's asset              M           IIAgreement between CND and MIEMto establish
management not                          prudential and efficient practices for UFEE's asset
performedefficiently                    management




                                              12

