                          62976 v1
           Document of
         The World Bank


                                     Report No:




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

              ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                OF
   ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
  ( TF053298) DATED MAY 13, 2004



            TO THE

REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY


           June 1, 2011
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




CND    Corporación Nacional para el Desarrollo
       (National Development Corporation)

SiGa   Sistema Nacional de Garantías para Empresas
       (National System of Guarantees for Companies)

UFEE   Uruguay Guarantee Trust Fund for Energy Efficiency

UTE    Administración Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Eléctricas
       (Electricity Public Utility)




        Regional Vice President:      Pamela Cox
              Country Director:       Penelope J. Brook
               Sector Manager:        Philippe Charles Benoit
             Task Team Leader:        Lucía Spinelli
                         URUGUAY
                   Energy Efficiency Project

                         CONTENTS

                                                    Page
SUMMARY
PROJECT STATUS
PROPOSED CHANGES
APPRAISAL SUMMARY                     
ANNEX RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING    
   
ANNEX REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS        
ANNEX EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE       
                         ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER


SUMMARY
The purpose of this project restructuring is to: (i) incorporate the Uruguay Guarantee
Trust Fund for Energy Efficiency (UFEE) to a national system of guarantees (SiGa); (b)
reallocate the grant proceeds; and (c) to convert the Technical Assistance Sub-loans
currently financed under the Project into Technical Assistance Sub-grants.


PROJECT STATUS

The Project is under implementation and scheduled to close on December 31, 2011. No
additional extension will be given. Energy Efficiency is an important priority for the
Borrower, who has remained committed to the Project and shown significant results to
date, including: (a) a labeling system in place with more than 45 technical standards
issued and 3 compulsory systems already under implementation; (b) an energy efficiency
law was issued so as to assure government commitment, the sustainability of the work
done and foster energy efficiency investments (c) energy efficiency investments
implemented by UTE, the electricity public utility, in many public and private institutions
and (d) multiple outreach and education activities and more than 2,400 people trained in
different technical issues related with energy efficiency. With the restructuring, the
Project will be able to foster the UFEE allowing the implementation of energy efficiency
projects financed by private sector.

The proposed restructuring is justified, based on the results the Project has achieved to
date and on the Project’s potential to meet its development objectives. While the Project
faced some difficulties in its early stages of implementation, it is now performing well.
The Project objectives continue to be achievable, the performance of the implementing
agency is satisfactory, the Project is not subject to an ongoing suspension of
disbursements and, in accordance with OP 13.30 paragraph 6.c., all financial audits are
up to date.


PROPOSED CHANGES

   •   Institutional arrangements


Incorporation of the UFEE to the SiGa

The UFEE, which is currently administrated by CND, has been established, funded and
put into operation. Nevertheless, results to date has not been optimal, mainly due to the
fact that the financial market is offering better financing conditions that those offered by
the UFEE. In addition, products offered by the financial market usually have simpler and
more manageable procedures than those established for the UFEE.

Moreover, according to a Resolution issued by the Central Bank of Uruguay, guarantees
shall only be considered computable collaterals provided they are incorporated to the
SiGa. The SiGa is composed by trust funds that are administrated by a unique Trustee,
CONAFIN AFISA, which is 100% owned by CND.

Then, following this reasoning, unless the UFEE is incorporated to the SiGa,
Intermediate Financing Institutions will not consider UFEE’s guarantees sufficient and
will require potential beneficiaries to present additional guarantees, turning the fund
useless.

It is important to remark that SiGa’s Rules establish that any trust fund that becomes part
of it must provide USD 500,000 to a Reinsurance Contingency Fund (Fondo de
Previsiones de Reaseguros), which operates as a second line guarantee. This means that
UFEE’s funds will be better secured.

Finally, the incorporation of the UFEE to the SiGa is technically sound from the
Supervision Team standpoint.




   •   Reallocations

Proceeds are proposed to be reallocated as shown in the matrix below, in order to adjust
the amounts foreseen for each category to the actual costs of Goods, Consultants’
services, Operating Costs and Works that are being procured under the Project.


  Category of Expenditure              Allocation                  % of Financing
    Current       Revised         Current      Revised          Current      Revise
(1)            (1)
[intentionally [intentionally
left blank]    left blank]
(2)            (2)
[intentionally [intentionally
left blank]    left blank]
(3) Goods      (3) Goods         1,608,114      1,621,993      100% of       100% of
                                                                foreign       foreign
                                                             expenditures, expenditures,
                                                               100% of       100% of
                                                                 local         local
                                                             expenditures expenditures
                                                              (ex-factory   (ex-factory
                                                               cost) and     cost) and
                                                             77% of local 77% of local
                                                           expenditures   expenditures
                                                             for other      for other
                                                               items          items
                                                             procured       procured
                                                              locally        locally
(4)              (4)              2,227,799   2,155,009         87%            87%
Consultants’     Consultants’
services         services
under Part       under Part
A.1, A.3, B      A.1, A.3, B
and C            and C
(5)              (5)
[intentionally   [intentionally
left blank]      left blank]
(6)              (6)              404,087     548,282          87%            87%
Incremental      Incremental
Operating        Operating
Costs            Costs
(7)              (7)
[Intentionally   [Intentionally
left blank]      left blank]
(8)              (8)              2,475,000   2,475,000
Transfers to     Transfers to
the UFEE         the UFEE
(9) Works        (9) Works        160,000      74,716          87%            87%



   •   Others (please specify)

Conversion of Technical Assistance Sub-loans into Technical Assistance Sub-grants

The Project currently finances up to 67% of the cost of project development studies for
investment Subprojects, which are eligible to be guaranteed by UFEE and may either be
refinanced through an Investment Sub-Loan or repaid by UFEE if no Investment
Subproject results.

The system is not working as expected under this scheme: guarantees are not being
requested by beneficiaries and the two commercial banks that currently operate the UFEE
have no incentives to promote this product. In addition, these guarantees are being
managed as traditional loans, generating high transaction costs for beneficiaries.

In order to turn this fund operative, the Government is requesting to convert said
Technical Assistance Sub-loans into Technical Assistance Sub-grants to be managed
directly by CND.

The Supervision Team concurs with this view and has assessed that this change will have
a positive impact in the Project implementation.
Incorporation of “works” to the Procurement Section of the Grant Agreement

A new disbursement category “Works under Part A of the Project” was incorporated to
the disbursement table upon the Recipient’s request in the Third Amendment to the Grant
Agreement. Nevertheless, the change was not reflected accordingly in the Procurement
Section. Under the propose restructuring, the Procurement Section of the Grant
Agreement will be amended to reflect that change.
