The World Bank                                                      1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT               Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                               U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                             June 23, 2011
                                                        CONFORMED COPY

            Mr. Roberto Kreimerman
            Minister of Industry, Energy and Mining
            Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining
            Paysandú esq. Libertador Brig.
            Gral. Lavalleja, Piso 4
            Montevideo, Uruguay


                            Re:     URUGUAY: Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund
                                    Energy Efficiency Project (Grant No. TF053298)
                                    Fourth Amendment to the Grant Agreement

            Dear Sir:

                    Please refer to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the Grant Agreement) between the
            República Oriental del Uruguay (the Recipient) and the International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development acting as Implementing Agency of the GEF (the Bank), dated August 13, 2004,
            as amended on June 22, 2006, March 28, 2007 and April 13, 2010 with respect to the above-
            captioned Project. Please note that capitalized terms used in this letter (the “Amendment Letter?)
            and not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Grant Agreement.

                    Pursuant to your letter of December 18, 2006, requesting an amendment to the Grant
            Agreement, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Grant Agreement as
            follows:

            1.      Section 1.02 of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to modify the following
                    definitions to read as follows:

                    (i)     “Investment Sub-loan? or “Sub-loans? means any financing: (i) made or
                            proposed to be made by a Financial Intermediary to a Beneficiary to: (A)
                            refinance up to 100% of a Technical Assistance Sub-loan which was used to
                            prepare such Investment Sub-project; and/or (B) finance up to 80 percent of the
                            costs of implementing an Investment Sub-project; and (ii) which is eligible to be
                            guaranteed by the UFEE; all in accordance with the criteria and procedures set
                            forth in the Operational Manual;?

                    (ii)    Technical Assistance Sub-grant? means any grant made or proposed to be made
                            by CND to a Beneficiary to finance up to 67 percent of the cost of project
                            development studies for an Investment Sub-project; all in accordance with the
                            criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual;




                                          RCA 248423.   WUI 64145     FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                 -2-




2.      Section 1.02 of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definition of “Sub-
loans? (and existing definitions are consequently renumbered to keep the alphabetical order).

3.      Section 1.02 of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to include the following
        definitions placed in alphabetical order, (and existing definitions are consequently
        renumbered to keep the alphabetical order):

        (i)      ““SIGA? means Sistema Nacional de Garantías para Empresas, the
                 Recipient’s Guarantee Agency, created pursuant to the Recipient’s Central
                 Bank’s Communication No. 2009-077, dated May 21, 2009.?

        (ii)     ““Technical Assistance Sub-grant Agreement? means the grant agreement
                 to be entered into by CND and a Beneficiary, on terms and conditions
                 satisfactory to the Bank.?

4. Section 3.03 (c) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:

        “(c) the UFEE?

5. Section 3.03 of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to include a subsection (d) to read as
   follows (as a result subsequent paragraphs are renumbered):

        “(d) Sub-grants; and?

6. Section 3.04 (a)(ii) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:

        “(ii)  criteria for the eligibility of: (A) Sub-loans to be guaranteed by UFEE;     and
        (B) Sub-grants;?

7. Sections 3.04 (a) (viii) and (a) (ix) of the Grant Agreement are hereby amended to read as
   follows:

        “(viii) environmental safeguards applicable to Sub-projects and Part B.2 of the Project;

          (ix)   model formats for the progress reports referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of this
                 Agreement; and

8. Section 3.04 (a) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to include a subsection (x) to
   read as follows:

        “(x)     guidelines for the carrying out of works under Part A of the Project.?

9. Section 3.09 (a) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:

         “(a) ensure that the amounts paid to the providers of the goods or consultant services
     procured to carry out each Technical Assistance Sub-project consist of at least: 33 percent
     paid by the Beneficiary and at most 67 percent financed by the Technical Assistance Sub-
     grant;?
                                               -3-



10. Section 3.10 (a) (ii) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to include a subsection (B) to
    read as follows (as a result subsequent paragraphs are renumbered):

        “(B) (1) enter into a Technical Assistance Sub-grant Agreement with each
        Beneficiary; and (2) thereafter transfer to the Beneficiary the Technical Assistance Sub-
        grants, all in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual.?

11. Section 3.10 (a)(ii) (C) of the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:

        “(C)    invest UFEE’s capital in accordance with instructions issued by the
        Recipient, which instructions shall be based on: (1) investment guidelines
        acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Operational Manual; and (2) the
        operational regulations of SIGA; and (3) instructions issued by the SIGA’s
        administrative council;?

12. The table on Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
    set forth in the Annex to this Amendment Letter.

13. The heading in Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

    “Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works?

14. Part B on Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

        “Part B: International Competitive Bidding

                Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
        procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
        Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.?

15. Part C.1 on Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

        ‘1.     National Competitive Bidding

                Goods and works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract
        may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
        paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.?

16. Part C.2 on Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

                “2.     Shopping

                        Goods and works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
                contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping
                                                -4-


                procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
                Guidelines.?

17. Part C.3 on Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

        “3.     Commercial Practices

                Procurement of goods and works : (a) financed by Sub-loans; or (b)        under
        Part B.2 (a) of the Project, may be carried out in accordance with established commercial
        practices acceptable to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines.?

18. Part D.1 on Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

                “1.     Procurement Planning

                 A plan setting forth the contracts for the goods and works required to carry out
        the Project during the initial period of at least 12 months shall be furnished to the Bank
        for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of Appendix 1 to the
        Guidelines. Such plan shall list the proposed methods for procurement of each contract,
        as permitted under this Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement, and the related Bank review
        procedures. The Recipient shall update such plan annually or as needed throughout the
        duration of the project, always covering the next 12 months period of project
        implementation. Any revision proposed to such plan shall be furnished to the Bank for
        its prior approval. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
        plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said Appendix
        1?

19. Part D.2 (a) on Section I of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as
    follows:

                “(a)    With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured in
        accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (ii) the first two contracts
        for goods and works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part
        C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
        shall apply.?

         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. Henceforward, all the provisions of the Grant
Agreement except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall remain in full force and
effect. This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an
original. The provisions set forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date
of the countersignature upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this
Amendment Letter.
                                             -5-


        Please also note that the approved Restructuring Paper dated June 1, 2011 will be
disclosed on the Bank’s external website.

                                      Very truly yours,

                             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                   By /s/ Penelope J. Brook
                                            Director
                               Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
                            Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:

REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

By:      /s/ Roberto Kreimerman
         Authorized Representative

Title:   Minister

Date:    July 15, 2011
                                             -6-


                                                                                       ANNEX

                                      Amount of the                    % of
                               GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated     Expenditures
      Category                     (Expressed in Dollars)         to be financed

(1)   [intentionally left blank]


(2)   [intentionally left blank]


(3)   Goods                                1,621,993            100% of foreign
                                                                expenditures,
                                                                100 % of local
                                                                expenditures
                                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                                and 77% of local
                                                                expenditures for
                                                                other items procured
                                                                locally

(4)   Consultants’ services                2,155,009            87%
      under Parts A.1, A.3,
      B and C of the Project

(5)   [intentionally left blank]

(6)   Incremental operating costs           548,282             87%

(7)   [intentionally left blank]

(8)   Transfers to the UFEE                2,475,000            100%

(9)   Works under Part A of the                                 87%
      Project                                74,716

                  TOTAL                    6,875,000
