                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR2288



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-53298)



                                      ON A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.88 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                     ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY

                                    FOR AN

                        ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT



                                  July 10, 2012




Latin America Sustainable Development Department
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2012
                            Currency Unit = Uruguayan Peso (Ur$)
                                   Ur$ 1.00 = US$ 0.0502
                                    US$ 1.00 = Ur$ 19.9
                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                        January 1–December 31
                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFAP     Pension Fund Administration                      MERCOSUR   South America’s Southern Cone Common Market
BROU     Banco de la República Oriental del Uruguay       MIEM       Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining
         (state-owned)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                      MW         Megawatt hour
CFL      Compact Fluorescent Lamp
CND      Corporación Nacional de Desarrollo               NGO        Non Governmental Organization
CO2      Carbon Dioxide                                   NOx        Nitrogen Oxides
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy                     NPV        Net Present Value
DINAMA   National Directorate of Environmental            OPP        Office of Planning and Budget
         Management
DNE      National Directorate of Energy                   PCD        Project Concept Document
DSM      Demand Side Management                           PID        Project Information Document
ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the    PJ         Penta Joule (1015 Joule)
         Caribbean
ECLM     Energy Conservation and Load Management          PMU        Program Management Unit
EE       Energy Efficiency                                SHS        Solar Home Systems
EPC      Energy Performance Contracting                   SIGA       Guarantee fund run by CND
ESCO     Energy Service Company                           Sox        Sulfur Oxides
ESU      Energy Savings Unit                              TA         Technical Assistance
GEF      Global Environmental Facility                    T&D        Transmission and Distribution
GHG      Green House Gases                                TOR        Terms of Reference
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                           TWh        Terawatt hour
GOU      Government of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay   UFEE       Uruguay Fund for Energy Efficiency
GWh      Gigawatt hour                                    UNDP       Unite Nations Development Program
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank                  UNFCCC     United Nations Framework Convention on
                                                                     Climate Change
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return                 UNIT       Technical Standards Institute of Uruguay
kW       Kilowatt                                         URSEA      Electricity and Water Service Regulation Office
kWh      kilowatt hour                                    UTE        Administración de Usinas y Transmisiones
                                                                     Eléctricas
ktoe     Thousand tons of oil equivalent                  WTI        West Texas Intermediate
ktpe     Thousands of tons of petroleum equivalent


                                 Vice President:          Hasan Tuluy
                              Country Director:           Penelope Brook
                                Sector Manager:           Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies
                           Project Team Leader:           Lucía Spinelli
                              ICR Team Leader             Fernando Lecaros
                                                  URUGUAY
                                            Energy Efficiency Project



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

   1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 13
   6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 16
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 36
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37
 MAP…………………………………………………………………………………….38
Basic Information
                                                                          Energy Efficiency
Country:                Uruguay                 Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P068124                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53298
ICR Date:               07/10/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          ORIENTAL
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          URUGUAY
Original Total
                        USD 6.88M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.82M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.82M
Environmental Category: F                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Direccion Nacional de Energía
 UTE - Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Transmisiones Electricas
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/30/2002     Effectiveness:          03/31/2005           01/28/2005
                                                                                  03/29/2007
Appraisal:            12/08/2003     Restructuring(s):                            04/13/2010
                                                                                  06/23/2011
Approval:             05/13/2004     Mid-term Review:                             05/06/2009
                                     Closing:                06/30/2010           12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower          Moderately Satisfactory


                                                i
Performance:                                      Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     6                   10
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                  94                   90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                       67                   85
Infrastructure services for private sector development               33                   15

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Hasan A. Tuluy                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Penelope J. Brook                    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:           Susan G. Goldmark                    Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies
Project Team Leader:      Lucia Spinelli                       Victoria Susan Bogach
ICR Team Leader:          Fernando Lecaros
ICR Primary Author:       Fernando Lecaros




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The development objective of the project is to increase the demand for and competitive
supply of energy efficient goods and services, contributing to : (a) increased efficiency of
energy use; (b) reduced reliance of the Uruguayan economy on imported energy and
fuels; and (c) reduced emission from the energy sector.

  The Project's global environmental objective (GEO) is to promote energy efficiency
through (i) building capacity and know-how among stakeholders; (ii) stimulation of
consumer demand; and (iii) promotion of project development and investment financing.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increased market share of energy efficient appliances
                                           Residential and
                                                                             Residential and
                                           commercial 10%,
                                                                             commercial 18%,
                                           Municipal lighting
                                                                             Municipal lighting
Value                                      20%, Water
                                                                             63%, Water heaters
(quantitative or                           heaters 25%,
                                                                             9%, Refrigeration
Qualitative)                               Refrigeration 25%,
                                                                             9%,       air
                                           air conditioning
                                                                             conditioning n/a,
                                           25%, Electric
                                                                             Electric Motors n/a
                                           Motors 20%
Date achieved                              01/28/2011                        12/28/2011
                 Residential and commercial 180%, Municipal lighting 315%,
Comments         Water heaters 36%,
(incl. %         Refrigeration 36%,
achievement) Air conditioning n/a,
                 Electric Motors n/a
                 At least US$22.7 million cumulative investment in energy efficiency investment
Indicator 2 :
                 projects
Value
(quantitative or                           22.7                              22.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              01/28/2005                        12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %         98%
achievement)
Indicator 3 : A minimum of 250 stakeholders trained on energy efficiency practices

                                               iii
Value
(quantitative or                            250                                 3200
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               01/28/2005                          12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           1280%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      At least 10 companies providing energy efficiency services in Uruguay
Value
(quantitative or   0                        10                                  73
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/08/2003               01/28/2005                          12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           730%
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :      A voluntary testing and labeling program in operation
Value
(quantitative or                            In operation                        achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               01/28/2005                          12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           The system is operating and for some appliances lables are compulsory.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Energy efficiency investment projects completed by UTE
Value
(quantitative or                            US$ 5.9 million                     US$ 6.32 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               01/28/2005                          12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           107%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Feasibility studies financed by UFEE
Value
(quantitative or                            90                                  17
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               01/28/2005                          12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           19%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      UFEE Loans

                                                  iv
Value
(quantitative or                              6.2                             0.2
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 01/28/2005                      12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           3.2%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Cost of UFEE financed projects
Value
(quantitative or                              6.8                             0.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 01/28/2005                      12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           5.9%
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Solar home Systems installed
Value
(quantitative or                              2000                            757
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 01/28/2005                      12/28/2011
Comments
                   38%. Around 250 systems were donated to primary education facilities as part of
(incl. %
                   the Plan Ceibal initiative.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Energy savings achieved (ktep)
Value
(quantitative or                              559                             225
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 01/28/2005                      12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           40%
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Avoided CO2 emissions (103 tons)
Value
(quantitative or                              1,400                           499
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 01/28/2005                      12/28/2011
Comments
(incl. %           36%
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               GEO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     08/18/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00


                                                     v
  2    11/22/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory            0.00
  3    04/27/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory            0.00
  4    07/30/2005       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory     0.00
  5    11/15/2005       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory     0.13
  6    06/02/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     0.13
  7    12/12/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory     0.40
  8    06/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.63
  9    12/04/2007   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.77
 10    06/12/2008   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            1.24
 11    12/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            1.66
 12    05/15/2009   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            4.42
 13    11/17/2009   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            4.83
 14    06/11/2010       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory            5.19
 15    02/22/2011   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            5.92
 16    08/10/2011   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory            6.55


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      Modify the Fund in order to
 03/29/2007       N        MS     MS           0.58   provide Garanties instead of
                                                      Loans.
                                                      (a) extended the closing date
                                                      from the original date (June 30,
 04/13/2010       N        MS      S           5.07   2010) to December 31, 2011,
                                                      and (b) reallocated grant
                                                      resources
                                                      (a) incorporated the UFEE
                                                      Guarantee Fund into a national
                                                      system of guarantees (SiGa), (b)
 06/23/2011                MS      S           6.38   executed a final reallocation of
                                                      the grant’s resources, and (c)
                                                      converted sub-loans into sub-
                                                      grants.




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Uruguay is an Upper Middle Income country with a relatively low population of 3.3 million. It is
one of the richest countries in Latin America, with a per capita income of US$9,0101 (above
Brazil and Argentina and only slightly below Venezuela and Chile). With a Gini coefficient of
around 0.46, Uruguay has the most egalitarian distribution of income in the region; it also has the
lowest percentage of people under the poverty line; the official poverty headcount ratio declined
from 46.2% in 1986 to 20.5 in 2009.
The 1990s were characterized by strong economic growth—the average rate of GDP growth was
4.1% from 1990 to 1998. This macroeconomic performance was halted by a recession that began
in 1998-1999 and peaked in 2002, when the GDP fell 10.8% and the exchange rate increased 93%.
When considering the whole 1990-2002 period, the average rate of growth was only 1.4%.
Growth started to resume in 2004 when the project was being prepared.
Its per capita electricity use is around 2,400kWh, below Argentina and Venezuela (2,789 and
3,074 kWh respectively) and above Brazil (2,232kWh). Uruguay is poor in hydrocarbons and has
reached the development limit of its hydroelectric resources (some of them in association with
neighboring countries); plantation biomass is an important source of energy for industrial and
commercial enterprises (the forest area increased from 9200km2 in 1990 to 17,400km2 in 2009).
The country also has wind resources which were only developed since 2006; the private sector
has installed 23MW and the public sector (UTE) has installed 20MW for a total of 43MW.
For electricity supply, and given its poor generation resources, Uruguay adopted a strategy in the
late 90s based on imports from Argentina by taking advantage of low prices and large availability
in the Argentinean wholesale market. Around 2004 Argentina imposed price controls on natural
gas, which led to increasing consumption and reduced supply; as a consequence, the availability
of energy for export to its neighbors (Uruguay and Chile) was curtailed, both with regard to
natural gas and electricity.
At the time of project preparation (2003–2004), the Uruguayan power system was buying cheap
energy from Argentina and running its most expensive units to meet demand and energy
efficiency was not on the energy sector’s agenda. Initially, the state-owned Uruguayan electricity
company, UTE, did not see an energy efficiency (EE) project as a priority on the grounds of its
current energy availability and that an Energy Efficiency operation would reduce demand for its
product. However, under circumstances in which it was difficult to supply the load, the project
came to be seen as another source of energy, as opposed to a market-destroying mechanism, and
UTE endorsed it. During project preparation a significant potential for EE came to light and has
been advanced as a result of the project; EE is now an integral component of the power sector’s
strategy developed by the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining (MIEM) and endorsed by a
multiplicity of stakeholders.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
The development objective of the project is to increase the demand for and competitive supply of
energy efficient goods and services, contributing to: (a) increased efficiency of energy use; (b)



1
    World Bank, The Little Data Book 2011, Atlas method.


                                                    1
reduced reliance of the Uruguayan economy on imported energy and fuels; and (c) reduced
emissions from the energy sector.

The Project’s global environmental objective (GEO) is to promote energy efficiency through (i)
building capacity and know-how among stakeholders; (ii) stimulation of consumer demand; and
(iii) promotion of project development and investment financing.

Key indicators for evaluating the accomplishment of the PDO included:

       Increased market share of energy efficient appliances;
       At least US$23 million cumulative investment in energy efficiency investment projects;
       A minimum of 250 stakeholders trained on energy efficiency practices;
       At least 10 companies providing energy efficiency services in Uruguay.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The GEO and the key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main economic benefits of the project derive from energy savings of industrial, commercial,
and residential users. The savings come from (i) initial and replication energy efficiency
investment projects; (ii) adoption of more efficient appliances and equipment resulting from
testing, certification, and labeling activities; (iii) the use of renewable technologies in rural areas;
and (iv) a conscious saving of energy associated with media and educational campaigns.
Regarding testing, certification, and labeling, the project addresses a source of market failure due
to the incapacity of consumers to choose certain products according to their efficiency/price
tradeoffs because of insufficient information regarding the characteristics of the products and the
impossibility of testing them on an individual basis.
Two sub-components specifically benefit poor households. The poor neighborhoods sub-project
carried out by UTE-ESU reduces electricity use and electricity costs of poor urban households
through the use of more efficient lights and equipment. The solar home systems (SHS) target the
provision of electricity services to isolated rural households, most of whom are poor. The massive
bulb replacement campaign also benefitted poor households.
All components reduce emissions of pollutants, thereby benefitting the population at large by the
reduction of CO2 emissions, and the population in the vicinity of specific industries (e.g. power
plants) by the reduction of NOx and SOx emissions through reduced health damages. Additional
beneficiaries of the project through reduced emissions consist of agricultural enterprises which
are less affected by acid deposition.


1.5 Original Components
The project was conceived with three main components:
Component 1: Energy Efficiency Market Development. This component to be implemented by
the Ministry of Industry, Energy, and Mining (MIEM) would strengthen the market for energy
efficient goods and services. The component would support energy efficiency activities in all
economic sectors, and would support savings of all types of energy, including electricity and fuels.
It included two main activities:


                                                   2
       Market strengthening. The activities under this component included: (a) policies and
        regulations for promoting energy efficiency; (ii) awareness creation and capacity building
        programs; (iii) a labeling and standards program including a voluntary energy efficiency
        seal for main household appliances, lighting equipment, building thermal envelope and
        industrial and other equipment and materials; and (iv) standard contractual instruments to
        support Energy Service Company (ESCO)-based projects.
       Uruguay Fund for Energy Efficiency (UFEE). The fund would facilitate financing of
        energy efficiency projects. It would support (i) fund management services, (ii) a Project
        Development Facility to provide contingent grants to cost-share feasibility studies, and
        (iii) a Project Finance Facility to provide term debt to energy investment projects by
        emergent ESCOs, business, and industry. It was conceived to be managed by a
        commercial bank on behalf of MIEM.
Component 2: Utility-Based Energy Efficiency Services. This component, to be implemented
by UTE, would assist the creation and operation of an Energy Savings Unit within UTE (UTE-
ESU). The unit would develop new business activities for UTE in energy efficiency services,
especially demand side management (DSM). It would offer services (i) to UTE, (ii) through UTE
to its clients, and (iii) directly to clients such as businesses. It was conceived with three separate
sub-components:
       Establishment of UTE-ESU. Support for technical assistance to advise UTE on
        establishing the unit and preparing a business plan, and to carry out market surveys.
        UTE’s own resources would support the costs of staffing, administration and office costs,
        marketing, training, and monitoring and evaluation of activities of the unit.
       DSM and Energy Efficiency Investments by UTE-ESU. These activities were to
        comprise three initial projects defined during preparation and further follow-up
        investments to be determined during the early years of operation. The initial pipeline of
        projects included: (i) provision of efficient lights, water heaters and other energy efficient
        equipment to residential and commercial customers in the municipalities of Ciudad de la
        Costa, Paysandu, Colonia and San José; (ii) installation of new municipal lighting
        equipment in Maldonado, San José, Soriano and Lavalleja; and (iii) reduction of losses,
        and increased end-use efficiency and payment levels in poor urban areas. The business
        plan of the ESU would be reviewed and adjusted on an annual basis, to take into account
        the results of ongoing projects and lessons learned. New projects would be added, as long
        as they meet the criteria for energy efficiency investments, and the GEF/UTE financing
        ratio of one to four is maintained.
       Solar Home Systems (SHS). This sub-component would include provision of efficient
        modern energy services to low-income rural customers using SHS.
Component 3: Project Management.

1.6 Revised Components
In a project restructuring which took place in 2007, Component 1 was redefined. The UFEE
would no longer operate as an investment fund, but would operate as a Guarantee fund for EE
projects. This change was implemented due to the increased liquidity in the financial system
where UFEE, with limited resources, was found to be unable to place loans. The Guarantee
mechanism allowed the project to continue supporting EE with a more responsive tool. As a
consequence, the allocations in the Grant Agreement were revised by eliminating those associated
with UFEE and transferring them to the Guarantee fund.



                                                  3
1.7 Other significant changes
The project underwent the following changes:
           A first amendment in 2004 to allow UTE to use commercial procurement procedures;
           A second amendment in 2007 relating to the new concept of UFEE, as noted above;
           A level-2 amendment in 2010 which (a) extended the closing date from the original date
            (June 30, 2010) to December 31, 2011, and (b) reallocated grant resources, including a
            works category to allow for the financing of testing laboratory equipment; and
           A fourth amendment in June, 2011 which (a) incorporated the UFEE Guarantee Fund into
            a national system of guarantees (SiGa) established after the fund was capitalized, (b)
            executed a final reallocation of the grant’s resources, and (c) converted sub-loans into
            sub-grants: contingency loans already under the Fund were changed to sub-grants for
            audit studies to be handled directly by CND.
The following table summarizes the different resource allocation changes:
                                           Grant Allocations (US$)
                                                             2007              2010        2011
                                              Original
                                                         Amendment           Amendment Restructuring
(1) Sub-grants under Part A of the
                                               500,000            —                —                   —
Project1
(2) Sub-loans under Part A of the
                                              1,975,000           —                —                   —
Project1
(3) Goods under Part B                        1,360,000       1,360,000        1,608,114            1,621,993
(4) Consultant’s Services                     1,600,000       2,000,000        2,227,799            2,155,009
(5) Fund Management Services                   400,000           —                —                     —
(6) Incremental Operating Costs                300,000         300,000          404,087              548,282
(7) Unallocated                                740,000         740,000             —                    —
(8) Transfers to the UFEE1                       —            2,475,000        2,475,000            2,475,000
(9) Works under Part (a)                          —               —             160,000               74,716
Total                                         6,875,000       6,875,000        6,875,000            6,875,000
1
    Categories (1) and (2) under Part A of the project became category (8) to capitalize the Fund

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project was prepared when a Transmission and Distribution project (P008177) was under
implementation, which included among its objectives the promotion of more efficient use of
energy. However, UTE, the beneficiary, had found it difficult to invest in activities aimed at
improving energy use due to a perceived contradiction of having a power company encourage
less electricity consumption. However, improving EE became a prominent subject in the context
of a situation of energy scarcity created by the supply conditions resulting from price and quantity
constraints on natural gas exports imposed by Argentina. The EE project was therefore conceived
as a complement to the institutional components of the Transmission and Distribution project
with a view to stimulating UTE, the private sector, and the public sector to invest in energy
efficiency improvements.
The project was in line with the CAS at the time, which supported the GOU’s strategy to enhance
competition, encourage private sector participation, diversify energy sources, protect the


                                                        4
environment, support programs and technologies that promote the efficient supply and use of
energy, and facilitate access of the poor to basic services.
The project was prepared on the basis of substantial prior information collected for this purpose,
through extensive interviews and research on Uruguay’s industrial sector, which indicated
significant potential for energy saving, as well as a base of technical knowledge and interest
among a small number of entrepreneurs in providing energy efficiency services. A GEF PDF-B
Grant (US$340,000) financed preparation work that included: (i) a market survey and research to
estimate the potential for energy efficiency in Uruguay, and the incremental cost analysis; (ii)
development of a financial model and draft fiduciary agreement for management of the Uruguay
Fund for Energy Efficiency (UFEE); (iii) studies to confirm initial Project pipeline and prepare
three initial projects for implementation by UTE-ESU; (iv) development of a business plan for
UTE-ESU; (v) workshops to build consensus among all relevant stakeholders, including NGOs;
and (vi) development of an operational manual for the project including a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) plan. The supporting study2 for the project was executed in June 2003 and
revised in November 2003. It found a potential savings of 1,554ktpe based on a two-year payback
in the Industrial, Residential, Commercial and Government sectors.
Despite the large potential, energy efficiency investments were not taking place and the
preparation team identified the main barriers, which consisted of (i) lack of demand for energy
efficient goods and services, (ii) limited capacity and know-how among key stakeholders, and
(iii) lack of project development and investment financing. These factors allowed identifying
strategic choices for the project, including (i) increasing awareness of stakeholders, (ii)
encouraging the Energy Services Company (ESCO) mechanism, and (iii) facilitating access to
finance through the UFEE.
During project preparation project alternatives were identified and evaluated, such as: (i) the
business as usual option, which would not materialize efficiency benefits and would not help the
GOU in its efforts to comply with commitments under the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change; (ii) an alternative consisting of direct investment in large energy
efficiency projects which would have been less adaptive and was discarded in favor of the
adopted market-based approach that would allow learning by doing, complemented by regulatory
reform to encourage energy efficiency; and (iii) a strategy of relying only on the emergent ESCOs
to build up capacity, which was considered too risky and was discarded in favor of the adopted
multi-track approach, capitalizing on the experience of UTE while supporting the development of
ESCOs.
The project was prepared taking into account Bank and GEF experience in other projects such as:
the Brazil, Poland, Romania and Croatia Energy Efficiency projects, the Ecuador Power and
Communications Modernization and Rural Services project (PROMEC), the China Energy
Conservation project, the Uruguay Power Transmission and Distribution project, and the
Argentina Renewable Energy in Rural Markets project (PERMER). The Bank’s projects in
energy efficiency were rated as Satisfactory at the time of preparation, which provided
reassurance that the project, if well designed, would be successful. Despite this, the team did not
take measures at the time of preparation for ensuring that a financial organization would be
effectively interested in managing a proposed EE fund (acknowledging that such a firm could not
have been recruited at preparation without probably entering into a competitive bidding process),



2
 Econergy, “Energy Sector and Capital Markets Assessment and Program Design, Uruguay Energy
Efficiency Project, June 2003?


                                                5
nor did it delve into the full range of options for implementing such a fund, which would prove to
be an important obstacle during implementation.
Finally, the project design took into consideration mitigation measures for risks that would be
faced, such as: (i) minimizing the impact of uncertainties of growth and credit (macro level risk)
by conservatively estimating the size of the investments addressed by the project, lengthening the
project life to six years, and allowing flexibility in the use of the UFEE; and (ii) minimizing the
uncertainty of energy pricing through the use of technical assistance being provided, at the time
of project preparation, to the GOU to maintain its policy (and past history) of commitment to
economic prices.
In conclusion, the project was prepared by taking into account experience in other countries with
similar approaches, analyzing alternatives, and designing the project to reasonably mitigate some
of the risk factors it could encounter. However, project preparation failed to foresee that
commercial interest in promoting a small fund for fostering energy efficiency investments, as the
one incorporated under Component 1 - Energy Efficiency Market Development, would elicit little
interest from the banking sector, particularly if liquidity conditions in the market were to improve,
as they did. In addition, the choice of indicators is difficult to relate to the PDO and GEO. In
particular, certain indicators such as reductions in NOx, SOx, and the emission of particulates are
not measured consistently and are difficult to trace back to the project. As shown below in section
3.4 (overall outcome rating), the accomplishments of the project can be better explained by a
number of outputs which are not directly linked to those chosen at preparation.

2.2 Implementation

The project had a slow start due to elections (October 2004) and changes in authorities (March,
2005); effectiveness was declared on March 31, 2005, under the new Government. The new
Government maintained stable economic policies which it had inherited, and supported the
project. As designed, the project was implemented by assigning responsibilities to MIEM
(Component 1) and to UTE (Component 2).
Component 1 – Energy Efficiency Market Development included the UFEE sub-component that
was to achieve, together with UTE’s USEE at least US$14 million cumulative investment in
energy efficiency investment projects as well as sub-components focused on policies and
regulations, promoting energy efficiency, labeling, and the support of ESCOs. The Project
initially envisaged the fund as an investment fund for direct co-financing of energy efficiency
sub-projects. This structure was adequate when liquidity levels were low, as at the time of Project
preparation. Throughout project execution, the PMU and the Bank team actively adapted the
fund’s design to a changing environment in the financial sector and to the Fund’s own limitations
in terms of size (and hence its attractiveness for commercial banks as a source of funds). Due to
abundant liquidity in the market, it was initially converted into a guarantee fund and accordingly
restructured in March 2007; because the banks could not use the guarantees as collateral vis à vis
the Central Bank, it was further restructured in 2011 and incorporated into SIGA (Sistema
Nacional de Garantías para Empresas) which allows the banks to use it as collateral. It is now
expected to achieve its objective. Implementation of the fund and its successive transformations
was attained by partnering with the National Development Corporation (Corporación Nacional
para el Desarrollo—CND). The Fund will be further capitalized with resources from the Energy
Efficiency law. It is important to note that the total levels of investments in EE included as targets
for the PDO indicator (at least US$22.7 million cumulative investment in energy efficiency
investment projects) were reached despite the fact that the Fund has not yet been seen as an
appealing source of financing for the SMEs.


                                                  6
The other sub-components under MIEM were implemented very successfully (see Annex 2—
Project Outputs), with a large number of accomplishments, such as the EE law and its secondary
legislation (which were prepared with the support of the EE unit in MIEM), 37 diagnostics in
public buildings, nine energy efficiency studies, a labeling program including the development of
49 norms, equipment for testing laboratories, dissemination of EE information using radio and
TV, EE promotion for schoolchildren through publications and puppet shows, technical talks and
courses, among others. It also supported a contest in which 10 projects costing up to $50,000
were subsidized up to 50 percent as demonstration projects to show the benefits of EE. The
project also supported annual prizes for EE projects which provided an incentive to promote EE
and were awarded to participating ESCOs. During ICR preparation several ESCOs were
interviewed and they all acknowledged that the EE program was highly successful in providing
training and in bringing EE to the fore in the public mind. As evidence, one of the ESCOs saw the
number of its projects grow from about 35 in 2002-2004 to double this amount in 2006–2010;
more strikingly, as evidence of the success of the program in raising the profile of EE, only 23
percent of the projects studied in the first period were implemented, whereas 78 percent were
implemented in the second. All this explains why the number of registered ESCOs considerably
surpasses the target indicator for the ESCO’s PDO. Even the number of very active ESCOs (19)
almost doubles the 10 ESCOs original target.
One of the more successful initiatives in the project consisted of the labeling program. As noted
in the preparation section, it addresses a market failure due to the impossibility faced by
consumers in judging the efficiency of different devices vis à vis their price. The labeling process
involves (a) developing norms to be complied with for different efficiency levels, (b) testing
products in order to ascertain their efficiency level, (c) authorizing the producer or the importer to
label their product accordingly, and (d) supervising compliance. It started off as a voluntary
program, but subsequently became compulsory for certain appliances and lighting implements. In
Uruguay this process was implemented with project support, as follows:
       The Uruguayan Technical Norms Institute (UNIT), which established the technical
        specifications for different apparatus (it promulgated 49 norms under the project), and in
        particular for Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) and for water heaters (which are
        predominantly electrical in Uruguay);
       Three technical laboratories which were equipped through project resources to test the
        equipment and which deliver a trial certificate to enable the producer or importer to label
        it;
       The regulator (Unidad Reguladora de Servicios de Energía y Agua—URSEA), which
        supervises compliance with the labeling system through random market visits.
Currently all CFLs exhibit a compulsory efficiency label to guide consumers in their purchases.
As from August 2012, water heaters and refrigerators will also require an efficiency certification
label. By establishing a compulsory labeling system, the GOU went beyond what was agreed
during project preparation. In addition, after the closing of the project UNIT was hired by the
DNE to continue working in the development of norms related to energy efficiency in transport
vehicles. Unfortunately, this success in the design and implementation of the labeling system is
not fully reflected in the accomplishment of the PDO due to shortcomings in the project’s M&E
design which were not addressed in the subsequent restructurings. The PDO specifically included
6 types of appliances but not all have been formally incorporated into the different stages of the
labeling system. The norms have been developed by UNIT for all the appliances but rules have
not yet been set for air conditioners and electric motors norms. The information provided by the
importers was not robust enough to estimate the increase in market share of more efficient
appliances.

                                                  7
Regarding the UTE component, it was oriented towards establishing a profitable ESCO within the
company to market EE services. It included several target activities: (i) all non-industrial markets
(residential, commercial, government), (ii) public lighting, including traffic lighting, (iii) loss
reduction in poor neighborhoods, and (iv) rural Solar Home Systems (SHS) for low income users.
In the residential sector, the original orientation of the PAD consisted of changing incandescent
lamps for compact fluorescent ones (CFLs), and changing water heaters for more efficient ones.
UTE initially marketed CFLs by charging them to clients through their electricity bill according
to the savings achieved. In 2007 the energy crisis in Uruguay prompted UTE to buy 2.4 million
CFLs as a massive way of reducing demand; these were distributed among users at no cost, and
under this circumstance the EE project did not make sense anymore. The cost of the lamps bought
by UTE comprised a counterpart contribution to the project. Additionally, UTE supported
educational campaigns, training of secondary school teachers, and prizes for EE projects. This
policy contributed to surpassing the target for increased market share of efficient residential and
commercial lighting.
In the commercial and government sectors, UTE oriented its actions towards EE in buildings.
UTE provides a diagnosis and the client pays for the implementation of the EE measures. UTE
has visited over 100 clients (17 of the municipal sector, 56 private sector, and 55 other public
sector), covering a wide variety of projects, such as solar heating, lighting etc. Of these projects
around 60 percent were implemented.
In the street lighting area, UTE changed lamps for departmental governments as an ESCO project
which pays for itself through energy savings. In the process, UTE found a deteriorated
infrastructure which was rehabilitated and public lighting lamps were changed, which increased
the costs from $180,000 estimated in the PAD to $800,000. The process started in 2006 and is
still being implemented. It is estimated that these investments pay for themselves in about 5 years
from installation. These UTE investments helped achieve the target for increased market share of
efficient Municipal lighting.
The poor neighborhoods component was conceived as a process through which improvements in
the network reduce technical losses, and social actions lead to legalizing connections with the
subsequent reduction in consumption due to the price effect. The approach consisted traditionally
of refurbishing the community’s electricity network, but little was accomplished through the
ESCO in this sense. On the social front, teams of a technician and a social worker visited the
neighborhoods to legalize connections. The project managed 5 neighborhoods, and losses would
reduce during the first three months but would increase thereafter, as users backslided into
illegality. The project was closed around 2009 and wasn’t very successful. It is assumed that a
lengthier intervention to consolidate the results would have been required.
The SHS sub-component consisted of the installation of 1,000 SHS acquired by UTE in 2001.
They consisted of 50Wp panels and a battery. The project was conceived to include local
installation and maintenance, but when installation was bid out it turned out to be far more
expensive than originally conceived. UTE decided to do it on its own. The project installed 757
SHS and the excess was donated to primary education facilities as part of the Plan Ceibal
initiative to provide computers to grade school children. The relative lack of success in this sub-
project was partly attributable to the connection of potential beneficiaries to the grid.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Project M&E was designed around the aggregation upwards of sub-project indicators to assess
the success of the Project. Data gathering on the identified indicators would be conducted as
follows: (a) at the sub-project level, a monitoring system would record data on project activities,

                                                 8
and (ii) at the component level, UFEE and UTE-ESU would gather transaction information and
benefits related to their project investment and implementation activities.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) within MIEM was responsible for recording, organizing,
and presenting results from the different components, including the Standards and Labeling
Program, and the Training and Education Programs, and for gathering the information for regular
review of project monitoring indicators.
The key performance indicators were tracked and recorded by the PMU (see Section 3.2 for
information on achieving the key PDO indicators goals). The M&E framework for the project
included some implementation progress indicators that were difficult to obtain with reasonable
resources. For example, the indicator related to reduce emissions of Sox and NOx particles
required data base information from environmental authorities, which was not produced. Had
these deficiencies been addressed during the project’s restructurings, the successful outcomes
would have been more precisely captured.
Project monitoring and evaluation was accomplished formally by hiring an auditing firm for the
financial aspects of the project and a consultant for the technical aspects. The auditing firm was
PriceWaterhouseCoopers and the consulting firm was Mercados Energéticos. The latter produced
two reports (in 2010 and 2011) covering years 2008 and 2009; the studies determined a
methodology and its application to assess (i) the penetration of efficient equipment in the market,
(ii) the incidence of labeling, (iii) the effectiveness of training and educational activities related to
EE, and (iv) the savings and emissions reductions resulting from the implementation of EE
projects. The studies also determined procedures to follow-up the information related to ESCOS
and the EE unit of UTE. Together with the evaluation and tracking of project indicators, the
Mercados reports provided a methodology for monitoring the project, which was applied by the
PMU.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Financial Management. The Project complied reasonably well throughout its life with
prescribed FM arrangements and Bank requirements, such as acceptable periodic IFR reporting
and up to date accounting records. Those arrangements provided reasonable assurance that the
GEF funds were used for the purpose intended. Project transactions were mainstreamed in the
PIU Financial Management Information System of MIEM, and the UTE Accounting Systems.
Moreover, the project transactions, subject to the external oversight of the Tribunal de Cuentas de
la República del Uruguay (TCR), showed unqualified (clean) audit opinions. Audit reports were
reviewed and always deemed acceptable by the Bank. TCR has started the application of audit
procedures for the audit of year 2011. The project audit report for 2011 is expected to be received
at the Bank within the due date or with some minor delay.
Procurement. The organizational structure for project management and procurement activities
proposed at appraisal was kept along project implementation. MIEM’s Project Management Unit
(PMU) and UTE-USE – the Energy Savings Unit created within UTE to implement one project
component - were established and staffed - including procurement capacity - and the procurement
documents for the first year's activities were complete and ready for project implementation, as
effectiveness conditions. To accelerate the provision of modern energy services based on solar
panels to low-income dispersed rural populations, GEF resources were allocated to the retroactive
financing of about 1,000 solar home systems (SHS) acquired by UTE following Bank's
procurement rules.
The MIEM’s PMU was responsible for contracting works, goods and services, including
consultant services, for Components 1- Energy Efficiency Market Development - and 3 - Project
Management Component - while UTE-USE was responsible for procurement activities of

                                                   9
Component 2 - Utility Based Energy Efficiency Services - with the support of the Acquisitions
and Contracts Department of UTE. Both units were successful in discharging their
responsibilities, which included carrying out procurement activities from the preparation of TORs
and technical specifications to supervision of contract’s execution.
Professional capacity of the staff involved in procurement activities along project execution, as
well as the organization of the implementation units, were deemed adequate. Procurement plans
were realistic and of satisfactory quality. MIEM and UTE used SEPA for planning and
monitoring acquisitions and the ex-post reviews found that procurement activities were consistent
with the information registered in SEPA. Both agencies published procurement announcements
on their WEB sites, in addition to UNDP, dgMarket, SICE (Sistema Integrado de Compras
Estatales), local newspapers and specialized publications, and also directly invited potential
suppliers of goods and services.
Both agencies followed the requirements of the Bank procurement guidelines and the Grant
Agreement, with the exception of minor deviations identified during Bank procurement
supervision missions. A lesson learned was the need to provide more intensive training in
procurement matters to the project implementation units, as well as the national agencies
interacting with them, such as the Tribunal de Cuentas, the national auditing agency. Final project
procurement rating was moderately satisfactory.


Safeguards. The project was classified as Environmental Category F (Financial intermediary
assessment). No safeguards were triggered by the project and all the subprojects to be guaranteed
by the UFEE needed to be category B or C in order to be eligible; ESCOs and other project
sponsors were held responsible for assuring Environmental Compliance. Environmental effects
from the project are positive, by contributing to reduce emissions and reducing the risks of global
warming.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project facilitated the transition from a situation where there was practically no knowledge of
energy efficiency, including UTE, to the present condition where EE plays an important role in
the National Energy Strategy and a number of private ESCOs are in operation and sustaining
themselves commercially. The institutions created through the project, such as the certification
laboratories, are expected to maintain themselves financially through the testing of new products.
The same holds for the other organizations involved in the labeling process. Regarding the UFEE,
it is expected that more projects will materialize now that it is part of the SIGA. In addition, a
share of the resources from the EE Law will be assigned to the UFEE in order to assure its
continuity. Regarding the educational aspects, as well as the dissemination of EE material, it has
achieved its purpose and teachers prepared through the project are expected to disseminate its
main ideas. Finally, the project output which most contributes to project sustainability is the EE
law of September, 2009, which provides a legal basis for the National Energy Efficiency Plan,
and creates the Uruguayan Energy Efficiency and Savings Trust Fund for providing financing
technical assistance in EE, promoting EE, financing investment projects related to EE, and
supporting research and development related to EE. The Fund is by law under the management of
CND. Secondary legislation complementing and interpreting the EE law was issued in March
2012 through a Presidential Decree which provides the full procedures for putting the fund in
place and its capitalization through public monies (0.13 percent of total energy sales, including oil
and gas, and power). Consequently, EE initiatives are assured long term sustainability as an
outcome of the project.


                                                 10
3. Assessment of Outcomes
In today’s context EE has acquired a high profile in the Uruguayan energy sector as a proven
means of rationally managing energy use, complementing and including initiatives in the power
sector such as demand-side management (DSM). The country has been able to address the energy
shortages which emerged during project preparation (2004) by installing emergency units and
developing renewables.
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil in 2004, at the time of project preparation, was
$43 per barrel; in early 2012 it is $105 per barrel. The energy bill for a country without any
hydrocarbon reserves, such as Uruguay, is enormous and seeking to maximize efficiency within
economic limits is a relevant objective from the country’s point of view. This was explicitly
acknowledged in the 2005–2010 CAS where risks associated with energy dependence and
programs for reducing losses and increasing efficiency are supported. The 2010–2015 CPS
emphasizes facilitating availability and acquisition of energy efficient goods and services, as
supported by the project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environmental Objectives

The four indicators for Project Development Objectives were:
       At least US$23 million cumulative investment in energy efficiency investment
        projects;
       A minimum of 250 stakeholders trained on energy efficiency practices;
       At least 10 companies providing energy efficiency services in Uruguay.
       Increased market share of energy efficient appliances;

The achievement of the indicators was as follows:

At least US$22.7 (exact target) million cumulative investments in energy efficiency
investment projects. It is estimated that the project supported cumulative investments of around
US$22.3 million, thereby achieving 98 percent of the target.

A minimum of 250 stakeholders trained on energy efficiency practices. Through its different
educational activities, including workshops and seminars for professionals as well as training of
teachers in schools, the project vastly exceeded the initial goal of 250 trained stakeholders: there
are an estimated 3,200 trained stakeholders.

Firms providing Energy Efficiency Services (ESCOs). The target for this indicator was to
have ten ESCOs in operation by the end of the project; the target was vastly exceeded, as there
are 73 ESCOs registered and at least 19 ESCOs actively in operation.

Increased market share of energy efficient appliances. This indicator was broken down into
six components with their corresponding target market share: residential and commercial (10%),
municipal lighting (20%), water heating (25%), refrigeration (25%), air conditioning (25%), and
electric motors. Of the six components, two (residential and commercial, and municipal lighting),
exceeded the target by factors of 1.8 and 3.1; two components (water heaters and refrigeration),
accomplished 36 percent of the target; and two components (air conditioning and electric motors)

                                                11
failed to achieve any measurable progress. UNIT norms have been developed for air conditioning
and electric motors but as indicated before, the whole labeling system is not yet in place for these
two appliances. The average achievement of this indicator would be around 45 percent.

3.3 Efficiency
An economic analysis was performed to evaluate (a) direct benefits from GHG reductions, and
(b) direct benefits from CFL introduction through UTE. Additionally, a counterfactual analysis
was documented based on recent studies of energy efficiency in Uruguay. The direct benefits of
GHG reduction yielded a B/C ratio of 0.96 to 1.4 depending on the price of carbon certificates,
including the totality of the GEF grant as a cost. The direct benefits of the introduction of CFLs
through UTE yielded a NPV of 2.9M$ at 12 percent discount, and an EIRR of 26 percent. The
counterfactual analysis over 1970–2008 did not yield a definitive endorsement of the
effectiveness of EE due to the mix of different incentives and technological progress (e.g. price
increases of fuel and the improvements in efficiency in the transport sector, which was not
covered by the project).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory
This rating is closely linked to the achievement of the project development indicators shown in
section 3.2, and is justified by the full (or in excess) accomplishment of three of them. As noted
above, the first, second and third indicators fully achieved and in two cases vastly exceeded their
targets; the fourth indicator was partially achieved but failed to reach the goals set out for air
conditioning and electric motors. It must be noted that the latter are the least significant in terms
of relative improvement to overall energy efficiency, whereas lighting, water heating, and
refrigeration are the most effective in this respect.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project improved the networks in low income neighborhoods through the UTE-executed
component and provided benefits to consumers at large with the CFL distribution program, which
included customers of UTE in poor areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The institutional consequences of the project were significant, particularly concerning the
adoption and putting in place of the EE law (with proprietary resources) which provides a means
for supporting EE initiatives far into the future. The project was also instrumental in changing
UTE’s orientation from a narrow perspective of selling electricity to a broader one of providing
electricity services under economic conditions to benefit the customer. This included Demand
Side Management actions and all of the activities associated with the UTE-ESU, which will be in
operation beyond project closure and can be expected to implement a large number of projects
benefitting public sector users.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
None identified.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

                                                 12
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
The development outcome of the project is to raise the profile of EE so that it contributes to
improving the delivery of energy services in Uruguay. Although there were particular physical
outputs from the project, it can be characterized primarily as seeking behavioral change through
better education and by opening up business opportunities for EE initiatives. In this sense there is
little risk that the lessons of the project will be forgotten and, in fact, they will be continuously
reinforced by everyday results, such as the labels on CFLs, water heaters, and eventually other
appliances. In addition, as mentioned below, an important number of ESCOs have been
strengthened and are working on EE on a daily basis.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank prepared the project meticulously, specifying its functioning and its expected results.
However, from an ex-post point of view, the problems encountered with UFEE point towards
insufficient preparation insofar as a stronger effort towards involving financial institutions into
the project during the design phase (some effort to do this took place, but it was insufficient). It
also proposed a number of progress indicators which were difficult to monitor and were not
directly linked to the objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank followed the project closely and was responsive to the client’s needs. Supervision
missions were programmed regularly and allowed a close monitoring of program results. The
Bank had a proactive attitude, restructuring and amending the Grant Agreement when required.
The restructurings responded mainly to the events surrounding the UFEE and the need for more
time to reach operational status. All other activities that did not require any specific amendment
were also supported by the bank team, assuring the achievement of the PDO indicators. However,
the project team and the Bank did not consider updating the targets of the implementation
progress indicators to better reflect project status and updating the list of appliances under the
first PDO indicator to better reflect the success of the labeling component.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This rating combines the lending and supervision ratings.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government supported the project by hosting the PMU in MIEM and by providing
competent staff during project implementation. There was notably little staff rotation which
allowed continuity in implementation with no political interference. A major contribution of
Government to project success was through espousing and passing the EE law through Congress,
and developing its secondary legislation which provides resources for an effective and sustainable
support to EE initiatives.

                                                 13
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
PMU: as noted above, it was staffed with competent and dedicated personnel who tracked the
project, provided twice-yearly performance reports, assisted in the preparation of the different
laws and regulations, coordinated the actions of multiple agencies involved in project execution,
and managed the project professionally.
UTE-ESU: the UTE office had the full support of management and was staffed by competent
professionals. Although its component encountered obstacles, UTE was able to execute it and to
reach the project goals. Ultimately, it has put in place an ESCO which will continue to provide
services to the residential, commercial, and, particularly, the government sector. However,
several of the activities originally assigned under its responsibility (SHS, losses in poor
neighborhoods) failed to achieve their objective. The UTE-ESU team was entirely financed by
UTE.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This rating reflects the Government, PMU, and UTE performance.

6. Lessons Learned.
Sustainable Energy Efficiency interventions require an integral approach and working
together with a multiplicity of actors. Having on board all the players since the beginning is
a useful strategy. Preparing an EE project requires putting in place agreements and working
closely with multiple agencies and institutions. This was accomplished since the design stage by
informing the agencies with respect to the project and to the role they were expected to play and
by organizing meetings of the Energy Efficiency Committee which incorporated staff from all
these agencies. In the case of the present project, all this interaction was facilitated by the active
role of the PMU, the size of the country and having all pertinent agencies in Montevideo.
Outreach activities play an essential role in raising Energy Efficiency awareness,
understanding this role is not always easy from a traditional energy sector point of view.
One of the main objectives of an EE project is to raise awareness with regard to EE in order to
promote changes in consumer behavior. In the UY project this was achieved by seeking public
support to disseminate information on EE at different levels (schools and the general public) and
different media (such as TV/radio spots) complemented by publications and courses. These types
of activities are usually not part of the common range of activities developed by an Energy
Agency. Business as usual is more oriented towards hard interventions. The success of this
particular experience was based in the early engagement of technical expertise in this area,
together with a strongly committed PMU and leverage to implement well designed outreach
activities.
The variety and the specificity of EE activities generate procurement challenges. An EE
project might finance a multiplicity of relatively small activities range from hiring studies, buying
and installing equipment, hiring ESCOS to do energy audits, to design and publishing books,
financing theater plays for kids and the participation in multiple expositions and congresses.
Adapting all this variety of activities to WB procurement Guidelines, especially in a small
country can became a challenge. Upfront planning and a flexible design of contracts can help
dealing with these issues.
International cooperation can leverage project results. The Uruguay EE project is a good
example of how teachings from other agencies and interactions with other countries can be
incorporated into the learning process for EE implementation. At different moments in project
execution the PMU was invited (and financed) to take part in activities with a wide variety of

                                                 14
agents, including ECLAC, the Spanish cooperation organization, JICA and the German Chamber
of Commerce which allowed interchanging experiences, attending courses and organizing
training and visits to projects implemented elsewhere. All this interaction helped increased the
leverage of the project and opened the door for new investments. For instance, the Japan
cooperation is financing a concentrated solar plant in Salto Grande.
As reflected in the borrower evaluation report, in the Uruguayan context some
procurement procedures and administrative measures became an issue.
       Contracting could be improved. In general, contracting procedures took at least 150
        days, and personnel contract renewal took at least 120 days;
       Purchases should be oriented towards the reduction of costs and risks. Procurement
        training should take place prior to the initiation of activities, including the Comptroller’s
        office (Tribunal de Cuentas) in charge of overseeing public resource expenditures;
       Reformulating the purchasing procedure to conform to the Bank’s norms was a
        lengthy procedure; unifying criteria and training in this respect should be emphasized;
       Avoiding changes in procurement officers. During the project there were changes of
        procurement officers and changes of criteria which delayed numerous processes;
       Challenges to contract awards should be dealt with in a way to conciliate local norms
        and Bank norms. Training encompassing the Comptroller’s office staff would help in this
        sense (see above).
       If two agencies are involved, working with two implementing agencies seems simpler
        but that is not necessarily the case for all administrative aspects if not all the
        precautions are taken. The project had two implementation teams, one in MIEM and
        another one in UTE. Each unit had an account but the special account was managed only
        by MIEM, generating some difficulties for both agencies.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The beneficiaries provided two comments: (i) the UTE SHS component was less
successful because in many cases the grid connected some of the potential beneficiaries,
and (ii) the poor neighborhoods component of UTE may have required a prolonged
intervention to have sustainable results.



(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholde




                                                15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                            Actual/Latest
                                       Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
           Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                         (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                               millions)
1. Energy Efficiency Market
                                                  10.83              4.821       45%
Development
1.1 Market Strengthening                          2.925              2.285       78%
1.2 Uruguay Fund for Energy
                                                  7.905              2.536       32%
Efficiency (UFEE)

2. Utility Based Energy Efficiency                8.980              9.414      104%
2.1 Establishment of Energy Savings
                                                  1.645              3.036      184%
Unit
2.2 DSM and Energy Efficiency
                                                  6.011              5.700       95%
Investments
2.3 SHS Activities                                1.324              0.678

3. Project Management                              1.350             1.383      102%
3.1 MIEM                                           0.950             1.028      108%
3.2 UTE                                            0.400             0.355       89%
                 Total Baseline Cost           21.160               15.618       74%
Physical Contingencies                              0.00              0.00        —
Price Contingencies                                 0.00              0.00        —
                Total Project Costs              21.160             15.618       74%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                  0.00              0.00        —
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00              0.00        —
           Total Financing Required              21.160             15.618       74%




                                                  16
(b) Financing by component (in USD million equivalent)
                    Global
   Source of                             MIEM                         Sub-
                  Environment                           UTE                    Total
    Funds                               Budget                     borrowers
                    Facility
                           1. Energy Efficiency Market Development
   Appraisal           4.5                 0.3            0           6.03     10.83
    Actual           4.292                0.53            0            0       4.822
 % of Appraisal       95%                177%             --           0       45%
                               2. Utility Based Energy Efficiency
   Appraisal         1.875                  0          7.105            0       8.98
    Actual           1.872                  0          7.541           0       9.413
 % of Appraisal      99.8%                  --         106%            --      105%
                                     3. Project Management
   Appraisal           0.5                 0.4           0.4          0.05      1.35
    Actual           0.656               0.374         0.353           0       1.383
 % of Appraisal      131%                94%            88%            0       102%
                                               Total
   Appraisal         6.875                 0.7         7.505          6.08      21.16
    Actual           6.818               0.904         7.894           0       15.618
 % of Appraisal       99%                129%          105%            0        74%
                                     Percentage of Funding
   Appraisal         32.5%               3.3%         35.5%          28.7%     100%
    Actual           43.7%               5.8%         50.5%            0       100%




                                            17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
  I.    By type of activities


            o   Component implemented under MIEM (Energy Efficiency Market
                Development)—$4.29 million of GEF Grant.
Studies. The project financed a number of studies which supported project development and
included:
     Energy efficiency law which supports the implementation of energy efficiency activities
        and corrects a number of uneconomic disincentives (such as the reversion of efficiency
        savings in public organizations, which did not incentivate energy efficiency investments.
        The law was approved and secondary legislation to put it into effect was developed with
        project support; it has been in effect since March 2012.
     Three studies covering the cogeneration potential in Uruguay, the country’s solar thermal
        potential, and energy savings potential.
     A study for the design of the UFEE.
     Studies for a project monitoring and evaluation methodology, as well as the actual
        monitoring and evaluation.
     Studies for solar water heaters in low-income housing, which were subsequently put in
        place (38 installations and a control system).
     Methods for auditing investment projects financed with UFEE guarantees.
     Methods and tools to enable the people to access energy sector information.
     Market instruments to capture the cogeneration potential in Uruguay.
Energy diagnostics. The project financed:
    Nine energy efficiency studies of which eight were implemented by ESCOs.
    37 diagnostics in public sector buildings, developed by 12 ESCOs
    Six guarantees for EE studies.
    One guarantee for an EE project.
EE labeling. The project financed:
    The development and publication of EE national norms (49 have been published), and
       norms for transportation.
    Design of the EE labeling system including the implementation of a compulsory system
       for CFLs, electrical heaters and refrigerators. .
    Design and equipment for the water heater and lamp testing laboratories.
    Radio and TV dissemination campaigns.
    Publicity in buses in Montevideo and vicinity.
    Market study for feasibility of EE testing for refrigeration and air conditioning equipment.
Training, Education, and Dissemination. This item involved a large number of initiatives to
reach out to the population in general in order to generate awareness and educate them regarding
EE. They included:
     Development and maintenance of the project’s website. The website’s usefulness
        received wide recognition from its users
     TV and radio videos and spots production and broadcasting.
     Project presentation through alternative TV programs.
     The national EE prize (2009, 2010, 2011).
     Design, development and dissemination of a primary school EE text.

                                               18
          EE learning disseminated through puppet shows at schools.
          Technical talks and courses oriented to ESCOs, energy-related staff in the public sector,
           students, and the public in general, which covered a large number of EE topics, such as:
           planning EE in the public sector, efficient lighting, efficient thermal insulation, efficiency
           in industrial combustion and steam processes, self-construction of thermal solar
           collectors, M&E of atmospheric emissions, improvements for the rice processing sector,
           courses for primary, secondary and community center teachers, energy audits for ESCOs,
           safety and EE in steam generation, and EE in public lighting.
Uruguayan Fund for Energy Efficiency (UFEE). The Fund was set up and its design
was modified to adapt it to the changing financial environment in which it was
implemented. It is now in operation as a guarantee fund associated with the National
Guarantee System.
               o Component implemented under UTE—$1.87 million of GEF Grant.
Studies and Energy Audits :
    Business plan for the UTE ESCO.
    6 Energy audits (2 public sector, 4 private sector)
Investments in public and private sector projects: 17 projects executed between January 2008
and July 2010.
Projects in low income neighborhoods: support in normalizing connections, infrastructure
works, and EE courses.
Public lighting projects: installation of efficient lights in public spaces, particularly traffic lights,
in the departments of Lavalleja, Soriano, and Montevideo.
Photovoltaic systems: 757 systems installed.


 II.       By Component – subcomponent.

Component            Subcomponent          Achievement
1 – Energy           Policies and          The creation of the EE unit within MIEM
Efficiency           Regulations for       was the basis for raising the profile of EE
Market               promoting             through multiple actions:
Development,         energy                -The EE law, designed with human
a) Market            efficiency            resources of the project, establishing a
strengthening.                             policy and a Trust Fund supporting EE and
                                           its financing;
                                           -Secondary legislation to put in place the
                                           EE law;
                                           -A law establishing Daylight Saving Time
                                           during the summer;
                                           -A law (2006) promoting solar thermal
                                           energy throughout Uruguay;
                                           -A decree (2009) promoting EE within
                                           energy generation activities;
                                           -Decrees (2009) for putting in place the EE
                                           labeling initiative;

                                                    19
Component   Subcomponent        Achievement
                                -Regulations (2009) relative to thermal
                                insulation of houses and buildings;
                                -Decrees (2010) promoting EE in the public
                                sector;
                                -Decree (2008) providing incentives to
                                measure public lighting services and
                                incentivize EE.

            Awareness           -Organization of 8 demonstration programs
            creation and        oriented towards the industrial, commercial,
            capacity building   public, and service sectors showing the
            programs            benefits of EE;
                                -Public media campaigns (TV and radio)
                                organized by MIEM and UTE to promote
                                changes in use patterns and the adoption of
                                EE;
                                -Technological dissemination through a
                                cycle of technical talks for ESCOs in order
                                to interchange information;
                                -Development of technical instruction
                                material on EE: 5 such publications were
                                disseminated targeting areas such as
                                lighting, transport and the public sector;
                                -Support studies on EE: Study of the Solar
                                Thermal Potential, Study on the Energy
                                Savings Potential,, and Study on
                                Cogeneration;
                                -Support for energy audits: 10 in the private
                                sector and 15 in the public sector, together
                                with courses on energy audits oriented to
                                ESCOs;
                                -Capacity building: 14 courses were held
                                for professional updating and 400
                                technicians were prepared in different EE
                                areas;
                                -Primary education: the unit prepared and
                                distributed 60,000 booklets on EE, together
                                with educational material for primary
                                teachers; this was complemented through
                                workshops for teachers, puppet shows and
                                rural school hands-on demonstrations;
                                -Secondary education: promotion of EE
                                through contests of projects developed by
                                students (34 schools and around 600
                                students have participated in these

                                       20
Component      Subcomponent       Achievement
                                  contests);
                                  -Itinerant demonstrations were prepared for
                                  demonstrating EE through experiments;
                                  UTE manages a bus for this purpose which
                                  travels around the country;
                                  -Annual encouragement for EE through
                                  prizes for implemented projects with best
                                  results in three categories: industry,
                                  commerce and services, and the public
                                  sector..
                                  -Development of a website and publication
                                  of a periodical newsletter to promote EE
                                  with over 1000 recipients
                                  (www.eficienciaenergetica.gub.uy)

               Labeling and       -Testing laboratories: the project facilitated
               standards          the development of three EE labs for testing
               program            water heaters and CFLs;
               including a        -The project designed and put in place the
               voluntary energy   labeling program by implementing the
               efficiency seal    measures contemplated in the EE
               for main           certification and labeling decree (see
               household          above);
               appliances and     -Organization and coordination of the labs,
               other equipment    two certifying entities, and the regulator
                                  who controls and monitors compliance
                                  through field surveys;
                                  -The project supported the development of
                                  49 norms covering EE equipment;
                                  -The project financed visits to Brazil and
                                  Argentina in order to gain experience with
                                  the process.


               Standard           The project developed blueprints for ESCO
               contractual        interventions and organized training courses
               instruments to     for ESCO staff through a corporate
               support ESCO-      development program. There are 56
               based projects     registered ESCOs, of which 14 are in active
                                  operation.
1 – Energy     Uruguay fund       The Fund was established and
Efficiency     for EE and         capitalized. As noted in the implementation
Market         complementary      section, the Fund was unable to operate as
Development,   services           initially conceived and was restructured
b) UFEE                           twice. Now that it is incorporated in the

                                         21
Component      Subcomponent        Achievement
                                   National Guarantees Fund it is expected to
                                   became more appealing for SMEs
                                   wanting to invest in EE projects.
2 - Utility    Establishment of    The UTE ESCO is organized and in
based energy   the UTE ESCO        operation. It was responsible for
efficiency                         implementing the UTE component of the
Services.                          project.
2 - Utility    Provision of        -UTE supported the distribution of 2.4
based energy   efficient lights,   million CFLs during the energy crisis;
efficiency     water heaters       -The provision of efficient water heaters has
Services b)    and other           been initiated through the labeling program;
DSM and        efficient           -Energy efficient equipment has been
Energy         equipment           installed by ESCOs promoted through the
Efficiency                         program as evidenced by the projects
Investments                        submitted for the EE contests.
by UTE-ESU
               Installation of     -UTE installed efficient public lighting in
               new municipal       two of four candidate municipalities,
               lighting            together with improvements in the networks
               equipment in        (approximately 1500 lamps were installed).
               three
               municipalities
               Reduction of        -UTE implemented the project in five poor
               losses and          communities with high levels of losses
               increased end-      seeking the legalization of connections
               use efficiency      through a social and technical approach.
               and payment         The initial reduction of losses was not
               levels in poor      sustained and the levels regressed. The
               neighborhoods       program was terminated.

2 - Utility    Provision of        UTE acquired 1000 SHS for installation in
based energy   SHS to low-         rural poor areas. It succeeded in installing
efficiency     income rural        around 700 systems and the remainder were
Services. c)   customers           donated to primary education facilities as
Solar Home                         part of the Plan Ceibal initiative.
systems.


3 - Project Project                The MIEM office was staffed with
Management Management              competent and dedicated personnel who
                                   tracked the project, provided twice-yearly
                                   performance reports, assisted in the
                                   preparation of the different laws and
                                   regulations, coordinated the actions of
                                   multiple agencies involved in project

                                          22
Component       Subcomponent         Achievement
                                     execution, and managed the project
                                     professionally.
                                     UTE-ESU: the UTE office had the full
                                     support of management and was staffed by
                                     competent professionals. Although its
                                     component encountered obstacles, UTE
                                     was able to execute it and to reach the
                                     project goals. Ultimately, it has put in place
                                     an ESCO which will continue to provide
                                     services to the residential, commercial, and,
                                     particularly, the government sector.
                                     However, several of the activities originally
                                     assigned under its responsibility (SHS,
                                     losses in poor neighborhoods) failed to
                                     achieve their objective



III.   Performance Indicators as stated in the PAD – Annex 1.

                                 Achievement of key performance indicators
                                                                                       % of
                           Indicator                Baseline   Target   Achieved
                                                                                      Target
Development      Market Share of Energy
Objective and    Efficient Appliances (%):
   GEO               Residential and Commercial        0        10         18          180
                              Municipal Lighting       0        20         63          315
                                   Water Heaters       0        25          9          36
                                    Refrigeration      0        25          9           36
                                Air Conditioning       0        25         n/a         n/a
                                  Electric Motors      0        20         n/a         n/a
                 Firms providing Energy
                 Efficiency services - ESCOs           0        10         73          730
                 (#)
                 Investment in EE Investment
                                                       0        22.7      22.3         98
                 Projects (M$)
                 Stakeholders trained on EE
                 practices (#)                         0        250       3200        1280

Implementation Labeling Program in operation         None               Achieved
  progress /   UFEE financed feasibility
                                                       0        90         17          19
   Output      studies (#)
               UFEE loans (M$)                         0        6.2        0.2         3.2
               Cost of UFEE financed
                                                       0        6.8        0.4         5.9
               projects (M$)
               EE investments completed by
                                                       0        5.9       6.32         107
               UTE (M$)

                                             23
                                    Achievement of key performance indicators
                                                                                            % of
                               Indicator              Baseline     Target    Achieved
                                                                                           Target
                     SHS installed (#)                    0         2000         757         38
Total project        Energy savings achieved (ktpe)       0          559         225         40
                     Avoided CO2 emissions (103
                                                          0        1,400         499           36
                     tons)
                     Avoided emissions of NOx
                                                          0          682         n/a1
                     (tons)
                     Avoided emissions of SOx
                                                          0          5.5         n/a1
                     (tons)
                     Avoided emissions of
                                                          0           46         n/a1
                     particulates (tons)
1
  The data is being gathered by the environmental authorities. Latest data only available as of 2004.




                                                24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1.      Project benefits. From a broad perspective, this energy efficiency project could have
generated a wide spectrum of benefits, such as:
        Direct benefits such as the reduction of CO2 emissions, as well as NOx and SOx
         emissions, with (i) reduction of damaging climate change and (ii) health benefits to the
         population at large. Of these, only CO2 emission reductions have been estimated;
        Efficiency benefits by providing better information to consumers on the characteristics of
         equipment they are purchasing, thereby improving the allocation of resources. The
         benefit from addressing this market failure consists of greater consumer surplus for a
         given price;
        Energy sector benefits derived from savings associated with a lower demand for energy
         from the distribution of energy efficient devices, such as CFLs.
        Benefits to the economy at large derived from a lower energy intensity (measured in
         thousands of tons of oil equivalent per $ of GDP)
2.      Quantifying these benefits is not straightforward. For the purposes of economic
evaluation, only the benefits associated with CO2 estimated reductions have been evaluated,
together with those associated to a lower demand and the associated savings from the introduction
of CFLs and energy saving habits. For the benefits of lower energy intensity, a study sponsored
by the United Nations’ Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) is
summarized below.
3.       Direct benefits.
         (a) Avoided greenhouse gases (CO2). These have been estimated at around 499
         thousand tonnes. The unit cost associated with these emissions can be estimated at the
         price of carbon certificates (CERs) which are traded on the carbon market. The price is
         very variable, and can be estimated in the long run to be between €10 and €15 per tonne,
         thereby yielding benefits on the order of €5 and €7.5 million (around US$6.5 to 9.7
         million). From a cost effectiveness point of view, it can be said that the GEF grant of
         US$6.8 million has accomplished its purpose within the project’s implementation period.
         (b) Reduction in peak demand and energy savings associated with CFLs. Limiting
         the benefits of the project to the CFLs distributed by UTE, an economic analysis yields
         the results shown in Table A. The CFL program would have yielded a NPV of $2.9
         million and an EIRR of 26% under conservative assumptions regarding lamp usage.




                                                25
    Year                               1            2         3          4         5         6         7         8         9
    # CFLs (Million)                 2.4          2.4       2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4       2.4
    Unit Cost ($)                    2.5
    Investment (M$)                    6
    Capacity savings per lamp (W)                 40        40         40        40        40        40        40        40
    Peak Coincidence Factor                       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1
    Peak Demand Reduction (MW)                    9.6       9.6        9.6       9.6       9.6       9.6       9.6       9.6
    Peak Cost ($/kW)                500
    Annual Cost ($/kW)          $66.94
    Annualized kW Savings (M$)                 $0.64     $0.64      $0.64     $0.64     $0.64     $0.64     $0.64     $0.64
    Hours per lamp per year                       600       600        600       600       600       600       600       600
    kWh Savings per lamp per year                  24        24         24        24        24        24        24        24
    GWh Energy Savings                           57.6      57.6       57.6      57.6      57.6      57.6      57.6      57.6
    Marginal Energy Cost ($/MWh)                   10        10         10        10        10        10        10        10
    M$ Energy Savings                           0.576     0.576      0.576     0.576     0.576     0.576     0.576     0.576
    Total Benefits M$                          $1.22     $1.22      $1.22     $1.22     $1.22     $1.22     $1.22     $1.22
    Cash Flow                       -6.0           1.9       1.9        1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9
    Net Present Value  12%        $2.90
    EIRR                           26%

4.      Economy-wide benefits.
In May 2011 the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLAC) published a study 3
evaluating the institutional effectiveness of energy efficiency programs in four countries: Brazil,
Chile, Mexico, and Uruguay. The purpose of the study was to identify the factors of success
regarding EE, and in particular the institutional elements regarding interactions among
organizations and barriers to EE to allow extracting lessons for advancing EE policies and
programs
The analysis is based on a study of the evolution of energy intensity—taken as a proxy for
efficiency—measured as thousand tons of petroleum equivalent (ktpe) per constant GDP dollar,
together with other factors such as GDP per capita and energy consumption in tpe per capita. The
corresponding path is shown in Figure A.
                                   Figure A—Evolution of Energy Intensity in Uruguay 1970–2008




3
 Ruchansky, et.al., ‘Eficacia Institucional de los Programas Nacionales de Eficiencia Energética’, in
CEPAL, Serie Recursos Naturales e Infraestructura No 152, May 2011

                                                               26
This figure shows the erratic path followed by energy intensity as a function of GDP per capita.
The semi-straight lines represent approximate constant energy consumption per capita. The
following features can be extracted from the figure:
       Energy intensity follows a relatively downward sloping path (except for the period 2005–
        2008), despite periods of regression associated with reductions in GDP per capita;
       Energy consumption per capita increases, reaching slightly over 0.9 tpe per capita in
        2008; this is substantially lower than values for developed countries (e.g. 3.2 tpe per
        capita in Japan or France, and 6.5 tpe per capita in the U.S.) but it is in line with countries
        with a similar state of development (e.g. 1–1.4tpe per capita for Brazil and Chile, 1.5 tpe
        per capita for Argentina, 0.75 tpe per capita for Ecuador).
In the absence of any other data, it could be said that the counterfactual to the EE project shows
that energy intensity, and therefore energy efficiency, is decreasing even in the absence of any EE
programs. As noted in the article, if attention is concentrated solely on the impact of EE actions
and a search for improvements, the result is “somewhat insatisfactory?.
Such a conclusion should be qualified by the following considerations:
       As measured in Figure A, energy intensity encompasses all forms of energy and all
        sectors, some of which, such as the transport sector, have benefited from technological
        progress (e.g. more efficient engines) to a considerable degree spurred by price effects
        derived from the energy crises and increases in the price of oil products;
       Although there have been no explicit EE programs in the 70s and 80s, UTE did take
        actions which induce energy conservation, such as: (i) a campaign to induce a switch to
        electricity in 1985, which coincided with the practical elimination of kerosene as a
        household fuel in a context of high excess availability of hydro generation, (ii) the
        implementation of time of day tariffs in 1994 which induced a switch of consumption to
        off-peak hours, (iii) the implementation of increasing tariffs for domestic consumption as
        an inducement to conserve electricity, and (iv) the company’s incorporation of EE and
        demand management actions in the 90s as part of its commercial strategy.
Despite the relatively inconclusive results from the economy-wide analysis, these considerations
nevertheless show that EE has a role to play in providing consumers with more rational choices
which are less energy-intensive, without compromising benefits and utility in their consumption
patterns.




                                                 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
 Susan V. Bogach                    Sr. Energy Specialist       LCSEG Task Team Leader
Nelson de Franco                    Sr. Energy Specialist       LCSEG Lead Power Engineer
Juan Carlos ?lvarez                    Senior Counsel           LEGCF        Counsel
Pilar González                         Senior Counsel           LEGCF        Counsel
Luis Vaca Soto                           Consultant                        Procurement
Luis Schwarz                    Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist   LCSFM Financial Management
Emilio Rodríguez                         Consultant                        Procurement
Enzo de Laurentiis               Sr. Procurement Specialist     LCSPT      Procurement
Morag Van Praag                     Sr. Financial Officer       LCSFM Financial Management
Rashid Benmasseoud                   Operations Adviser         LCSDE       Operations
Andre van Hoeck                      Young Professional
Jas Singh                         Senior Energy Specialist      LCSS2       Peer Reviewer
Walter Vergara                     Sr. Chemical Engineer        LCSEN       Peer Reviewer
Charles Feinstein                   Sr. Energy Specialist       LCSEG       Peer Reviewer
Fernanda Pacheco                Language Program Assistant      LCSEG
Supervision/ICR
 Daniel Jorge Arguindegui           Procurement Specialist      LCSPT      Procurement
 Daniel Chalupowicz            Financial Management Specialis   LCSFM Financial Management
 Mariluz Cortes-Gorman                    Consultant            IEGPS
 Ana Maria Grofsmacht               Procurement Specialist      LCSPT      Procurement
 Todd M. Johnson                    Lead Energy Specialist      LCSEG
 Ana Maria Kuschnir                   Program Assistant         LCC7C
 Ricardo Eduardo Lugea          Senior Procurement Specialist   LCSPT      Procurement
 Chandra Shekhar Sinha             Lead Financial Specialist    LCSEG
 Alejandro Roger Solanot       Sr Financial Management Specia   LCSFM Financial Management
 Lucia Spinelli                    Senior Energy Specialist     LCSEG          TTL
 Luis M. Vaca-Soto                        Consultant            LCSEG      Procurement
 Ivan Jaques                       Senior Energy Specialist     SEGES ICR Peer Reviewer
 Peter Johansen                    Senior Energy Specialist     EASIN ICR Peer Reviewer
 Fernando Lecaros                         Consultant            LCSEG ICR primary author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                                                     37.27
  FY01                                                                     63.28
  FY02                                                                     99.41
  FY03                                                                     83.89
  FY04                                                                    199.95

                                             28
  FY05                            5.82
  FY06                            3.10
  FY07                            2.22
  FY08                            0.00
                  Total:        494.94
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                            0.00
  FY02                            0.00
  FY03                            0.00
  FY04                            5.70
  FY05                           58.24
  FY06                           55.56
  FY07                           72.08
  FY08                           33.39
                  Total:        224.97




                           29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not Applicable




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not Applicable




                                   31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
                                      General Comments
One of the main results of the EE project is its increased profile and its incorporation into the
national agenda as a consequence of activities oriented to generating consciousness on EE in
society as a whole.
Another aspect to note is the incorporation of EE in other sector policies, as in the areas of
construction (buildings), transport, and social development, through joint work which was
initiated with the pertinent authorities.
Finally, international interchange has been possible through contacts with similar agencies in
other countries, and the participation in different forums to disseminate the different approaches
to EE in Uruguay.

Activities under MIEM
A new legal framework for EE
Among the project’s achievements is the incorporation of EE as one of the four strategic axes of
Energy Policy defined by the Government for 2008-2030. This approach was subsequently
endorsed by a multiparty parliamentary commission, which effectively has incorporated EE as a
state policy.
One of the principal outputs from the project has been the approval of the EE Law in September
2009, which establishes the framework for continuing project activities through MIEM’s Energy
Directorate, including its budget through the Uruguayan Trust Fund for Energy Savings and
Efficiency. Although secondary legislation to put the law into execution took a long time, this
was achieved in 2012 and the Fund is being capitalized at present.
A national EE labeling system was established within the purview of the law, which currently
covers CFLs, electric water heaters, and domestic refrigerators.
Regarding efficiency in buildings, the Montevideo municipality established minimum norms
regarding thermal insulation, with support from the project and using the technical norm
developed for this purpose. Similarly, the National Housing Directorate was enjoined to include
EE criteria when evaluating housing proposals.
The Law for Investment Promotion established a specific fiscal benefit for services provided by
ESCOs registered in MIEM’s Energy Directorate and classified under category A; to date 5
ESCOs enjoy these benefits.
Fiscal benefits were also implemented in the transport sector according to the efficiency of
different vehicles, which now favors electric and hybrid ones. CFLs also benefitted from a
reduction in import taxes from 18% to 2%, which was reflected directly in market prices. Based
on this experience, a new proposed law developed in August 2011 would eliminate VAT for class
‘A’ CFLs; it is currently under study by the Ministry of Finance.
Consumer information, efficient technologies, local capacity building, and cultural change.
Consumer information. The main consumer information activity consisted of the labeling
initiative, which was executed through a consultancy; it was complemented by the issuance,
through the Uruguayan Technical Norms Institute, of over 40 norms which cover CFLs, water
heaters, and refrigerators. The labeling effort was accompanied by a dissemination campaign
through the media to inform consumers, as well as updating the EE website.



                                               32
Adopting efficient technologies. Together with UTE, the “Plan a Todas Luces? exchanged two
CFLs for two incandescent ones, ultimately distributing 1.7 million CFLs; this was accompanied
by an information campaign which also introduced the labeling feature on the CFL. Solar thermal
heaters were pioneered by installing two different technologies in a housing complex; the
apparatus are being monitored to compare their performance with two other blocks of households
with different technologies.
Developing local capacity. The main activity consisted of the promotion of ESCOs and efficient
equipment dealers. Over 70 ESCOs have registered, of which 18 are in operation, and over 80
equipment dealers. Numerous talks and over 50 courses were organized to disseminate
knowledge on EE. Public buildings were the subject of 37 energy audits. A testing lab for water
heaters has facilitated updating the labeling norm for this type of equipment. Studies under the
project identified the solar, cogeneration and energy savings potential at the national level.
Cultural change. Energy efficiency habits were encouraged through numerous communication
and educational activities. The “La Energía es Increíble? book was distributed to 60,000 students,
and has helped as a basis for the development of practical projects by primary and secondary
schools students. A puppet show on the subject was particularly successful and has had over 100
presentations. An itinerant exhibiton (“Ciencia Viva?) includes didactical modules and has
received over 14,000 visitors. In 2009 the first edition of the National Energy Efficiency Prize
was instituted. On average there have been 15 candidates for the award in different categories.
Access to financing
Showcases. The project financed ten subprojects showcasing opportunities for energy efficiency
implementation, and the benefits for final consumers and ESCOs. Eight of the ten projects were
implemented.
The Energy Efficiency Fund. This fund was launched in late 2008 as a guarantee fund for EE
projects. It has been operated by only two commercial banks and it has only guaranteed one
project. It was modified in 2011 and was incorporated to the National Guarantee System, to be
operated through all commercial banks and making it more attractive. The line for financing
studies will partially reimburse the cost of energy diagnoses already accomplished.
Performance contracts in the public sector. Problems for implementation of EE measures in
public buildings were resolved by a law which allowed Performance Contracts with ESCOs to
remunerate them through the savings generated by their services.
Energy Efficiency Certificates. The EE law put in place a certificate scheme to promote EE
projects through income from the Energy Efficiency Fund.
Activities under UTE
PV systems. This component was initiated in 2001 with the acquisition of 1,000 SHS. The
project had difficulties in its implementation due to the economic crisis in 2002; 757 systems
were ultimately installed in isolated localities without access to the grid. The remaining
equipment was donated to LATU as part of the Ceibal plan for computer penetration in schools.
Public lighting. The objective is to change existing public lighting lamps for energy efficient
ones. The project had to include the rehabilitation of the public lighting network in many cases.
Three cities were chosen for this purpose; one of the projects has concluded, and the other two are
ongoing.
Reduction of losses in poor neighborhoods. This was accomplished through two teams: an
educational and social work team in charge of disseminating educational teachings on efficient
energy use among the communities, and a technical team in charge of disseminating appropriate


                                                33
technologies in these neighborhoods. Unfortunately, after an initial period during which they
declined, losses increased to pre-intervention levels.
Pilot project in the residential sector. The objective of this project was to target a community in
order to promote EE equipment by explaining its advantages and how it offsets the initially
higher cost. The chosen community was Ciudad de la Costa, next to Montevideo. The project
targeted CFLs and water heaters. In the midst of the project an energy crisis occurred, during
which UTE distributed CFLs for free, which annulled the project’s efforts. Regarding water
heaters, the labeling process is still underway, which has not helped the pilot project. Also, few
dwellers allowed metering equipment to be installed inside their houses.
Technical assistance for putting in place UTE’s EE unit business plan. The objective was to
put in place an ESCO within UTE (USEE); a Canadian ESCO and consulting firm developed a
plan for an economically attractive unit as a model for the development of other ESCOs in
Uruguay. This was a learning-by-doing process which allowed the implementation of the unit
based upon a performance-based remuneration, together with the methods for measuring
efficiency improvement. The USEE has signed 36 contracts and has billed around US$5.2
million; estimated savings of its projects amount to around 4,200 tpe and have avoided 10.5
thousand tons of CO2 emissions.
Lessons learned
Simplicity of design. The project should be as simple as possible to minimize operative
difficulties. In this case, there were two executing agencies (MIEM, UTE) with a single special
account operated by MIEM. This generated difficulties for the UTE component. The same was
true in practice regarding the procurement platform (SEPA).
Grant design. Any changes in the design of the grant imply lengthy procedures for changing it,
such as the key indicators. Spending time during project design to minimize and to think out
possible implementation difficulties is well spent.
Human resources. Although some measures were taken to allow for a continuity of activities
and personnel once the project finished, the pertinent instruments did not turn out to be operative.
As a consequence, there was an inevitable discontinuity between the finalization of the project
and the taking over of the MIEM’s unit.
Interinstitutional agreements were key to project success. The project worked in close
collaboration with URSEA, the regulating agency, with national certification organizations and
with the Uruguayan Accreditation Organization for the development and implementation of the
EE labeling initiative and with the Uruguayan Technical Norms Institute for the development of
norms applicable to energy efficient equipment. This also required coordination with the Customs
Directorate. Regarding education, there was coordination with the Primary Education Council.
Finally, there was a close collaboration between MIEM and UTE which helped in putting in place
the EE laboratory and cooperation for implementing different project components.
Procurement questions. A number of lessons were acquired in this respect:
       Contracting could be improved. In general, contracting procedures took at least 150
        days, and personnel contract renewal took at least 120 days;
       Purchases should be oriented towards the reduction of costs and risks. Procurement
        training should take place prior to the initiation of activities, including the Comptroller’s
        office (Tribunal de Cuentas) in charge of overseeing public resource expenditures;
       Reformulating the purchasing procedure to conform to the Bank’s norms was a
        lengthy procedure; unifying criteria and training in this respect should be emphasized;

                                                34
       Avoiding changes in procurement officers. During the project there were changes of
        procurement officers and changes of criteria which delayed numerous processes;
       Challenges to contract awards should be dealt with in a way to conciliate local norms
        and Bank norms. Training encompassing the Comptroller’s office staff would help in this
        sense (see above).
Knowledge interchange. During the project, the implementation of cooperation agreements with
different countries in order to exchange experiences was particularly valuable. Specifically, there
were interchanges with Brazil, Argentina (including the Argentinean Normalization and
Certification Institute), and participation in events organized by the Chilean EE Agency. There
was also cooperation with ECLAC for the systematization and harmonization of an EE indicators
database.




                                                35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
      Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 29525-UY, April 19, 2004
      Ruchansky, Beno et. al., “Eficacia institucional de los programas nacionales de eficiencia
       energética: los casos de Brasil, Chile, México y Uruguay?, CEPAL (ECLAC) May 2011
      Econergy, “Energy Sector and Capital Markets Assessment and Program Design,
       Uruguay Energy Efficiency Project, June 2003
      Law 18597 on Efficient Energy Use, September 2009
      Secondary Legislation Decree of March 22, 2012 which regulates the EE law
      Blanco, Alfonso. “Alternativas para la Función Eléctrica Nacional: Eficiencia
       Energética?, Universidad Católica del Uruguay, December 2010
      Mercados Energéticos, “Consultoría para Monitoreo y Evaluación de Avance Anual del
       Proyecto de Eficiencia Energética?, April 2010 and March 2011




                                              37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 33507


                                                                                                                 U R U GU AY
                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS

                                                                 DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                                                               RAILROADS

                                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                                                 RIVERS                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




This map was produced by           58°W                                         57°W                                          56°W                               55°W                                             54°W                                   53°W
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the
legal status of any territory,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30°S
or any endorsement or                                                  To
acceptance of such                                                 Uruguaiana
boundaries.                                Bella Unión                                                                               BRAZIL                                                                       URUGUAY
                                         To Curuzú                                 Javier                         To
                                           Cuatiá                                         Artigas
                                                                                   Viana Artigas
                                                                                de Viana                       Alegrete

                                                                                                               Cu
                                                                                                                 ar
                                                                                                                   ei
                                                             Baltasar     ARTIGAS
                                                                                                                     m




                                                                Brum                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                      Rosário
                                                        Belén
                                                        Bel
                                                        Beléén                                                                                        do Sul
                                                                                                                                      Rivera

31°S                                                  Constitució
                                                      Constituci ón
                                                      Constitución                                                                                                                                                                                                   31°S
                                                                                                                   Masoller
                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                         ed
                                                                                 Biassini                                              Tranqueras
                                                                                                                                       Tranqueras
                               To
                                                                                                                     a
                             Federal                                                                             H
                                                Salto                    SALTO                                                                  RIVERA
                                                                                                          de
                                                                                                     la                                             Minas de
ARGENTINA                                            Chapicuy                                i   l           Tacuaremb
                                                                                                              acuarembó
                                                                                                             Tacuarembóó                            Corrales                                                To
                                                                                          ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bagé
                                              ua y




                                                                                                                                                                     Vichadero
                                                                                                                                                                     Vichadero
                                                                                     hu
                                        U r ug




                                                     Quebracho                   C                                       Tambores
                                                                                                                         Tambores                    Ansina
                                                                          El Eucalipto                                                                                                         Aceguá
                                                                                                                                                                                               Aceguá
                                                                                                          Piedra
32°S
                                                                  P AY
                                                                    AY S A N D U                            Sola           TA C U A R E M B O                                                                      Y                                                 32°S

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ág
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ua
                                           Paysandú
                                           Paysandú                                                                                                                                                                    rón
                           To                                      Guichon                                                                                                    ro                            Melo
                       Villaguay                                                                                                                    Kiló
                                                                                                                                                    Kil ómetro
                                                                                                                                                    Kilómetro            eg                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                    329              N
                                                                                         Tres
                                                                                         Tres                                                                                                                                               Pelotas
                                                                                      Arbeles                                                                                      CERRO LARGO
                                                                                                                                             Lago Artificial                                           e                    Rio Branco                   Lagoa
                                      San Javier                                                                                          de Rincón del Bonete                                 n   d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mirim
                                                                 Young
                                                                 Young                                     Paso de                                                                          ra
                                                                                                           los T
                                                                                                               Toros
                                                                                                                oros                                     Santa Clara                   G
                                                     RIO NEGRO                                                                                            de Olimar                 Tupambae
                                                                                                                                                                                    Tupambae
                      To                                                                                                          Blanquillo
                 Gualeguaychú                                                                                                                                                       T R E I N TA                       Vergara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vergara
33°S                                                 Negro
                                                                                                            DURAZNO                                         ll   a
                                                                                                                                                                                     Y TRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Laguna                            33°S
                                                                                                                                                         hi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Merin
          Fray Bentos                                                                                            Pueblo del
                                                                                                                                                    uc                                                                                                         ira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ue
                                                                                                                                                                               Treinta y Tr
                                                                                                                                                                               Treinta   Très
                                                                                                                                                                                         Très
                                                                                                                   Carmen
                                                                                                                   Car men
                                                                                                                                               Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ng

                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cebollatí
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cebollatí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ma


                                               Mercedes
                                                                           FLORES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a




                                                                                                                                               Sarandí
                                                                                                                                               Sarandí                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      go




                                                                                                           Durazno                                 Yí
                                                                                                                                               del Yí                     José
                                                                                                                                                                          José Pedro                                                     Rio Grande La
                                                                                                                                                                              Varela
                                                                                                                                                                              V arela
                                          SORIANO                          Trinidad
                                                                           Trinidad
                                  Dolores                                                                        FLORIDA
                                        José
                                        Jos é E. Rodo                                                                                                                                                      Lazcano             Chuy
                                                                                                                                        Cerro                                       Pirarajá
                                                                                                                                                                                    Pirarajá
                                                                                                                                     Colorado                                                          ROCHA
                                                           Cardona                                                                                                                                                      Laguna         La Coronilla
34°S                             Carmelo
                                 Carmelo
                                                                                                                                                       AVA L L E J A
                                                                                                                                                       AV
                                                                                                                                                     L AVA                                         Velazquez            Negra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     34°S
                                                                                          SAN             Florida                                               Mariscala
                                                COLONIA                                                                                                                                                     Castillos
                                                                                          JOSE                                            Fray Marcos                               Aiguá
                                                                                                                                                                                    Aiguá
                                                                                                                                                           Minas                      Cerro Catedral                    Laguna
                                                                         Rosario                                                                                                      (514 m)                           de Castillos
                                                                                         José
                                                                                     San José
                            Colonia del                               Juan I.        de Mayo                               CANE-                                                                    Rocha
                            Sacramento                                Lacaze                 Canelones                     LONES                           MALDO-
                                                              Rio                                                                                                                                                                       ATLANTIC
                                                                      de                                                                                    NADO                                           La Paloma
                                                                           la                                                          Atlantida                              San Carlos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OCEAN
                                                                                  Pla                                         MONTEVIDEO                                      Maldonado
 0         25         50         75           100 Kilometers                              ta                                                                              Punta del Este
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35°S
                                                                                                                   MONTEVIDEO
 0               25                50                    75 Miles

 59°W                                      58°W                                   57°W                                        56°W                               55°W                                       54°W                                 53°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OCTOBER 2004
