                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                   Report No: 53502 - UY




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                        OF THE

                          ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT

                               DATED APRIL 19, 2004


               FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY
                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.88 MILLIONS TO THE

                       ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY


                              DATED MARCH 17, 2010




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




GEF    Global Environment Facility

GoU    Government of Uruguay

PIU    Project Implementation Unit

UFEE   Uruguay Guarantee Trust Fund for Energy Efficiency




                 Vice President:         Pamela Cox
               Country Director:         Pedro Alba
                Sector Manager:          Philippe Charles Benoit
              Task Team Leader:          Lucía Spinelli




                                     2
                                               URUGUAY
                                         Energy Efficiency Project

                                                  CONTENTS

                                                                                                                 Page
ANNEX 1: Proposed Changes ............................................................................................ 5
ANNEX 2: Appraisal Summary Update ........................................................................... 10




                                                           3
                                        INSERT

                                   DATA SHEET

                                          HERE



                 AFTER APPROVAL BY THE COUNTRY DIRECTOR

           THE DATA SHEET SHOULD BE INSERTED IN THIS SECTION

                             MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

               BEFORE SENDING A FINAL RP TO THE PRINT SHOP.

  DO NOT INCLUDE THIS INSTRUCTION PAGE IN THE RP SENT TO THE
                          PRINT SHOP.

NOTE: The Data Sheet can be found in the "Data Sheet" tab of the RP section of the
Operations Portal. Information in it is updated whenever such information is manually
changed in the "Data Sheet" tab at any stage during project restructuring. Prior to
sending the final RP to the Print Shop, it is best practice to confirm the information in the
data sheet before printing it out and inserting it here.




                                              4
Introduction

The purpose of this restructuring paper is to: i) process an eighteen-month extension of
the closing date of the project, ii) create a new disbursement category and iii) reallocate
grant proceeds.

These changes will allow the project to: i) deepen the cultural change in favor of Energy
Efficiency achieved by the project, ii) complete the implementation and further
evaluation of the Labeling and Standards Program, iii) strengthen the implementation of
the Uruguay Energy Efficiency Fund, iv) complete the Energy Efficiency investments
currently undertaken by the national electricity utility and v) have an accurate evaluation
of the impact of the project. Altogether, all of these actions will assure the full
disbursement of the grant (US$ 6.8 million).




                                            5
                                     ANNEX 1:
                                  Proposed Changes
                                 (1 page) if applicable:


a. What are the proposed changes, as applicable, in the project's development
   objectives, outcomes, design, and/or scope?

No changes in the project's development objectives, outcomes, design, and/or scope will
be made.

b. What are the other complementary changes, as applicable:

Institutional arrangements                                 ___Yes   _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Financing mechanism/Conduit                                ___Yes   _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Outputs                                                    ___Yes   _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Project Costs and financing plan (include summary tables) ___Yes    _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Financial management                                       ___Yes   _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Disbursement arrangements                                  _x_Yes   ___No
If, yes, please explain:

On August 10, 2009, the Bank received a request from the GoU to: (i) Create a new
disbursement category, and (ii) reallocate the grant proceeds. In addition, an amendment
to Category (3) was agreed with the GoU.

    (i) New Disbursement Category: The addition of the category "Works" under Part A.
          1. of the project has been requested. Works to be carried out imply small
          works to recondition two existing buildings into laboratories in which the
          equipment purchased under Category "Goods" will be installed. These works
          include:
          (A) building of metal mezzanines;
          (B) installation of light weight closures;
                                           6
            (C) electrical installation;
            (D) sanitary installation; and
            (E) temperature conditioning.

            Shopping procedures will be followed for work contracts, the first of which
            will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

   (ii) Reallocation of grant proceeds: A reallocation of grant proceeds (as shown in the
           matrix below) is proposed, in order to: i) assign proceeds to the works
           category, ii) increase the availability of funds for operating costs to ensure the
           sustainability of the PIU for the additional implementation period of the
           project (18 month extension) and iii) reflect in a more accurate way the costs
           under the goods category.

   (iii)Amendment to Category (3): The Second Amendment to the Grant Agreement
          dated March 28, 2007 wrongly limited Category (3) to Goods to be purchased
          under Part B of the project. Since then payments for goods purchased for the
          Project under Part A continued to be disbursed under Category (3), as it used
          to be before the Second Amendment. To address this situation, an amendment
          to Category (3) is proposed, to change the definition of the category to meet
          current practice and in the original way that it was envisioned in both the
          Grant agreement and the PAD, namely to permit disbursements for goods
          purchased for Part A of the Project in addition to Part B.

The following chart summarizes the Disbursement Matrix according to the Grant
Agreement dated August 13, 2004, as amended on June 22, 2006 and March 28, 2007
including the proposed changes:


Current Categories                Current         Proposed Categories              Proposed
                                  Amounts                                          Amounts
(1) [Intentionally left blank]         -          (1) [Intentionally left blank]        -
(2) [Intentionally left blank]         -          (2) [Intentionally left blank]        -
(3) Goods under Part B of         1,360,000       (3) Goods                        1,608,114
    the Project
(4) Consultants' services         2,000,000       (4) Consultants' services        2,227,799
    under Part A.1, A.3, B                            under Part A.1, A.3, B and
    and C                                             C
(5) [Intentionally left blank]        -           (5) [Intentionally left blank]
(6) Incremental Operating          300,000        (6) Incremental Operating         404,087
    Costs                                             Costs
(7) Unallocated                     740,000       (7) [Intentionally left blank]       -
(8) Transfers to the UFEE         2,475,000       (8) Transfers to the UFEE        2.475.000
                                                  (9) Works                          160,000
    Total                         6,875,000                                        6,875,000


Procurement                                                    ___Yes     _x_No
                                              7
If, yes, please explain:


Closing date                                                _x_Yes    ___No
If, yes, please explain:

On August 10, 2009, the Bank received a request from the GoU to extend the GEF
Energy Efficiency project for eighteen months from June 30, 2010 (original closing date)
through December 31, 2011.

The beginning of project implementation suffered from serious delays, mainly due to
difficulties in establishing the PIU and the UEEF. Later, under Tabaré Vázquez
administration, these obstacles were finally sorted out. The PIU was set up and the
project started to made significant progress. To date, implementation progress is rated as
Satisfactory (S).

If this extension is granted, the project will be able to: i) deepen the cultural change in
favor of Energy Efficiency achieved by the project, ii) complete the implementation and
further evaluation of the Labeling and Standards Program, iii) strengthen the
implementation of the Uruguay Energy Efficiency Fund, iv) complete the Energy
Efficiency investments currently undertaken by the utility and v) have an accurate
evaluation of the impact of the project. Together, these actions will ensure the full
disbursement of grant proceeds (US$ 6.8 million).

Even though the GEF allocation for the Uruguay Energy Efficiency Fund has already
been entirely disbursed, the Fund is still in its initial stage in terms of meeting its
objective. Two commercial Banks began operating with the Fund in the last quarter of
2009 and a small number of projects and studies have been guaranteed or financed. The
eighteen-month extension will offer the time necessary to complete a reasonable number
of EE audits financed by the Uruguay EE fund, to recommend investments to be
guaranteed by the fund and to monitor and evaluate the impact of all of these studies and
investments. The proposed activities will increase the development impact of the Fund
and the sustainability of the project.

The GEF grant for the Uruguay Energy Efficiency Project has adequate financial
management (FM) arrangements in compliance with the Bank requirements. The FM
system operates well and needs only moderate supervision. Project transactions are
subject to the external oversight of the Tribunal de Cuentas de la República del Uruguay
(TCR). The audit report for fiscal year 2008 had unqualified audit opinions.

The FM rating for the project has been assessed as Satisfactory (S) during both the May
and December, 2009 Financial Management supervision missions. Overall FM risk
continues to be rated as moderate.



Implementation schedule                                     _x_Yes    ___No
If, yes, please explain:

                                            8
An action Plan considering all the above-mentioned activities was agreed with the Bank
during the last supervision mission in December 2009




                                           9
ANNEX 2:
Appraisal Summary Update

                                  (1 page) if applicable:

Do the proposed changes result in significant change of impact (from original Appraisal
Summary of the PAD) in the following:

Economic and financial analysis                     ___Yes    _x_No
If, yes, please explain:

Technical                                            ___Yes   _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Social                                               ___Yes   _x_No
If, yes, please explain:


Environment                                         ___Yes    _x_No
If, yes, please explain:

The restructured project will include small scale improvements to existing buildings.
These improvements do not pose significant environmental risks. The project counterpart
will ensure that all construction contracts will include appropriate measures for safe
disposal of any construction waste materials such as lab chemicals or specialized
equipment that may need to be demolished or destroyed as a result of the works. The
laboratories funded under the project will operate in accordance with Quality
Assurance/Quality Control procedures appropriate for the safe operation of the labs,
especially with respect to handling and disposal of hazardous chemicals.

The proposed changes will not affect the Project Safeguards Category.

Exceptions to Bank Policy                           ___Yes    _x_No
If, yes, please explain




                                            10
