Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6840-KZ
TECHNICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
June 27, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 30, 1996)
Currency Unit = Tenge
I Tenge = US$0.0153
US$1 = Tenge 65.5
Market Exchange Rates
Period Average      End of Period
( Tenge per US$1)
1993
November                         4.69                 4.70
December                         5.82                 6.31
1994
Quarter I                        12.73                19.94
Quarter II                      35.60                43.29
Quarter III                     45.94                48.00
Quarter IV                      51.12                54.36
1995
Quarter I                       58.20                61.20
Quarter II                      62.65                63.35
Quarter III                     59.74                59.90
Quarter IV                      62.93                63.35
1990
Quarter 1                       65.90                65.10
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                                Country Assistance Strategy
DBMS                               Data Base Management System
DTUs                               District Treasury Units
EDP                                Electronic Data Processing
FSU                                Former Soviet Union
GDP                                Gross Domestic Product
GFMIS                              Government Financial Management Information System



GFS                               Government Finance Statistics
GUI                               Graphical User Interface
IBRD                              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                               International Competitive Bidding
IMF                               International Monetary Fund
MOF                               Ministry of Finance
NBK                               National Bank of Kazakstan
PEM                               Public Expenditure Management
PIU                               Project Implementation Unit
PSDN                              Packet Switched Data Network
RTU                               Regional Treasury Unit
TD                                Treasury Department
TLS                               Treasury Ledger System
TSA                               Treasury Single Account
USAID                             United States Agency for International Development






REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   The Republic of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency:        The Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance
Beneficiary:                The Ministry of Finance
Amount:                     US$15.8 million equivalent
Poverty:                    Not applicable
Terms:                      20 years, including 5 years grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Commitment Fee:             0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waivers
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign         Total
---------------------- US$ million equivalent ----------------
World Bank                                       0.0            15.8            15.8
Ministry of Finance                              2.4             3.5             5.9
TOTAL                                    2.4             19.3            21.7
Economic Rate of Return:           Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:            Technical Annex  Attached  in  Lieu  of Staff Appraisal
Report
Map:                               IBRD No. 23700R
Project ID Number:                 KZ-PA-37960
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION  ............             .................................. 1
II. OVERVIEW OF TREASURY SYSTEM FOR KAZAKSTAN ................... 2
Background ........................................... 2
Reform to date ......................................... 3
Implementation of Computerized Treasury System  .................. 5
III. THE PROJECT  .............      .................................   5
Project Objective ...........................   5
Project Description ...........................   5
Status of Preparation .........         ..................   6
Implementation Strategy ............         ...............   7
IV. PROJECT FINANCING, COSTS, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  .... . 9
V. PROJECT ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING ....                  ..... 13
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS  ................                  ...................  13
ANNEX 1. THE DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GOVERNMENT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM  ....                  ......... 14
ANNEX 2. TRAINING STRATEGY AND PROGRAM
SCHEDULES:
Schedule A: Detailed Project Costs and Financing Plan
Schedule B: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements and IBRD Disbursements
Schedule C: Timetable of Key Processing Steps
Schedule D: Implementation Plan
Schedule E: Cost Estimates
Schedule F: Supervision Plan
Schedule G: Performance Monitoring Indicators
Schedule H: Summary of Procurement Packages for Goods






REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Technical Annex
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    In its four years of independence, Kazakstan has made substantial progress toward creating
a market economy and achieving macroeconomic stability. Maintenance of macroeconomic stability
requires, among other things, policies that will hold the fiscal deficit to manageable levels.
Restraining the fiscal deficit will depend upon sound strategy and management on both the revenue
and expenditure sides of the budget.
2.    To boost revenues, a taxation policy has been drafted and a new streamlined tax code has
been designed and should be adopted by Parliament in 1995. An International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Tax Administration Advisor has been providing technical assistance in the development of software
for the tax administration system. This will be accompanied by measures to strengthen the Tax
Inspection Service, supported by United States Agency for International Development (USAID)-
financed technical assistance.
3.    Much work, however, remains to be done on government expenditure management and
control. Establishing a treasury system in the Treasury Department (TD) within the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) has been given high priority by the government and is a critical requirement for
sound management of public finances. Although the proposed treasury system would have linkages
with other government financial operations, specifically revenue operations, the government has
decided to address tax administration separately. Substantial work has already been undertaken in
the area of tax reform with funding from other donors. The World Bank's financing of the proposed
treasury modernization project to enhance government expenditure management and control is
appropriate and timely.
4.    A TD was formally established in the MOF by Presidential decree on January 27, 1994 with
the principal aim of managing the government expenditures, assets and liabilities. The Deputy
Minister of Finance was appointed as the Director of the TD. The TD has a current staff of 28 (
which will be 56 when fully established) and plans to administer a comprehensive and reliable
financial information system for the day-to-day management of government expenditures. To achieve
this, the TD has been assigned a number of responsibilities, including regular analysis, reporting on
the execution of the budget; cash and debt management; accounting for government financial
operations; and treasury system computerization. The management of both domestic and external
debt will be an integral function of the TD; a branch of the Cash Management Division of the TD
will have the responsibility of external debt management and all the existing external management
functions will be incorporated in this branch unit. The 1995 program of the TD included establishing
regional treasury units which will take over budget execution and primary accounting responsibilities
from the National Bank of Kazakstan (NBK), and introduction of the required reforms to centralize
fiscal monitoring and control functions in the MOF.
5.    Organizational development of the TD is only the first step in establishing an efficient
treasury system. Basic banking and accounting arrangements will have to be redesigned to support



-2 -
treasury functions and new procedures, developed to support the new revenue and expenditure
classification and to ensure that the TD plays an effective role in controlling government
expenditures. The government has decided to establish a computerized treasury system in a planned
and phased program to facilitate management of government expenditures and has requested World
Bank 's financing for its implementation.
II. OVERVIEW OF A TREASURY SYSTEM FOR KAZAKSTAN
Background
6.    Government treasury management is defined as a set of rules, practices, and procedures with
the aim of distributing funds, accounting for their use, producing periodic financial reports and
making cash resources of the government more productive and the borrowing of funds less expensive.
The advantages of good treasury management, principles of effective cash management and
institutional and organizational aspects of treasury systems are discussed in Annex 1.
7.    The current public expenditure management processes in Kazakstan largely reflect the
centrally-planned economic system inherited from the time of the former Soviet Union (FSU). The
role of the fiscal machinery in that system was in the elaboration and implementation of successive
National Economic Plans. In that context, the preparation of the annual budget was the comrnmon
responsibility of the central planning authority (initially GOSPLAN, subsequently the State Economic
Committee). The demise of the planning system in Kazakstan caused a breakdown in budget
programming and control mechanisms. The collapse of the unifying authority of the Party has left
local administrations with a degree of financial autonomy incommensurate with the accountability to
which they are subject. The role of the MOF in budget execution process became marginal, spending
units committed expenditures at their discretion, and the NBK performed payment/public
accounting/cash management functions. The MOF only controlled the release of funds to spending
units' accounts, and even that only at the central level. In this situation the MOF was mainly
responsible for reconciling information received from the NBK, ministries, regions and districts and
producing the statement of monthly outcome for the republican budget. Reports from regions
(incorporating details from districts) were forwarded to the MOF every month for consolidation into
the outcome of local budgets. The republican and local figures were then combined to produce a
monthly statement for the State. At all these stages, information was compiled manually with very
little recourse to automation. Little information was generated internally by the MOF, which
operated primarily as a consolidating agency with very limited control over budget execution.
8.    Cash management was also largely nonexistent. Very little capacity existed to monitor daily
cash flows in government accounts, cash resources were not used efficiently and expenditure estimates
were based on norms, not realistically related to likely revenues. Reliable and comprehensive
accounting information was not available on a timely basis. Responsibilities for fiscal matters appear
to be diffused amnong a number of different entities within the government. Inappropriate budget
classifications did not allow meaningful assessment of fiscal and economic data, which diminished
budgetary control.
9.    Successive IMF technical assistance missions have, first, identified the institutional and
conceptual weaknesses in the public expenditure management system, and, second, proposed a series
of reforms which the government has accepted and, with Fund and other external assistance, is



nearing completion of implementing many critical components. The major weaknesses could be
sunmarized as follows:
diffusion of responsibilities for fiscal matters among a number of different entities
within the government in addition to the MOF;
inappropriate budget classifications, based on productive and nonproductive
categories which did not allow meaningful budget monitoring;
an inappropriate legal framework for budget preparation, approval, implementation
and reporting;
lack of a macroeconomic framework necessary for formulation of the budget and
elaboration of revenue and expenditure projections;
lack of reliable and comprehensive accounting information available on a timely
basis; and
lack of essential cash and debt management capabilities; and the appropriate legal
framework for borrowing, recording and for controlling loan arrangements and
government guarantees.
Reforms to Date
10.      Overcoming the problems in the then existing fiscal system required adoption of a number
of reforms. Measures for institutional strengthening, adoption of the required legal and regulatory
framework, subjecting central and local administrations to the financial authority of the MOF,
introducing a new budget law capable of proper budget programming and control, introducing public
debt laws and a computerized debt management system, are among the reforms which are now largely
implemented. These reforms, which accompanied the establishment of a Treasury system, can be
sunmmarized as follows:
the republican budget has been reclassified to conform with Government Finance
Statistics (GFS) methodology and to be more suitable for economic analysis. The
classification system also addresses organization arrangements and is therefore
suitable for budget preparation, parliamentary appropriation and for computerized
budget execution. The new classification has been adopted by the government
and has been in use in Ministries and agencies since April 1, 1996;
a new budget system law has been drafted with assistance from a U.S. Treasury
Budget Advisor and substantial input from the IMF Treasury Advisor. It is in
the final stages of government consideration; and
internal debt management operations have been consolidated within the recently
formed Treasury Department (TD)--see below--and, with assistance from
USAID, the UNCTAD Debt Management and Financial Analysis System
(DMFAS) is being installed for control and reporting purposes;



- 4 -
funds are released periodically by the TD, based on cash flow forecasts and
expenditure plans of Ministries. Funds are further distributed by Ministries to
spending units.
11.       The development of comprehensive accounting information and a systematic approach to
budget implementation and cash management is best carried out through an integrated computerized
treasury system operated through a Treasury Department. With IMF assistance, the Government has
developed an integrated strategy, covering three main elements to introduce the computerized treasury
system. These elements are: (i) centralizing financial operations in a single bank account--a Treasury
Single Account (TSA); (ii) establishing a Treasury Ledger System (TLS); and (iii) computerizing the
TLS for the processing of payments and receipts. To date the single account has been established
in the National Bank of Kazakstan. A TD was formally established in the MOF by a Presidential
decree on January 27, 1994 with the principal aim of managing the government expenditures, assets
and liabilities. The Deputy Minister of Finance was appointed as the Director of the TD. The TD
has been assigned a number of responsibilities, including regular analysis, reporting and execution
of the budget; cash and debt management; accounting for government financial operations; and
treasury system computerization. As stated earlier, the management of domestic debt is now an
integral function of the TD.
Organizationally the TD has the following six major divisions:
(a) the Financial Accounting and Analysis Division is responsible for drawing up
monthly, quarterly, and annual reports on revenues and expenditures of the
Republican Budget.
(b) the Republican Budget Execution Division is responsible for assigning revenues and
expenditure under the Republican Budget, and for determining expenditure
requirements of ministries and spending units.
(c) the Monetary Credit Policy Division.
(d) the Cash and State Debts Division is responsible for cash management, internal and
external debt management, control of government guarantees, issue of securities and
interaction with the NBK.
(e) the Informatics Division, and
(f) the Supervision of the Budget Cash Execution Division which is responsible for
supervision of the recently taken over NBK cash settlement centers.
12.       Other divisions are responsible for development of methodological procedures and
financial statistics and analysis.
13.       The proposed project, to fully design and computerize the treasury system, is the logical
conclusion and important final step in implementing the series of wide ranging Public Expenditure
Management (PEM) reforms undertaken by the government.



Impementation of Computerized Treasury System
14.       The MOF is in the process of implementing many of the recommendations of the IMF
related to treasury system implementation. The detailed definition and computerization of the
treasury system, the subject of this loan, is a key element in the overall reform process, and attracts
a high priority from the government perspective because of the need to ensure sound management
of public finances.
15.       As mentioned above, with IMF assistance, the government has developed an integrated
strategy, covering three elements, to introduce the computerized treasury system. These elements
are: (i) centralizing financial operations in a single bank account - a Treasury Single Account (TSA);
(ii) establishing a Treasury Ledger System (TLS); and (iii) designing and operating the
computerization of the TLS and the processing of payments and receipts. The strategy calls for
phased introduction of the system in three main stages: (i) project preparation (1994-96); (ii)
implementation of a pilot automation system covering a group of ministries and selected Regional
Treasury Units (RTU) (1996-97); and (iii) replication of the pilot system across all ministries, RTUs
and District Treasury Units (DTU) (1998-1999). Each stage would start upon substantial completion
of the preceding stage, determined by MOF and World Bank acceptance of the deliverables listed for
that stage. A T reasury Advisor has been appointed by the IMF to work closely with TD staff and
the selected consulting firm, financed under the PPF, to assist the TD in design and preparation of
the project. Detailed description of the functional design of the treasury system the Government of
Kazakstan plans to implement, and the hardware and software strategy for implementing the treasury
system is included in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objective
16.       The project's overall aim is to support the new TD in establishing a treasury system: (i)
that provides comprehensive, reliable and timely financial management information; and (ii) helps
manage government expenditure effectively. To achieve this aim, the project sets three specific
objectives: (i) prepare a detailed functional design for the treasury system and develop related
procedures; (ii) provide and install the computer resources to implement the treasury system; and (iii)
ensure that local staff can operate and maintain the system effectively.
Project Description
17.       The project consists of the following components:
(a)    Design of the Computerized Treasury System. This component consists of:    (i)
preparing a detailed functional design for the treasury system and developing related
procedures and manuals; (ii) examining available software alternatives; (iii) developing
hardware and software specifications for the technology platform needed to establish the
system and assist in their procurement; and (iv) formulating a programn to train the TD
and other related staff and upgrading the Government's in-house technical capacity to
operate and maintain the system. A consultant firm was selected by the Government to



- 6 -
carry out this task. A Project Preparation Facility in the amount of US$1 million was
approved on July 14, 1994 to finance this work;
(b)    Pilot System Computerization. Based on the work carried out under component (a),
application software would be designed and procured to test and implement the full
functionality of the Treasury System at a few designated sites. Computer hardware
system and software would be procured to implement the pilot at the sites. At this stage,
user manuals, training materials and technical documentation will be finalized and the
local staff will be trained to operate and maintain the system.
(c)    Full Implementation of the Computerized System. Based on the finalized system under
component (b), computer hardware and standard software will be procured and installed
for the rest of the treasury system. A Government wide training program will be
implemented simultaneously for operating and maintaining the system.
Status of Preparation
18.       Detailed Functional Design. System designs and functional specification for payroll,
commitment accounting, revenue accounting, cash management, fixed asset control, general ledger
and chart of accounts (comprising a majority of the functions) have been completed by the consultants
and approved by the Government
19.       Software Alternatives. Investigation of available off the shelf software packages that
meet the functional requirements of the treasury system has been started. While conducting a search
for software packages the consultants will ensure that: (a) the software packages provide the required
functionality; (b) it is possible to obtain and install upgrades and/or changes to the packages in
Kazakstan as they become available; (c) the vendor for the package provides customization assistance
as may be required or alternatively the package source code is available for making changes as may
be required; (d) the costs associated with any customization are identified clearly in the total cost; (e)
the package runs on a range of hardware and operating software which is compliant with the
hardware and software strategy proposed for the treasury system; (f) adequate documentation is
available to enable package installation and use, and (g) licensing arrangements clearly specify the
liability for use of the package at multiple sites in Kazakstan.
20.       In case it is not found feasible to purchase an off the shelf package to satisfy the
requirements of the treasury system, the consultants will develop a plan for the design and
development of the application systems. In this case, the consultants will also extend the functional
analysis performed above and develop the systems and program specifications for the various
modules of the treasury and related systems. These would then be used as the basis for the
contracting (or in-house development) of the application software.
21.       Development of hardware and software specifications and acquisition of hardware
and software. Hardware and software specifications are being completed by the consultants and
progress was reviewed with the Government during the appraisal. The bidding document for the
procurement of hardware and software for the pilot phase implementation is also under preparation.



22.       Development/upgrading the MOF data processing organization. The government will
require the development/upgrading of its in-house data processing facilities to maintain and operate
the treasury and associated systems developed as part of this project. The MOF computer department
has a staff of competent analysts and programmers. A team of about 8-10 staff from this center will
be designated by the government to work along with the consultants. This staff will need to be
involved with all tasks associated with systems design, software development, installation and
operation. In case one or more software packages are selected to satisfy the requirements of the
treasury system, the staff will need to be trained in their use and maintenance. In case in-house
development is required, staff will be associated with the in-house development of the system or the
management of the contractors who have been selected to carry out the development.
23.       The consultants will analyze the existing MOF's EDP resources and develop a plan to
upgrade the data processing organization. This would include assisting the TD in developing a
training program for its staff including specialized training in the use of the various tools such as
operating systems and DBMSs application development facilities, and more general training in EDP
project management, maintenance and provision of end user support and training for a country wide
system treasury system.
Implementation Strategy
24.       Under project preparation, significant progress has been made to prepare for project
implementation. Detailed function for the treasury system has been completed by consultants and
approved by the TD. Bidding documents for procurement of pilot hardware and software are being
completed and progress was reviewed during appraisal. Broad outline of a training program has been
drawn-up and was reviewed with the Government during appraisal. Search for available software
alternatives has also begun. By loan effectiveness, most of the preparatory work should be
completed. The first phase of implementation would focus mainly on finalizing the training plan and
procedures and manuals for the new system.
25.       The implementation of the project is divided into three phases: completion of the
functional design of the system to be tested (as described in paragraph 18); a pilot phase to procure
and test the system; followed by implementation of the full system. Accordingly, the hardware and
standard software packages to be purchased under the project will be divided into two phases. The
pilot phase would implement the application systems and installation of new hardware at the central
Treasury, two of the central spending units (sector ministries), two oblasts and some associated
rayons to thoroughly test the features and functionality of the system, the integration between the first
and second level packages, and work out the data migration strategy. Hardware procurement at this
stage will be limited to the pilot project requirement. The bid documents for the pilot phase has been
prepared and submitted to the Bank for review prior to Board presentation.
26.       Based on the modifications made during the pilot phase, hardware will be procured for
the full implementation phase. Simultaneously, training of local staff would be conducted to carry
out the replication and subsequent operation and maintenance of the system.  Prior to the
commencement of the full implementation phase, a Mid-Term Review will be carried out with the
Government to precisely define the hardware and standard software packages to be procured, their
costs, and the implementation schedule for replicating the system country-wide. Prior to the Mid-
Term Review, the draft bid documents for the full implementation phase will be prepared and
submitted to the Bank for review.



- 8 -
27.       Pilot phase computerization. The pilot phase would implement the application systems
and install new hardware at the central Treasury, two central spending units (sector ministries), two
oblasts and some rayons to thoroughly test the features and functionality of the systems, the
integration between the first and second level packages, and work out the data migration strategy.
Hardware procurement at this stage will be limited to the pilot phase requirement. Once the pilot
phase has been successfully completed, additional hardware and licenses for application systems
would be procured prior to the system being implemented at other oblasts and rayons. Deliverables
for pilot phase include:
(i)    installation and testing of the hardware and software;
(ii)   ensuring that the hardware and software supplied by the selected vendors meets the
design specifications;
(iii)   ensuring that tested modules for the full treasury system, including the modules that will
be implemented at the central TD, regional and district units, and the ministries and
subordinate spending units, are fully functional;
(iv)   preparation of the user manuals and other technical documentation to enable the complete
operation of the full treasury system;
(v)    preparation of the training manuals for end users; and
(vi)   design and implementation of training courses for sufficient number of local staff to a
level which will enable them to operate and maintain the treasury system, and to provide
the necessary end user support.
28.       Project full implementation phase. Based on the assessment made during the pilot
phase, hardware will be procured for the full implementation phase. Simultaneously, training of local
staff would be conducted to carry out the replication and subsequent operation and maintenance of
the system. Prior to the commencement of the full implementation phase, a Mid-Term Review will
be carried out with the Government to precisely define the hardware and standard software packages
to be procured, their costs, and the implementation schedule for replicating the system country wide.
Deliverables for this phase would include:
(i)    preparation of a replication plan and schedule for the implementation of the computerized
treasury system;
(ii)   preparation of a detailed check list of the tasks that should be undertaken for replication
of the system at the treasury regions and districts;
(iii)   confirmation by the hardware and software vendors that the first two replications are fully
operational; and
(iv)   training of sufficient local staff capable of carrying out subsequent replications.
29.       Treasury system training. The training strategy aims to develop a cadre of professionals
able to develop and operate the treasury system, and to strengthen commitment to the reform process.



- 9 -
By matching the investment in systems with a parallel investment in people, the full benefits of the
system can be achieved. Given the extensive training needs identified, the chosen modality is a
cascade approach, the essential aim being to train limited numbers of key people who will then train
much larger numbers of subordinates. Two main groups of training skills are needed:
(i)    accounting, financial management and auditing;
(ii)   informnation technology and software applications.
30.      The following target groups have been identified: system developers and administrators,
applications managers, personnel responsible for transaction processing, end-users, personnel of the
budget bank, senior managers, accountants and government auditors.
31.        For successful implementation of the project, a separate unit is required for treasury
training, appropriately linked with the department for personnel issues and educational institutions
of the Ministry of Finance. The unit, with technical assistance from the project, would have the
general responsibility for creating and implementing an annual training program for the Treasury
Department, setting out the courses to be designed and delivered, their objectives and duration,
numbers to be trained, the locations for training and the necessary inputs from various sources. The
plan would be approved by the Deputy Minister of Finance annually.
32.         The main training modules would be: elements of govermnent accounting, financial
management, internal control and internal audit; overview of the treasury system (appreciation
course); financial procedures; transactions processing for budget execution; information technology;
application systems; site management procedures; and courses for end-users. The above would be
designed as permanent courses to run regularly after completion of the project. Training would be
provided principally by the training unit of the Treasury Department with help from other divisions,
and from selected commercial firms and training institutions.
33.         In association with the September 1996 project launch (see above), the first formal
training seminar will be held. During implementation, further workshops will be organized for
managers, senior financial staff, accountants and trainers in line ministries, oblasts, audit bodies and
training institutions. The training strategy and program and the Project launch are further described
in Annex 2.



- 10-
IV. PROJECT FINANCING, COSTS, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
34. Project costs and Financing. Total project costs are estimated to amount to US$21.7 million,
of which foreign exchange costs are calculated at US$19.3 million, or 89% of the total. Local costs
have been estimated on the basis of current and foreseeable salary and accommodation needs. Costs
for various components have been estimated in November 1995 using the experience of other World
Bank projects in the region, similar activities in neighboring countries and detailed input from various
counterparts. The estimates include physical contingency amounting to US$0.92 million, which is
comprised of: (i) 5 percent of the cost of computer hardware and related equipment procurement; (ii)
15 percent of the cost of application software; and, (iii) 15 % of the cost of training. All equipment,
installation, training and foreign consultant costs have been estimated net of taxes and duties. The
consultants which have been engaged by the Government to assist in the project preparation are also
expected to continue to assist during the implementation phase (per contract). US$1 million of the
$1.50 million is being financed under the PPF and the remaining contract amount will be financed
by the project loan.
35.      The main financial contribution of the Government, equivalent to 27 percent of total
project cost, would be the incremental staffing cost for the new computerized treasury system;
associated hardware and software maintenance costs for the outer years of the project (years four and
five); other recurrent expenditure costs associated with operating the new treasury system, including
computer supplies and communication charges; for the period covering project implementation (July
1996 to December 2000). The Government financial contribution totals US$5.9 million. The Bank
would thus finance 82 percent of foreign exchange costs and 73 percent of total project costs. The
Project Cost and Financing Plan is summarized in Schedule A.
36.      Institutional Arrangements for Project Coordination and Implementation. The
project will be implemented over a 4-year period in accordance with the project description in para.
17 and the implementation plan in Schedule D. Responsibility for project coordination and
implementation will be vested in the Deputy Minister for Finance, head of the Treasury.
37.      Project Implementation. To assist the Deputy Minister for Finance in the day-to-day
implementation and coordination of the project, a working group comprising six senior staff, five
from the TD and one from the Computer Center has been established. This working group has been
supervising the preparation of the project as well as the detailed work being produced by the project
consultants for the past six months. The quality of their supervision and inputs have been extremely
high.
38.      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of Committee on Utilization of Foreign Capital
(CUFC) under the Ministry of Finance will review and clear all procurement documents. PIU,
established in mid 1993 to handle several World Bank loans, has operated satisfactorily and is now
managing implementation of three World Bank projects and a number of other projects funded by
other donors. To help Government initiate the project, the Bank and the IMF will organize a project
launch workshop, after Loan approval, at which a team comprising the task manager, IMF Fiscal
Affairs staff and management, and computer specialist will fully review the implementation
procedures and requirements. Bi-annual supervision missions would follow, with a mid-term review
in March 1998 (18 months after effectiveness) when the Government is expected to launch the full
scale implementation of the computerized treasury system. The Supervision Plan is shown in
Schedule F, the inputs process, output and impact indicators are presented in Schedule G.



- 11 -
39.       Procurement. Under this Loan, provision is made for computer hardware and software,
training and consultant services to be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants" (the Consultant Guidelines) published by the Bank in August 1981 and "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (the Procurement Guidelines) published by the
Bank in January 1995. Project components, estimated costs and procurement arrangements are set
out in detail in Schedule E.
40.       International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Procurement of goods for all contracts over
US$300,00 would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following the Bank's
guidelines and the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents. These contracts are expected in
aggregate to amount to US$10.18 million.  To ensure compliance with the Bank procurement
guidelines, all contracts awarded through ICB, will be subject to prior Bank review. General
Procurement Notice for the project will appear in the July 1996 edition of the Development Business
Forum.
41.      International Shopping (IS). For goods below contract value of $300,000, with an
expected aggregate amount of US$1.0 million, procurement will be undertaken through International
Shopping {IS) with at least three bids from three member countries in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines.
42.       National Shopping (NS). Minor sundry items, such as small lots of information and
office equipment, not exceeding US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000
equivalent, could be purchased on the basis of prudent national shopping by comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines.
43.       Direct Contracting (DC). Goods and technical licenses which the Bank agrees: (i) are
of proprietary nature; or (ii) need to be compatible with other installed equipment, may be procured
through direct negotiations with property and/or copyright owners, on the terms and conditions
acceptab'e to the Bank. Such items include contracts for intellectual property such as books, technical
journals, training materials, audio-visual materials, computer applications software, including annual
upgrading and licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights for training
materials, are estimated to cost under US$500,000 equivalent in the aggregate.
44.      Implementation Consultants. The main set of technical assistance for the project has
been already been contracted with financing being provided by a Project Preparation Facility.
Qualified firms were invited to submit proposals for foreign technical assistance in accordance with
the Consultant Guidelines. The contract was awarded to KPMG Barents group for a total value of
US$1.5 million. US$1.0 million of this contract is covered by PPF, and the remaining US$0.5
million will be covered from the consultancies and training component. An amount of $0.36 million
has been set aside for possible additional assistance required during implementation. According to the
terms of reference and the contract, Barents group will assist the Government in the implementation
of the project.
45.       For other consultancies that may be required, selection of the consulting firns for the
provision of services will be carried out following the "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency," published by the Bank in August 1981.
To suumerize, following are the main components to be financed:



- 12 -
(i)   funding of the implementation consultants (US$860,000);
(ii)   advisory services to the TD, selected based on a short-list of individual consultants
(US$410,000);
(iii)  two or three contracts selected through proposals submitted by short-list of consultants
for: (a) training of Government staff on computer operation and maintenance; and (b)
national and local seminars on the treasury system (aggregate of US$930,000); and
(iv)   technical studies related to the treasury (US$380,000).
46.       Bank Review. For goods, the Bank shall review the Borrower's procurement decisions
and procedures in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines. In particular: (i) each
contract estimated to cost $300,000 or more; (ii) the first two contracts under each project component
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more; and (iii) all direct contracts; shall be subject to prior review,
in accordance with paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines. Other goods contracts
costing US$50,000 or more shall be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 of the
Appendix 1 of the Procurement Guidelines. For technical assistance contracts, the applicable review
procedures would be followed as per the Consultant Guidelines. However, for technical assistance
contracts under $50,000, the Bank will require prior review of only the terms of reference and short-
list of potential consultants.
47.       Procurement Monitoring. Information on procurement would be collected and recorded
to provide: (i) prompt reporting of contract awards by the Borrower; (ii) full quarterly reports to the
Bank; and (iii) changes in procurement schedules, including advertising, bidding, contract awards and
completion dates.
48.       Disbursements. The proposed loan would finance: (i) 100 percent of the foreign
expenditures of imported goods, up to 100 percent of the local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and
up to 75 percent of the expenditures for other items procured locally; (ii) 100 percent of expenditures
of consultants services (net of taxes), and training; and (iii) the refinancing of the PPF. It is
projected that US$3.27 million would be disbursed in FY97, US$6.24 million in FY98, and US$6.25
million in FY99. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999, and the loan
closing is expected on June 30, 2000. Disbursements would be made against the Statement of
Expenditure for contracts for Goods upto $300,000 equivalent and consultant (individual $50,000
equiv. and firms $100,000 equiv.) for which detailed documents evidencing expenditures will be
reviewed by Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and made available for the required audit as well as
to Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against contracts for good exceeding this threshold
would be made against normal documentation.
49.       Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower would
establish, maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US
dollars in a commercial bank. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the
Special Account would be limited to US$100,000. However, when the aggregate disbursement under
the loan have reached the level of $1.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.



- 13 -
Replenishment applicatiions should be submitted at least every three months, and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
50.       Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A PPF was approved and became effective on July
23, 1994 to finance the services of a qualified consulting firm to assist the TD to immediately proceed
with the preparation of a detailed functional design for the treasury system and with the development
of related computer hardware and software specifications. The PPF will be repaid immediately upon
effectiveness.
51.       Coordination with the IMF. This project has been prepared jointly with the IMF and
this joint effort will continue under project implementation. During project implementation, the Bank
would retain full responsibility over the supervision of system design and implementation,
procurement and disbursement. The IMF will be responsible for supervising the implementation of
the overall public expenditure management reform program and specifically the substantive aspects
of the treasury system.
V. PROJECT ACCOUNTING, FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING
52.       Accounting. The Borrower would be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the
funds provided by the Bank under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring
that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. The TD would establish
an appropriate accounting system to enable information on the proper receipts and use of the funds
provided in accordance with the Loan Agreement. Accounting for all Special Account transactions
and all other project accounts will be maintained in accordance with practices and standards
satisfactory to the Bank, with the objective of timely and accurate accounting for all transactions
under the Loan.
53.       Financial Reporting. The financial reporting would comprise statements of receipts and
payments for the reporting period from the beginning of the Loan operation. The reporting would
be in accordance with the disbursements classified and reported by the expenditures categories agreed
with the Borrower and specified in the legal documents. The TD would submit quarterly financial
progress reports, including separate report of the Special Account. A Project Completion Report
would be submitted to the Bank by the TD promptly after the completion of the operation, and in any
event not later than six months after the Loan closing date.
54.       Auditing. The financial statements and reports on the Loan should be submitted in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The criteria for selecting auditors would be as follows: (i) impartial and independent from the entity
to be audited; (ii) well established and reputable; (iii) experienced in the type of



- 14 -
assignment to be undertaken; and (iv) able to fulfill the terms of reference required within the
specified timetable.
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
55.       This project, providing computer hardware and software, training and technical assistance,
will have no negative enviromnental impact and has therefore been placed within category C under
the Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessments.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
56.       The proposed project would lead to significant financial and economic benefits to the
country. By developing the central treasury system and optimizing the budgeting process and debt
management, the project would contribute to reducing Government borrowing costs. Tools and skills
developed under the project would enable access to timely, accurate and consistent financial
information to improve resource planning, cash management, budgeting, and public expenditure
management and control. Improvements in the public finance management reform being undertaken
by the IMF would promote the capacity to properly formulate and execute fiscal policies. The
consolidation of various information databases, consistency in the classification of expenditure items,
and an effective system to control expenditure and monitor cash flows would enhance transparency
and accountability in the fiscal processes.
57.       During the introduction of an improved system of public finance, it may be difficult to
overcome entrenched positions, attitudes and the vested interests of bureaucrats, who have benefited
from financial uncertainties and lack of control. The Presidential decree setting up the Treasury, the
introduction of the legal framework for Government financial management, and Presidential decree
requiring adoption of a new budget classification system and its application for preparing the fiscal
1996 budget have, however, significantly reduced these risks.
58.       More specific risks relate to the nature of the proposed technological changes and the
need for adequate technical expertise. To ameliorate these risks, the project has provided for: (i)
preparation and approval of the functional design and hardware configuration by expert consultants
as part of project preparation; (ii) phasing the implementation into a pilot and full implementation;
(iv) cominued employment of expert consultants during the pilot and early phases of systems
replication and the close association of local specialists during these phases; and (iv) a significant
t.aining component included in the project.



Annex I
Page 1 of 10
The Development and Implementation
of the Government Financal
Management Information System
The Treasury System
1.           Iln the process of developing a TLS and an associated TSA, it is important to
recognize the interconnection and interdependence of all aspects of Public Expenditure
Management(PEM). Budget execution cannot be viewed in isolation, but must be linked to budget
preparation, budget approval, and cash and debt management. However, the TLS serves as the key
element within the Government Financial Management Information System (GFMIS), and is the
central component of the system, upon which other elements of the public expenditure process can be
built. This modular approach to PEM functions is illustrated in Chart 1. The budget implementation
approach presented in this chart is broadly consistent with, and will be linked to, the functions
envisioned for the newly created TD in Kazakstan.
E;xecution of budgetary expenditures
2.            The remaing sections of this chapter addresses in detail the proposed design of those
components contained in the lined box on the right of Chart 1, and deal in detail only with
expenditures. Revenues collected by the tax and customs administration would be recorded at an
aggregate level in the TLS, 1' and would be reconciled with deposits made in the TSA.
Overiew
3.4.          The various budget implementation activities (identified in Chart 1) are summarized in
information flow terms in Chart 2. The process begins with the recording of the approved budget
(and any amendments thereoo by the MOF in the TLS by individual appropriation items or revenue
estimates. Using this as a basis, comnmitmnent lismits may also be determined, against which spending.
units can make conmmitments (the comrnitment stage). A funds allocation limit will be determined
periodically on the basis of cash availability, and entered by the MOF against an appropriate
aggregation of appropriation items. When deliveries have been made, and bills received, the
spending unit acknowledges the fulfillment of the commitment and confirms an obligation to pay (the
verification stage). In the final stage, the spending unit makes (or authorizes) the payment. Revenues
collected are recorded on the TLS.
5.            The implementation of these processes could be in two ways, depending on the
linkage of the spending units to the system-direct (SUd) or indirect (SUi).
11     lThe revenue recording would be at a level of aggregation consistenlt with the esdmautes preseted in th
budget documentation.



AmI'
Page 2 of 10
CHART I
Government Fmancial Management Information System - Module'
Budget Implementation
Budget Executon
- Appropriation
_                         _    - Commitment
Budget  ~  1  - Verification
Budget               Economic AnaIysis                - Funds Allocation
Financial Planning
- Forecast of revenues and
expenditures
-Forecast of debt servicing
Fiscal                                               -Cast management
Reporting            Treasury Ledger System
(Data Bank)
Financial Execution
-Inflows to TSA
- Outflows from TSA
- Paymens
lnera adDebt Management                 - Receipts
Internal anid             -Itr
External ConLtrols          - External
Accounting
- Chart of accounts
- Accounting rules
-Conto1s
* Each module is a set of operaious utilizing the Treasury Ledger System (Data Bank)
(T   with infor=tion flowing both to and from the TLS.



Anmex I
Page 3 of 10
CHART II
Logical Flows-Budget Expenditures
Branch of Cash and                   - _   - - - -
State Debts                                                       SUd and SUi
I    .    '              .
|Main Budget   LS                                     -7t  , -
Departinent    _              Ministry      _    _     9 
m~                                    TIS               !
~Regional TreasuryjJ12
Unit           Central Unit
I_  .$ Il.
SUd                                                            _   Commeriial
SUd                                     r 0                        Banks$
Central    kO_-
Govenrnenrt II
Creditors*
L    J
---          hnfomadon Flow
<F -    Finai Flow
System Rcglsutdon (SR) or informadan provided by the system.
*     Supplien and public emnployea.
r=        E;dde sInke to ti sysm, and eadded w reeive inforatdontom it.
o ddes not linked to the systen.



Page 4 of 10
Chart 2
Logical Flows-Budget Expenditures (concluded)
1.    SR-Budget appropriation limits per ministry.
2.    SR-Quarterly limits on commitments.
3.    SR-Budget appropriation and commitment linits per spending unit, by quarter.
4.    SR-Actual comrnitments and verifications of ministries and spending
units directly linked to the system (SUd).
5.    Actual commitments and verifications of the spending units indirectly
linked to the system (SUi), in a paralIel systemL
6.   Information on the budgetary and financial limits to the SUi.
7.    Indicative cash limits for subsequent months, specifying the main
expenditures groups.
8.    SR-Financial releases (funds allocations) to the ministries, for each
expenditure group, taking into account the balances in the TSA and
ministries' expenditure items.
9.    SR-Financial releases to the SU accounts.
10.   SR-Payment order (PO) to pay the SUd expenditures, provided that they were previously
committed and verified.
11.   PO to pay the SUi expenditures, provided that they were previously
committed and verified.
12.   SR-POs issued by the SUi.
13.   Daily file of the payments of the StUd and SUi.
14.   Credit to commercial banks of the amount authorized by the SUs for payment to cental
government creditors (suppliers, public employees, etc.)
15.   Credit to central government creditors' accounts.
16.    SR-Information on debits/credits into the TSA.
(SR= System Registration)



AnneZ I
Page 5 of 10
Information flow
6.            The Main Budget Department prepares and registers in the TLS the detailed allocation
of budgeary appropriations by ministry, and advises ministries accordingly (flow 1). This should be
done within the limits of appropriation approved by the Supreme Soviet. The Department may also
set and register quarterly lirmits on commitrnents by ministry (flow 2) and by category of spending (at
the level of aggregation deemed appropriate). Ministries would then advise budgetary appropriations
and commitment limits to their respective spending units and enter the limits in the system (flow 3).
7.            Registration of actual commitments would be made in the treasury system by the
ministries and spending units directly linked (SUd) to the system (flow 4), or by the spending units
indirectly linked (SUi) in a parallel system through a Regional Treasury Unit (RTU) (flow 5). Tbe
SUi will be periodically informed by the RTU of their limits (flow 6).
8.            In the verification stage,Y once all the requirements for a particular obligation have
been met, the spending unit should confirm that the commitment is ready for payment (flow 4, SUd,
and flow 5, SUi).
9.            It should be noted that the process outlined above can be simplified for certain types
of expenditure, either administratively or by automated procedures in the treasury system. For
example, salary commitments may be advised only once a year on an estimated basis and adjusted as
necessary during the year. The commitment (and verification) of small expenditures (up to a
predetermined limit) can be entered into the system simultaneously with the order for their payment.
However, the system must lknow in advance which expenditure items allow such simplification, to
prevent misuse.
10.           To encourage advance planaing of the larger expenditures, it may be appropriate for
the MOF to propose limits on cash availability against spending unit expenditure items. These would
be advised to mrinistries by the Branch of Cash and State Debts of the TD (flow 7) in accordance with
the financial plan, specified by category of spending. Ministries would, in turn, advise spending units
(flow 7). The advance knowledge of indicative cash limits, as well as of quarterly commitments
limits, will allow agencies to make the best arrangements and to set priorities in a situation of scarce
resources, so chat any necessary cuts in planned expenditures can be rade in a more orderly and
effective way.
11.           After taking into account both the balance in the TSA and the balance in spending
units' expenditure items in the system, the Branch of Cash and State Debts would make funds
allocations (set cash limits) to ministries for each category of spending (flow 8), thereby allowing
them to distribute these fnacial releases (limits) among their respective spending units and enter the
limiits in the system (flow 9).
12.           Under ideal circumstances, the fuinds allocation would be consisteat with the proposed
1'     The verification stage of the expendiure pmcess is important in that it confirms an obligaion to pay.
Vterification procedures are normally carried out by the spending unit and recorded in the units' ledger, or im
other admnistrative docmeats maintained for this purpose.



Page 6 of 10
cash limits advised to ministries earlier (flow 7). Both proposed and actual cash allocation quarterly
limits would also be consistent with the quarterly commitment levels and budget appropriation made
on an annual basis, thereby minimizing the necessity to replan activities. The degree of consistercy
in the process will largely depend on the quality of the initial fincial planning process and the
revenue collection outcome.
13.          Following the verification for a given expenditure, ministries and spending units
directly linked to the system (SUd) would record the corresponding payment order in the system (flow-
10). The system would automatically check that the order falls within the fumds allocation limit set
for that SUd. The indirectly linked spending units would process a payment order through the RTU
(flow 11). The latter would check the payment order issued by SUi and register it in the TLS
(flow 12).
14.           At the end of each day, the TLS would prepare a file with complete information on
the creditors and payments to be made, as advised by ministries and spending units. This file would
be sent to the NBK which holds the TSA (flow 13), which would in turn transmit the relevant
information (and funds) to each commercial bank (flow 14), to credit to the appropriate account (flow
15), and debit the TSA. The NBK would confirm to the TLS the debits in the TSA (flow 16).
15.          Computerization of such a budget execution system through a centrally controlled TLS
needs to take into account the following factors:
(a)   the accounting strucrure of the TLS should directly reflect the structure of the central
government budget appropriation items approved by the Supreme Soviet, that is, there
should be a one-to-one relationship. It should contain one item for each head of
expenditure (appropriation) in the annual Budget Law, for each standing appropriation
(where such a mechanism is utilized), each head of receipt, and each refund of
receipts;
(b)    in many situations, the budget appropriation items will not be detailed enough for day-
to-day operations and management, and ministries (or spending units) mnay wish to
expand the chart of accounts to allow proper expenditure control and transaction
processing at a more detailed level. This can be achieved in one of two ways. First,
the central TLS chart of accounts can be expanded to accommodate ministry and
spending unit accounting requirements, with all transaaions carried out as described
above. Alternatively, ministries may utilize their own accounting (ledger) system.
This would allow much of the detailed transaction processing to take place on the
ministry system (and with proper control mechanisms to transmit the payment
instructions directly to the bank containing the TSA), with only aggregate data
consistent with the budget appropriation structure transmitted to the TLS. Ia the
initial stages of development in Kazakstan, it is envisaged that the first method is
adopted;
(c)    the level of existing (or proposed) computerization at the ministry and spending unfts
and the associated communication systems will determine the capability of units to be
directly or indirectly linked to the central TLS. This, ia turm, wiU have a significant
bearing on the requirement to establish RTUs. This aspect must be addressed early in



,Amex t
Page 7 of 10
the system development process, taking into account the existing relevant
comnunication infrastructure; and
(d)   the technical solution adopted will be one which ersures the appropriate integrity and
security of the goverarnent financial data.
RTU Operations
16.          The geographic size of Kazakstan, and distribution of spending units through the
administrative system of regions and districts (of which there are 21 and 280 respectively) suggests
that a substantial number of RTUs will be required. As mentioned above, this aspect will require
early consideration in the system development.
17.          Chart 4 illustrates the interaction of a typical the RTUs vwith the TLS and with the
spending units. The relationships described would remain valid, regardless of which option is
implemented for the Ministry FMIS, whether it is on an expanded TLS or is stand alone.
18.          The Ministry's FM2S contains details of transactions received electronically from
SUd (flow 1) and by other means (hard copy documents, floppy disk transaction batches, etc.)
from SUil (flow 2). The TLS records transactions by the mrinistries (flow 3) at an aggregate
level, transmitted from the Ministry's FMIS where the details of individual transactions are
recorded. The Ministry's FAGS also receives funds allocation data and management reporting
(the latter to assist with reconciliation between the TLS and the FMIS) from the TLS (flow 4).
The Ministry's FMS, in tum, provides funds allocation and reports to the SUd (flow 5) and the
SUil (flow 6).
19.          Any spending unit not liriked to the TLS through a ministry would report through
an RTU-as is illustrated by SUi2 in Chart 4. Payments and receipts information would be passed
to the RTU in hard copy or on floppy disk (flow 7) and be used to update the TLS (flow 8). The
TLS would then update the mninistry's FMIS (flow 4). Funds allocation data and reports would be
sent from the TLS to the RTU (flow 9) then passed on to the SUi2 (flow 10).
20.          The RTUs would be established where it is not practicable for individual speading
units to be linked to their parent ministry or to the TLS. An RTU mnight be set up to serve a
number of separate spending units, from a variety of ministries, in a particular area. In this case,
it would be necessary only to provide a single communications link to the TLS rather than a link
to each spending unit. In areas where the comrnmunications infrastructure is particularly deficient,
it might be necessary for the RTU to communicate by courier with both the spending units and
the TLS. As the communications infrastructure imnproves, the re4uirement for the RTU to serve:
as the link to the TLS would decline.
21.          The project provides for acquisition of computer H/W, systems SIW, appliuation
development and DBMS S/W, and application of S/W and technical training, required for the
implementation of the treasury system at the TD in the MOF head offices in Almaty/Akmola, the
RTUs, and the DTUs. Following briefly describing the strategy for implementing the
computerization of the treasury system.



Ann x
Page 8 of 10
HIW. SIW Strategy for Irnplemnenting the Treasury System
22.          The overall H/W, SfW strategy for the project is to assist specify the nature, size
and distribution of computer processing facilities and associated work stations; the nature of the
communications connections between the nodes of the network; and the naturc and type of
application development, systems S/W and Data Base Management Systems (DBMS), that should
be employed for the project.
23.          The H/W, S/W strategy for the project is determined by the characteristics of ther
application systems for government budgeting and accounting which may be summarized as
foUows:
(a) The application systems for the execution of the govermnent budget will
consist of several modules that need to exchange data with each other;
(b) Some modules will need to be implemented at multiple levels (e.g., TD,
RTUs at the regions and the District Treasury Units (DTUs) spending units.
Data will be generated, stored and processed at each level and will need to be
transferred between the various levels;
(c) The data and transaction volumes will vary by region and spending unit. For
the TD and for the TUs at some regions and some spending units they could
be quite high.
Hardware Architecture
24.          The application characteristics require that a distributed architecture be used and
computer processing power be located at the various nodes of the network (TD, RTUs, and
DTTUs). Where facilities allow and data volumes justify it, these nodes should be connected via
telecommunications facilities. The transaction processing and database management required at
each node should be carried out by the computers installed at these nodes. Summary or detailed
data, as required, would be transmitted via telecommunications facilities to the central computers
located at the TD in Almaty.
25.          The advantage of such an architecture is that it distnbutes computing power,
commensurate with needs, to different nodes of the network, thereby optimizing usage and
making it more reliable and less vulnerable to malfunctions at a single central site. rn addition,
end users at regional treasury units have better control over their technological and data resources
and this inculcates a sense of ownership for the systems they use.
26.          This architecture also allows more flexibility of telecornmunications faciIties. la
the absence of good telecommunications facilities, data transfer between the nodes and the center
could be periodic - say daily, weekly, or monthly depending on the application system - in an
off-line/batch mode. In the complete absence of telecomrnunications faciities, data transfer could
be by computer compatible media (such as diskettes).
27.           The size and distribution of computing power across the various nodes of the



Am= I
Page 9 of 10
network is determined by the volumes of data and transactions that are generated and stored at the
various nodes and the volumes and frequencies of data that are transmitted between the nodes.
formnation gathered from discussions with MOF officials has been used to estimate the sie and
location of computers. This information will be progressively refined by the consultants during
the preparation phase of the project, by undertaking actual surveys to gather data for each region
and district. The computer configurations required to be installed at the central TD, the
Ministries, the RTUs at the regions and DTUJs at the districts, and an estimate of associated co,.
is given in Annex II and are briefly described below.
28.          In keeping with the H/W, S/W strategy explained above, it is envisagede that the.
treasury system will be implemented using a distributed computing architecture. A computer
capable of supporting up to 64 users will be installed at the TD in the center; computs capable
of supporting up to 16 conacrrent users will be installed at each of the Ministry Head Offices in
Almaty; computers capable of supporting up to 32 concurrent users will be installed at each of the
RTUs, and one/two PCs will be installed at each of the DTUs. In view of the Government's
plans to move the capital to Akmola, the TD will eventually shift to Akimola. However, AlImaty
will remzin the main commercial center with sizeable activity as far as the treasury system is
concerned. Therefore, an additional computer configuration capable of handling the workload at
the new capital will also be required to be installed at Akanola when the move takes place.
29.          The NBK is planning to establish a Packet Switched Data Network (PSDN)
connecting Almaty with all regions and districts. This network is expected to be completed by
early 1996 and NBK plans to make this network available to all financial institutions in the
country and offices of the MOP on a fee for service basis. It is envisaged that the computers
installed in the treasury systems network will be connected via this PSDN network. In case this
network is delayed, the computers at each of the nodes will be connected via leased/dial up
telephone lines, as is currently being done by the NBK for connecting its Head offices with its
own regional and district offices. Currently the network is capable of supporting batch data
transfers between nodes, on a daily basis.
!9



,'yexc 1
Page I1 of lO
Software Strategy
30.          The nature of the application systems requires that the same core functionality
available at all nodes of the network. Thus, for example, the core functionality requirements will
be similar at all RTUs. The requirements at the spending units will similarly be identical.
Therefore, the same application S/W package would need to be replicated at multiple sites. This
characteristic requires that the application SIW be scaleable and be able to run on small or large
computers without major changes. Scalability can be achieved either by choosing a line of
computers of varying capacities which are fully compatible from the SIW perspective. However,
such a choice would restrict further additions to the network to this vendor and to this line of
computers. Alternatively, to avoid these restrictions, the application systems should be developed:
using application development tools and DBMS S/W that can operate on machines of different
sizes offered by several vendors. This feature is called S/W portability.
31.          Several application development and DBMS packages are available in the market
which are both vertically and horizontally portable. Ideally the way to ensure vertical and
horizontal portability and scalabiity at the various nodes of the network, is to choose H/W and
SIW that subicnbes to the open systems concepts. In practice, the environment that comes closest
to this concept is the UNIX envirorunent. Applications developed under this environment would
be able to run, with minimum changes, on any computer that has a UNIX based operating
system. Most H/W vendors now offer a version of UNIX as an operating systems alternative.
32.          The project therefore proposes to use UNIX as the operating system environment
across the nodes of the network. In addition, the application development environment chosen
will use Fourth Generation Languages (4gls) and Relational Data Base Management Systems
(DBMSs) and associated development tools, Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) to increase
application development productivity and offer a user friendly environtnent for data access and
usage.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
Trainng strategy and program
Training strategy
1.    The aim of the training strategy is to develop a cadre of professionals who will be able to operate, maintain
and use the treasury system both during its development, piloting and replication, and after it is complete. It is also
designed to strengthen commitment to the reform process by showing its logic and advantages, and by providing
participants with adequate information about the process, and their roles in it. By matching the investment in
equipment and systems with a parallel investment in people, the full benefits of the system can be achieved. Given
that the treasury system will extend to many sites and involve many people, the most effective way to address training
needs is via a casc.ade approach, the essential aim being to train limited numbers of key people who will then train
much larger numbers of subordinates. This approach requires comprehensive, and well documented courses, so that
those who are trained can then act effectively as trainers of others. Two main groups of training skills are needed:
-accounting, financial management and auditing;
-information technology and software applications.
2.     The exisience of several identifiable groups with separate training requirements, implies the need for a
modular approach. In addition, a large-scale familiarization drive is needed at the commencement of the project to
ensure that the nature of the project is widely understood amongst decision-makers.
Target groups
3.     The training component will prepare those involved in the treasury modernization project to carry out their
roles effectively. The following target groups have been identified:
System developers
These are the members of the department of information systems of the treasury department.
System administrators and applications managers
These are the personnel to be placed in charge of computer installations at the centre, in oblasts, rayons and
ministries.
Personnel responsible for transaction processing
These are the personnel entering transactions data into the system under the supervision of system
administrators and applications managers.



Annex 2
Page 2 of S
System users
These are the people who will be using the treasury system as a tool: to extract data, to check the status of a
transaction, to establish budgetary control, to order and pay for supplies, to pay wages, to manage cash resources etc.
Personnel of the budget bank
These include those members of staff of the budget bank playing key roles in carrying out treasury
transactions (e.g.managers and accountants).
Others
This category includes senior managers who need to understand the role, coverage and significance of the
system in relation to their supervision and other responsibilities; senior staff of the Ministry of Finance and
government auditors.
Treasury training unit
4.     A separate unit is required for treasury training. For successful implementation of the project, it would need
to be integrated with the treasury department. An appropriate relationship with the department for personnel issues
and educational institutions of the ministry of finance would also be necessary.
5.     The treasury training unit would have the general responsibility for creating and implementing an annual
training program for the treasury department, setting out the courses to be designed and delivered, their objectives
and duration, numbers to be trained, the locations for training and the necessary inputs from various sources. This
plan would be approved by the Deputy Minister for Finance annually. To carry out these functions, the training unit
would have the following responsibilities:
(a) to carry out assessments of training needs, including the needs of end-users
(b) to design both regular and ad hoc courses as needed by the treasury generally, and specifically by the
treasury modernization project
(c) to develop training materials on the basis of manuals, papers, systems and procedures developed under
the treasury modernization project, in a form suitable for training in all aspects of treasury operations
(d) to create comprehensive modular training packages as described below
(e) to schedule, organize and run courses in relation to the needs of the Treasury and of the treasury
modernization project
(f) to plan and organize short course training to be provided by contractors in close liaison with the
department of information systems
(g) to implement a cascade training approach by supporting the activities of those trained, to train others
(h) to carry out assessments of the success of training activities



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
(i) to co-ordinate training activities with the project working group and to liaise with relevant parties in the
treasury, ministry of finance and elsewhere on matters related to treasury training
(j) to liaise with professional and academic bodies overseas concerning training in government financial
management
6.     Given the extensive needs for training under the project, the treasury training unit would require adequate
funding and staffing. Initially it would have a head of unit, two senior trainers and four trainers. The
numbers of trainers in information technology would be lower than those in accounting and financial management
because of the existence of information technology skills in the department of information systems of the teasury part
of which would be available for training. During the period stretching from just before the beginning of the pilot
phase. to after the start of full implementation, the unit would be assisted by an internationally recruited training
adviser for a period of one and a half years.
Training program modules
7.     The main training modules would be:
(a) Elements of government accounting, financial management internal control and internal audit
(b) Overview of the treasury system (appreciation course)
(c) Financial procedures
(d) Transactions processing for budget execution
(e) Information technology
(f) Application systems
(g) Site management procedures
(h) Courses for end-users
8.     The above would be customized to the requirements of different users at different stages of project
development, but would be robustly designed to continue as permanent courses after completion of the project.
Phased implementation
9.     Training must be adapted to the three phases of project implementation:
(a) system development
(b) pilot site implementation
(c) full implementaion
Phase (a) The main aim is to establish a training unit within the treasury department which would work very closely
with the department of information systems of the treasury. Secondary aims are:
(i) to equip staff of the department of information technology with appropriate skills.
(ii) to inform a wide cross section of senior staff about the objectives and characteristics of the new treasury
system (Overview of treasury system).
(iii) to prepare staff at pilot sites for the change-over to the new system.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
Phase (b) This is the pilot phase. The aim is first to develop courses and training materials, and second to deliver the
courses as required for the successful implementation of the system at pilot sites. Given the cascade training concept,
each person trained will be briefed on this concept and trainees will require at least ten sets of training materials
besides their own, with which to train their subordinates when they return to their work. To ensure a reliable quality
of training at this level will require central support, evaluation of the success of training and remedial training where
necessary.
Phase (c) The training materials developed in phase two will be further refined before the start of this phase. The
same basic courses will be given in this phase as were given in phase two, with the exception that a full range of end-
user training packages will be developed. At this stage, many sites will come on line in quick succession according
to a predetermined schedule of site preparation, installation and training. This implies the need for adequate training
capacity and appropriate pre-planning of training resources. This may require the use of the best of those trained in
phase (b) to undertake some training responsibilities in localities other than their own during this phase.
Delivery mechanisms
10.    In terms of locations, modular training would be delivered as follows:
(a) at the project site in Almaty on dedicated equipment (small numbers of trainees)
(b) in the computer laboratory of the Ministry of Finance
(c) in a large computer laboratory in Almaty (larger numbers)
(d) at all implementation sites both at the time of installation and subsequently
(e) at selected institutions of higher education for classroom-based sessions
(f) at the training base of the ministry of finance
(g) other
11.    Trainers would be drawn from the following sources:
(i) the training unit of the treasury department
(ii) the department of information systems of the treasury department
(iii) non-training staff of the treasury department
(iv) selected conmmercial firms for standard, information technology courses concerning operating systems,
networks, communications protocols etc.
(v) selected academic and training institutions for classroom based courses
(vi) selected trainees who show talent for training
12.    Training materials would be produced in a standard project format and would be classified and archived in a
dedicated database for ease of reference and subsequent access.
13.    While most training activities will occur in-country, funds exist for short study tours for selected members of
staff.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
Project launch
14.    The project launch will be in July 1996. This will be a two day occasion, comprising a formal launching of
the project (first half-day)and a seminar for the rest of the time. The seminar will cover the
following topics, on each of which a paper will be presented (45 minutes) followed by questions, answers and
discussion (45 minutes):
(a) public financial management reform (an international perspective).
(b) overview of public financial management reform in Kazakstan:improvements in budgeting, expenditure
control, expenditure classification and the role of audit.
(c) the planned treasury system: overview, implementation plan and the planned outputs of the system (both
deliverables and the main financial reports which will be produced by Government).
(d) the planned treasury system: expenditure controls, commitment accounting and disbursement procedures.
(e) the planned treasury system: the role of information technology.
(f) the planned treasury system: training, the human dimension and the management of change.
15.    The project launch and seminar will be designed for an attendance of 200-300, comprising directors,
managers, senior staff and financial management staff of the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Kazakstan,
line ministries, government audit organizations and oblasts, together with selected trainers and academics with
relevant expertise.
Diffusion of the project concept
16.    Workshops will be organized both as a prelude to pilot implementation, and as a sequel to it. These events
will be designed for managers. senior financial staff, accountants and trainers in line ministries, oblasts, audit bodies
and training institutions. A separate seminar will be organized for staff of the Ministry of Finance including the
treasury department, before the beginning of the pilot phase.






Schedule A
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs(2)
(millions of U.S. Dollars)
Foreign         Component
Costs           Costs
as%of           as%of
Cost Components                         Local  Foreign Total   Total Costs      Total Costs
1. Investment Expenditures             0.2      14.8   15.0        99             69
Equipment
Standard Hardware and SoftwareM"  -        8.7     8.7      100             39
Application Software (            -        3.5    3.5       100              16
Civil Works                          0.2              0.2        0               1
Technical Assistance:
Consultancies                     -        2.0    2.0       100               9
Training ")                       -        0.6    0.6       100               3
2. Recurrent Expenditures               2.2      3.5     5.7       61             26
Incremental Staff Costs             1.2       -      1.2         0              5
Hardware Maintenance                -        0.4    0.4        100              2
Software Maintenance and            -        1.5    1.5        100              7
Licence Fees
Project Implementation              -        1.6    1.6        100              7
(inci Computer Supplies)
Communication Charges                1.0      -       1.0        0              5
3. Refinancing of PPF                   -       1.0      1.0      100              5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     2.4     19.3   21.7        89             100
' Physical Contingencies have been applied to the following components and are included in the costs:
a) 5% on Standard Hardware and Software
b) 15% on Application Software
c) 15% on Training
(2) Net of Taxes



Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Financing Plan(,)
(millions of U.S. Dollars)
Bank
Financing
Total     as % of
Foreign           Local            lTotal            Project     Project
Financing Components                    GOK          BANK        GOK       GOK          BANK         Cost        Cost
1. Investment Expenditures                  -         14.8        0 2         0.2         14.8       15.0            99
Equipment:
Standard Hardware and Software       -           8.7         -           -          8.7         8.7           100
Application Software                 -          3_5          -           -          3.5         3.5           100
Civil Works:                             -           -          0.2         0.2                    0.2              0
Techni_al Assistance:                    -          2.0          -           -          2.0        2.0            100
Training                                 -          0.6                      -          0.6        0.6            100
2. Recurrent Expenditures                  3.5         0.0         2.2         5.7         0.0        5.7              0
Incremental Staff Costs                  -           -          1.2         1 2         -          1.2              0
Hardware maintenance                    0.4          -           -          0.4         -          0.4              0
Software Maintenance and License        1.5          -           -          1.5         -          1.5              0
fee
ProJect Implementation                  1.6          -           -          1.6         -          1.6              0
(include. computer supplies)
Communication Charges                    -           -          1.0         1.0         -          I 0              0
3. Refinancing PPF                          -          1.0          -          -           10         1 0            100
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING                    3.5        15.8         2.4         5.9        15.8       21.7             73
(1) -Net of raxes



Schedule B
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(millions of U.S. Dollars)
Procurement Method
Project Elements             ICB(I)           Other             N-B F 4          Total Cost
Computer     Hardware.         10.2              2.0 2                -                12.2
System    Software,   &
Application S/W               (10.2)             (2.0)                                (12.2
Consultant Services and         -                2.6,                 -                 2.6
Training                                         (2.6)                                 (2.6)
Refinancing of PPF                                1.0                 -                 1.0
(1.0)               -                (1.0)
Civil Works                                        -                 0.2                0.2
Incremental Staff Costs                            -                 1.2                1.2
Hardware Maintenance                               -                 0.4               0.4
Software Maintenance and                 -                          1.50               1.50
License Fee
Project Implementation          -                                    1.6                1.6
Communication Charges           -                  -                 1.0                1.0
Total                          10.2               5.6                5.9               21.7
(10.2)            (5.6)                                 (I5.8)
Note: Numbers in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IBRD.
I - International Competetive Bidding
2 - International Shopping (limited to aggregate total of USS 1,000,000); National shopping (limited to an
aggregate total of US$500,000); Direct Contracting (limited to aggregate USS500,000).
3 - According to "The Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981
4 - Non-Bank Financed



Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Disbursement Category
(millions of U.S. Dollars)
Category                   Amount of Loan Allocation     % of Expenditure to be
(USS million)               Financed (2)
1. Goods
Standard Hardware, Systems Software and          11.4             100% of foreign expenditures
Application Software                                              1000/o of local expenditures (ex-
factory) and 75% of local
expenditure for locally procured
goods
2. Consultancies and Training                       2.5                        100%
3. Refinancing PPF                                  1.0                        100%
4. Unallocated                                      0.9
TOTAL                                               15.8
(2) All expenditures to be financed will be net of taxes. Maintenance and license fees covered by the World
Bank is limited to the warranty and maintenance contract that are attached to the initial purchase of the
hardware and software under the Investmnent Program (usually for three years). Subsequently, maintenance
and license costs will be funded by the Government.
Estimated Bank Disbursements
(USS millions)
FY97           FY98            FY99
Annual                         3.3             6.2              6.3
Cumulative                     3.3             9.5             15.8



Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION P'ROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Steps
Time taken to prepare: 24 Monthis
(a) Project prepared by: Governmcnt. uith the assisn3nce ot rld Bank and IMF staff
(b) Preparation/Preappraisal: December 1995
(c) Appraisal mission: March 1996
(d) Negotiations: April 1996
(e) Board presentation: July 1 996
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1996
(g) Expected project completion: June 2000
Responsibility for Project Preparation
Task Manager:          Motoo Konishi ' Mohanimad R. Ghasirni
Assistant Task Manager: Ali Hashin;
ProJect 'ream:         Motoo Konishi. Mohammad R. Ghasim! (EC 3C! An i iashim. Peter Dean
(EMTPM): Alan Pearson (IMF - Fiscal Affairs): Natasha Beisenova (EC3AA)
Division Chief:        Kadir Tanju Yuttrukoglu
Department Director:    Yukon Huang
Region Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Peer Reviewers:        William Allan (!' MF Fiscal Affairs) and Luis-jose Mejia (LA ] PS)



Kazakstan- Treasury Modernization Project - Project Implementation Plan                                                                                         Annex D
1995                11996                  1997                  1998                 1999
ID   Task Name                                       Duration  Qtr  Qtr  Qtr4 1Qr 1 Qtr2 Qtr 3Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2lQtr3 Qtr4iQtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3lQtr4l tr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr4
I    Bank Project Processing                             51 d                3/25                   .                           3116
2        Appraisal                                         1w 3w25  3129
3        Negotiations                     -1w                                   41
4        Board Approval                                    Od                     6/h 4    14
S        Loan Effectiveness                                Od                           9/6    9/6
6        Project Launch                                    Od                               7/15
7        Mid-term review                                   Od                                                                   3/16
8    Project Implementation                             1035d       11/1
9        Develop Functional Design                       170d       11/1                   6/25
10            Finalize Revised Budget Classification      24w                         4/16
Structure
11            Design Processes & Procedures for           24w         11 1            4/16
Expenditure Control & Treasury                                                                              :
12            Finalize Chart of Accounts                  24w         1               4/16
13            Develop Transaction Documents               24w                         4/16
14            Develop Information Flows                   24w         1 1            414/16
15            Complete High Level Functional Design        Od                  4/16 *  4/16
16            Develop Detailed Procedures, Formats,      170d        11/1                   6/25
Regulations and Operating Manuals,
17                Develop Reporting Formats               24w                         4/16
18                Develop Regulations and Treasury        32w                            6/11
Instructions     __---_:_*_:
19                Develop Operating Manuals and           32w         111                6/11
Directives
20                Review and Approve Instructions and      2w                 0 1    1'6/25
Operating Manuals and Directives
21                Processes, procedures and manuals        Od                 I   625 *  6/25
completed
22        Training Design and Implementation             919d
Page 1



x)
C~
,4.
CD,
01)
C- 
CY,
14.
C2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
N
CY
E
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0(
4)                                                0     Cc
p                                co   m~~~~~~U)c~                                                    C
4)  'a    m                 x     u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=                        4
E          4     2                                 E CD.2  .a
a)                          C EE                                                                0 .  4    C))  
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E1                                                      . 2         'A
lm    0    0)    .                 U                     I-                                                        E
en   m    a       a          U)                     .2                                            cmC CU
.N             pp S~~I..                         4) r)a-  2                                       <U)m 
IS                                  E                   cm                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   E ~ O
2                      - ~~~                             Z .                     u    m       'O'
.~~~~                                                                                       0.~~.
Cu~~~~~~~~oC
aCa                                          a a-    NA 
m  IDe    0                           E~i N N    C)   C) CC   I)             C)   C) IC             C    - 
E                                                    >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



Kazakstan- Treasury Modernization Project - Project Implementation Plan                                                                                            Annex D
1995                  1996                  1997                  1998                  1999
ID    Task Name                                       Duration    rt3Qtr4 Qtr1Qtr2Qtr31rt4 Qtr1    Q3                     4Qtr1Qtr 2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1Qtr 2 Qtr 3|Qtr4
45            Obtain Bank Clearance                         2w                     5      5/29
5/16 1 5/29 
46            Issue tender documents (ICB)                  2w                      5    B
47            Tender Documents Issued                        Od                       7/
48            Hold bidders conference                        ld
.  7 16 7 16
49            Set up evaluation committee                   2w                      51   5/14
50            Receive Bids                                  1w                            8      9/3
8/28  913                 
51            Evaluate bids                               iOOd                            9     ,/21
9 l4w     11/21
52                Evaluate technical bids against           4w                                    101
mandatories                             _  _.
53                Finalize shorlist on basis on              Od                 :                    /1
mandatories
54                Demonstration of package with test        3w                               0        2
models                                          .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10/2  D1/22 
55                Finalize technical evaluation             1w                              1        0
0       ~~~10/23    0/29
56                Revise technical specifications based     1w                                 3 ./.
on test results
57                Bank approval of Part I evaluation        2w                                1      1
11/6   L1119         
58                Invite price bids including adjusted      3w                  :                      2
technical bids from shortlisted                                            1       ,
59                Receive price bids                         Od                      .
.   12V10      12110                                    :
60                Evaluate price bids and select vendor     4w
121  117
of choice
61                Bank approval of Part II evaluation       2w                                     1 8    2
_  _  _                    .             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8. 1121
62            Award contract                                Od                                    /       1/21
____                 .          ~~~~~~~~~~1/2         1121
63            Customize/Setup Application SNV              16w                                     /   .         13
f    .       ~~~1122 *    5/13
64            Application       ready                        Od                                         5/3       /13
65       Install Systems                                  230d                       .               _1_2_
_                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/8 s       __11126
66            Prepare Site                                 16w                                     1  :          9
Page 3 ,___  1  9
Page 3



Kazakstan- Treasury Modernization Project - Project Implementation Plan                                                                                       Annex D
1995                 1996                 1997                  1998                 1999
ID   Task Name                                      Duration   tr=2  Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtrl lQtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4
67           Receive HAN and Systems SNV for Pilot        2w                                     2/19
Sites                                    __ 
68           Install HNV and Systems Software at Pilot    8w                                         43       6/24
Sites                                                          .
69           Develop training program and materials      12,.                                          /         /23
(Part of Application Specification Training)
70           Ongoing customization of core application   32w
sm
71           Prepare data for pilot                      32w                                   1/22               9/2
72           Install and Test Application SNV (Pilot     12w                                            6/25       9/16
Sites)
73           Train Users at Pilot Sites (Part of         12w                                                B/20      11/11
______          Application Specification Training)  -
74           Evaluate pilot implementation program        2w                                                    11/12  l1/25
and revise replication work plan    _____
75           Complete Pilot System Installation            Od                                                  11/25     11/25
(Treasury ops.)
76       Replicate at Remaining Sites                   495d                                                   1112
77           Procure H/W for Replication                155d
78               Prepare Bidding Documents                4w                                                    11/26    12123
79               Obtain Bank Clearance                    2w                                                      12/24   1/6
80               Issue tender documents (ICB)             2w                                                         1/7   1/20
81                Hold bidders conference                 2w                                                         1/21
82               Set up evaluation committee              2w                                                      12/24   1/6
83                Receive and Evaluate Bids               9w                                                              4/1    6/2
84                Prepare Report                          2w                                                                  6/3
85               Obtain Bank clearance                    2w                                                                 6117
86               Award contract                            Od                                                                6/30 t63O
87            Replication                               475d                                                     12/24
88               Prepare Site                            52w                                                      12/24
Page 4



Kazakstan- Treasury Modernization Project - Project Implementation Plan                                                                                       Annex D
1995                 1996                 1997         |        1998                 1999
ID   Task Name                                      Duration  Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtf 31 Qtr4  1|tr  Qtr 2 QtrQ3 tr4 Qtr I Qtr 21 Qtr 3  tr 4 jQtr I |Qtr 21 Qtr 31 Qtr 4
89                Receive HNv and Systems SNV            52w                                                                   711 ~j61  S
90               Install HM and Systems Software         52w                                                                    7)2                         '27
91               Install and Test Application S/N        52w                                                                        1O2\            -10/
92               Revise training material (Part of       40w                       *l/                                                   117
Application Specification Training)  ._____
93               Train Users (Part of Application        52w
Specification Training)             __                     .    .                                                                               '
94               Complte Replication                       Od                .    .
95       Project Complete                                  Od                                                                                           1011     1
Page 5



blledule E
Summary of Costs                                               Page  1 of 11
Hardware Costs
Central Tre sury         DTUs                    RTUs            . Line Ministries              Total
Nbr Units Total Cost Nbr Units Total Cost    Nbr Units Total Cost Nbr Units Total Cost Nbr Units     Totlu Cost
Servers                                 2    90,00(1        20       810,000                             40   800,000              62   1,700,000
Workstations                           85   170,000        480       960,000       506  1,01 2,0(0      320   640,000           1,391   2,782,000
Printers                               10    28,000         81        90.000       253   253,000         40    40,000            384    411,000
Communication devices                 134    50,825        700       175,000      1,771   379,500       520    68,000           3,125    673.325
Cabling and others                  2,550      4,550     5,3501        6,400     7,590      7,590    12,000     16,000         27,490     34,540
UPS                                            1,000        20        20,000                             40    40,000             61      61,000
Total Hardware Cost                          344,375          1    2,061,400            1,652,090            1,604,000                  5,661,865
Software Costs
Central Tr asury         DTUs                    RTUs          _ Line Ministries                Total
Nbr Units Total Cost Nbr Units Total Cost    Nbr Units Total Cost Nbr Units Total Cost Nbr Units     Total Cost
Operating System                               2,500                  14,200                                    26,0()(                   42,700
NOS                                            2,200)                 22,000                                    44,(X)1                   68,20()
Presentation Manager (Windows)                 5,220                  38,700               22,77(0              14,40(0                   81,090
Financial Management Application              92,0(0)              1,350,000              506,000             240,000)                 2,188,000
Application Software Modification          1,000,00(                                                                                    1,000,000
Office Automation                             38,(XX)                 28,975                                     6,350                    73.325
Network Management                            19,0W                  380,000                                   760,000                  1,159,000
Development Tools                             43,000                                                                                      43.000
Development RDBMS                             25,000                                                                                      25,000
Total Software Cost    -1,226,920                                  1,833,875              528,770            1,090,750             0  4,680,315
Toal Hardwae and Saftware Cost                                                                                                         10,342,180
Tremasury Modemization Project



Schedule E
Operating Costs                                                                     Page 2 of 11
Element                                               Ty  e               1996          1997           1998           1999          2000
Incremental Payroll                                    LC               19.5C((       21,450         23,595         25,955        28,550
Hardware Maintenance Contralcl                         LC                            162,649        162,649       162,649        417,(49
Application Soitware Suipport Contract                 LC                           218,80(0       218,800        218,800(       218,800
Staff Training                                         LC/FC          344,042         86,010         86,01()        86,01(0       86,01(0
RDBMS Licence Fees                                     FC                             75,000         75,000         75,000        75,000
OA and Other Software Licence Fees                     LC             130,0)33      260,065        260,065        260,065        260,065
Postage and miscellaneous communication                LC               6,000          6,600          7.260          7,986          8.785
Computer supplies                                      LC             429,60(0      472,560        519,8 16       571.798        628.97 7
Leased line installation charges                       LC               4,000        116.(00
Monthly communication charges                          LC             196.00()      396,000        396.000        '960(H)0       396,0(10
ITotal                                                              1,329,174   1,815,134   1,749,195   1,804,262   2,119,836
LC - Local Currency, FC - Foreign Currency
Basis for Estimation
1. Incremental payroll costs have been computed based on an incicase in the numrer (if staff by 13. Average anunual salary is $ i SWO.
2 lHardware maintenance contract is assumed to be i55 , of hardware valuc. Since a 3 year wananry is standard lor most servers,
these costs have been included in year 4 onwards. Maintenance costs for prnnters and coin-lsunwcation devices have been included Ironm  ear i
.3. Application software support contract is estirmatied at 10% of the software c.sts for the financial mausag eiient applicafioni so,ftware
4. Staffitraining is based on costs derived for il iraining  nly. hi is assumed that this traufing will be provided in Aliiiary
and other designated oblasts.
S. OA and other software licenice fees include sofiware licence fees for oltice autonrsatio; software and software for network maulagensent, developmenit tools,
and the development RDBMS. Annual support charges have been estimated to be at 20% of initial cost.
6. Postage and miscellaneosus communication fees are estimated at $500 per nmonth with a 10% annual inflation.
7. Computer supplies are estimated to be $500 per month for the Central Treasury and the Oblasts and $50 per month for each rayon.
Corresponding figures for the line ministries have not been added.
8. Leased line installation and monthly communication charges have been based on the current Sprint fee structure in Kazakhstan - $2000 per installation
and $550 per month line charges. Figures are for 60 lines.
Treasury Modemization Projecl



Schedule E
Page 3 of 11
Information Technology Training Plan
Misc Totnl   Nbr    Cost per   Travel &   Tolal
Training Course                           Pc   PA   SS   HIS  DIS  QA  DBA OTA User Students Courses Couise    Per diem   Cost
Introduction to Accounting                    1    6    5    1    2    I    1    5   30         52        2      5,000     8,333    26,667
Introduction to) Govcrnmcnl Financial Mgmt    I    6    5    I    2    I    I    5   30         52        2      5,000X    8,333    26,667
Systems Analysis and Design                   1    6    5    I    2    i    I    5              22        1      5,000     8,333    13,333
Intoduction to CASE tools                     1    6    5    1    2    1    1    5              22        1      5,000     8,333    13,333
Inuoduction to Unix                           I    6    5    I    2    1    1    5              22        1      1,500     6,000      7,SNI
Unix Shel Pogrunming                               6    5                5    I                  17       I       600      5,4(0)     6,"
Unix System and Network Administration                  5                                         5       1      1,500     6,000      7,SN
Unix System Tools                                       5                                         5       1       600      5,400      6,9H
C Pogmmning                                        6    5                     1                  12       I      1,500     6,000      7,SN
RDBMS Design                                  I    6    5    I    2    1    1    5              22        I      1,000     5,667      6,667
bIoduction to SQL                             1    6    5    1    2    1    I                    17       I       350      5,233      5,S8
Data Management fre Client/Sers               I    6    5    I    2    1    1                    17       I      2,000     6,333      8,333
KDBMS Performance & Tuning                              5                     I                   6       1      1,75)    6,167      7,917
RDBMS Administaon.                                      5                     1                   6       I      1,750     6,167      7,917
Itoduction to 4GL Package                          6                          1                  7        I      1,500     6,000      7,5N
GUI Design  d Applicadon DIebpme                   6                          1                  7        I       375      5,250      S,62S
Inoddiomt o PC Netwoking                      I               1    2                5   75      84        4      2,000     6,333    33,333
Networ tMaaagemn and Pbnning                  I         S    1    2                 5   60      14        3      2,000     6,333    25,"
Iairoductiot TCP/IP                           1         5                               60       66       3      2,000     6,333    2S,
Iniroihcoa to Finacial System                 I    6    S    I    2    I    1                    17       1      3,000     7,000    16,
Fimncidal Sysen M .difications                I    6          I                                   8       I      5,000     8,333    13,33
Finacial Sysem Change Managemcnl              1    6    5    I                                   13       I      3,0(X)    71,000    10,
Fiancial Systm Abninistiation                 I    6    5    I                                   13       I      3,0(X)    7,00X0    10,
nirdm ctioMSWndows                            I    6    5    1    2           1    5    75      97        4      1,000     5,667    26,66
Inwlodct lo MS ofra cI    6    5    I    2  _                                 1    5   75       97        4      1,000     5,667    26,6
TEl l 1-- --                                                 -  ,-    - - -  -                     -  - 1    ,^l^3U
PC - Penise Co _riao
PA - Propumner Amat
SS - Sym  Specia list  Systems Mainteace
HIS - Head uf lafmion Sydow Deplnent
DIS - Deputy of Infmmauion Systms Deprment
QA - Quality Ance Adnimiratr
DBA - Databm  AdminiStrator
OTA - Olice Technokbgy Administrator
Misc Uset - Usuu/Adtninistratos rm Line Ministines, Departments, and Oblasts
T_umy Modernit  PWue



Schedule E
Hardware Cost Details                                          Page 4 of 11
Extended
TreS    W Units                                             Units   IUOM         LUnit price Price
Application/database Server             I Each         50,000    50,000
Development sever                       I Each         40,000    40,000
Training workstations                  10 Each          2,000    20,00
Eawnet Network Interface Cards         10 Each            100      1.000
High speed  sr printer                  2 Each         10,000    20,000
Roules                                 II Each          3,000    33.0W
Repeater/Hub                            I Each           450        450
Tramsciver for 1OBase-FL               13 Each            250      3,250
lOBase-FL Backbone                  2000 Meter             2      4.000
UPS                                     I Each          I.(XX      I.000
Total                                                            172,706
IBM or compatible workstalion           4 Each          2,000      8,000
Eternet Network Interface Cards        4 Each             100       40
Laser Printer                           I Each          1,000      1,000
Transceiver for lOBase-FL               I Each            250       250
Repeater/Hub                            I Each            175       175
Cabling - 1OBasc-T                     50 Meter             I        50
Total                                                              9,875
8udp   xscaU*)  yDetalwl                                                 .
IBM or comnpatible workstation         13 Each          2,000    26,000
Ethernet Network Interface Cards       13 Each            100      1.300
Laser Printer                           1 Each          1,0(X)     1,000
Transceiver for lOBase-FL               2 Each            250       500
Repeater/Hub                            2 Each            250       500
Cabling - 1OBase-T                    100 Meter             I       100
Total                                                             29,400
Treaswy Modemization Project



ociLeauj-e E
Page 5 of 11
tlardware Cost Details
Financial Statistics and Analysis Department
IBM or iompa.lihic wSorks;lafioII        4 Each           2.0)10(0   8,(00)
E-tlhernet Nclwork lntcrface (Caids      4 Each             I Nt       401)
Laser Priiter                             I Each           1,1t)(     1.000
Transceiver for lOBase-FL                 I Each            250        250
Repeater/Hub                              I Each            175        175
Cabling - lOBase-T                      50 Meter               I        50
Total                                                                9,875
Cash Management and State Debt Department
IBM or compatible workstation           15 Each           2,000     30,000
Ethemet Network Interface Cards         15 Each             100       1,500
Laser Printer                             1 Each           I,O(X)     1,000
Transceiver for lOBase-FI.               2 Each             250        500
Repeater/Huh                             2 Each             250        500
Cabling - 1OBase-T                     100 Meter               I       100
Total                                                               33,600
Budget System Methodology Department
IBM or compatible workstation            7 Each           2,()0      14,000
Ethernet Network Interface Cards         7 Each             100        700
Laser Printer                             I Each           1.0((      1,000
Transceiver for 1OBase-FL                 I Each            250        250
Repeater/Hub                              I Each            175        175
Cabling - 1OBase-T                      50 Meter               1        50
Total                                                               16,175
Regional Treasuries Departmnt
IBM or compatible workstation            5 Each           2,000     10,000
Ethemet Network Interface Cards          5 Each             100        500
Laser Printer                            I Each           I,O(X)      1,000
Transceiver Ior 1OBasc-FL                 I Each            250        250
Repeater/Hub                             I Each             175        175
Cabling - lOBase-T                      50 Meter               1        50
Total                                                               11,975
Trcasury Modemization Project



Schedule E
Hardware Cost Details                                             Page 6 of II
Department of Information System
IBM or coinpalibie works;tation          22 Each           2,00))    44,000
Ethernet Network Interface Cards         22 Each             1()      2,2()0
Laser Printer                             I Each            1,000      1,000
Transceiver for 1OBase-FL                 3 Each             25(        750
Repeater/Hub                              3 Each             250        750
Cabling - lOBase-T                      100 Meter               I        100
Total                                                                48,800
Office Administration and Support Department
IBM or compatible workstation             5 Each           2,000      10,000
Ethernet Network interfaice Cards         5 Each             I(t)1      500
Laser Printer                             I Each              lO0()(   1,000
Transceiver for lOBase-FL                 I Each             250        250
Repeater/Hub                              I Each             175        175
Cabling - lOBase-T                       50 Meter               1        50
Total                                                                  11975
Treasury Modemization Project



Schedule E
Hardware Cost Details                                          Page 7 of 11
le OUast (Mmay)
Server                                  I Each         50,000    50,000
IBM or compatible workstation         100 Each          2,000   200,000
Ethernet Network Interface Card       101 Each            100    10,100
High speed laser printer                I Each         10,000    10,000
Laser Printer                          4 Each           1,000      4,000
Routers                                 I Each          3,000      3,000
Repeater/Hub                           13 Each            450      5,850
Transceiver for 1OBase-5               14 Each            150      2,100
Modem                                   I Each          1,000      1,000
1OBase-5 Backbone                    100 Meter              2       200
Cabling 1OBase-T                      500 Meter             1       500
UPS                                     I Each          1,000      1,000
Total                                                            287,750
q df7wqna; sObIa,
Server                                  I Each         40,000    40,000
IBM or compatible workstation          20 Each          2,000    40,000
Ethernet Network Interface Card       21 Each             100      2,100
Lascr Printer                           4 Each         10W       4,000
Routers                                 I Each          3,(XX)     3,000
Rcpcatcr/Hub                            3 Each            450)    1,350
Transceiver for 1OBase-5                4 Each            150       600
Modem                                   I Each          1,000      1,000
1OBase-5 Backbone                     50 Meter              2       100
Cabling 1OBase-T                     200 Meter              1       200
UPS                                     1 Each          1.000      1,000
Total per Oblast                                                  93,350
Number of Oblasts                      19
rTotal for Medlm/Small Oblast-                                 1,773,650
Treasury Modernization Project



Schedule E
Hardware Cost Details                                         Page 8 of 11
Regosnd 7TreWry UniAt
IBM or Coimlpatihlc workkslaion         2 Each          2,(XN)    4,00
Ethemel Network Interface Card          2 Each           11()       20(0
Laser Printer                           I Each          1,0I0)     1.000
Transceiver for 1OBase-T                4 Each             75       300
Modem                                   I Each          1.000      1,000
Cabling lOBase-T                       30 Meter             1        30
Total per Rayon                                                    ,530
Total Number of Rayons                253
Total for al Rayons                                            1,652,00
Server                                  I Each         20,000    20,000
IBM or compatible workstation           8 Each          2,000    16.000
Ethernet Network Interface Card         9 Each            100       900
Laser Printer                           I Each          1.000      1,000
Repeater/Hub                            2 Each            250       500
Transceiver for 1OBase-5                2 Each            15(       300
1OBase-5 Backbone                     100 Meter             2       200
Cabling lOBase-T                      20() Meter            1       200
UPS                                     I Each          I,000      1.000
Total per Ministry                                                40,1r0
Number of Ministy                     40
Total for all Ministries                                      1 1,604,000
Total Hardware Costs                                                                      1 5,661,865
Treasury Modernization Project



Schedule E
Software Cost Details                                         Page 9 of 11
Capacity Total Nbr Total Nbr Per user/
Treasury Units                                      Total Nbr Nbr       Update  Inquiry  license    Extended
Copies   Users    Users    Users    cost          Cost
SenerS,ss!us Software
OS - SCO Unix or equivalent
CentWal Treasury Primary Network         1       100                          1850      1,850
Devdopment Plafonn                       1        16                           650       650
Large Obbst                              I       100                          1850      1,85
Medium/Small Oblast                     19       40                            650    12,350
Line Ministries                         40       40                            650    26,000
NOS - NetWare 4.1 or equivalent
Ceatial Tmasuqy Primary Network          I       100                          1100      1,100
Developmeat Platform                              16                          1100      1,100
Large Oblst                              I       100                          1100      1,100
Medium/Small ObLbsl                     19       40                           1100    20,9(U)
Line Ministries                         40       40                           1100    44,000
hmdmsforW     _kroin
Cenal T     rmuy Priny Network           I       100                            45      4,500
Devd _M  Platfonn                        1        16                            45       720
Larg Obist                               I       100                            45      4,500
Medium/Small Oblast                     19       40                             45    34,200
Line Ministies                           8       40                             45    14,400
Rayons (winows)           -            506         1                            45    22,770
T    ,auy Moadnization Proicct



Schedule E
Software Cost Details                                       Page 10 of 11
NetworkApplikatons:
Level I Financial Management Package
Central Treasury Primary Network                           20        20 3000/1500     90,000
Large Oblast                                               50        50 3000/1500    225,000
Medium/Small Oblast                                       250      250 3000/1500  1,125,000
Line Ministries                                            40        80 3000/1500    240,0()1
Level 2 Accounting Package
Development Platform                    1                  16        16     2,000     2,000
Rayons                                253                 506               2,000   506,000
0
Software Modifications                                      I                               1,000,000  1,000,000
Client Applications
Microsoft Oflfce Suite
Central Treasury Primary Network        1        64                           375    24,000
Development Platform                    I         0                           375         0
Large Oblast                            1        20                           375      7,50(1
Medium/Small Oblast                    19         5                           375      1,875
Line Ministries                        40         2                           375       750
Lotus Notes/cc:Mail
Central Treasury Primary Network        I       100                           140    14,000
Development Platform                    I         0                           140         0
Large Oblast                            1       100                           140    14,000
Medium/Small Oblast                    19        40                           140      5,600
Line Ministries                        40        40                           140      5,600
Treasury Modemization Project



Schedule E
Software Cost Details                                         Page 11 of 11
D    eftkw oa P*essional Developwent TooL
RDBMS
Development Platfonn                               16                        25,000    25,00()
GUV/4GL, C++ Development Tools
Development Platform                              16                         40,000    40,000
Business Modeling/Repository Tools
Developanent Platform                             16                          3,000      3,001)
Networl/Change/Conriguratio Management Tools
Central Treasury Pnrmary Network                    I                         19,00     19,(01
Development Platform
Large Oblast                                        1                         19,000    19,000
Medium/Small Oblast                                19                        19,000   361,000
Line Ministries                                   40                          19,000   760,000
Products include:
Network Monitoring Management - $7,500
Central Application Manager - $2,500
Flle backup manager - $3,000
Virus protection - $3,000
lHdp Desk - $3,000
|Toda Sofdwh    cII I                                                                                    4    3I5N
Treasury Modemization Project






Schedule F
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approximate Dates     Activities             Staff Composition      Staff Weeks
7/96                  Project Launch         Task Manager,          10
Workshop              Procurement,
Disbursement, and
Component Specialist
11/96                 Review of the          Task Manager and       8
preparation phase     Component Specialist
3/97                  Review of the pilot    Task Manager and       8
system                Component Specialist
9/97                  Mid-term review        Task Manager and       8
Component Specialist
3/98                  Review of first        Task Manager and       8
replication site      Component Specialist
6/99                  Interim review of full   Task Manager and     8
replication system    Component Specialist
12/99                 Review of full         Task Manager and       8
replication system    Component Specialist
6/2000                Final supervision of    Task Manager,        10
the project           Procurement,
Disbursement and
Component Specialist
Total                                                               68






Schedule G
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Component:                    Project Preparation
Objectives:                   a) Prepare detailed functional design for the treasury system and
devdop related procedural manuals
b) Eamine available software alternatives
c) Devdop hardware and software specifications for the technology
platforn needed to establish the system and assist in their procurement
d) formulate a training program
Input Indicators            |Pocess Indicators              Outputindicators              Impact Indicators
i) Consultancy services       i)  Engagement of consultant   i)  System design and software  i) General ledger and chart of
financed by PPF to assist the  (done)                        specification for payroll,   accounts have already been
Govermnent to prepare the                                    commitment accounting,        adopted for the FY96 budget
project.                                                     revenue accounting, cash      and are already in use;
management, fixed asset    ii) Software modification to an
control, debt management,    interim system to allow
general ledger and chart of  translation of existing
accounts have been           accounting system to
completed and approved by    correlate numbers into new
the Government (prior to     budget classification is being
appraisal);                  completed and implemented
ii) Hardware and software
have been defined and
costed (prior to appraisal);
iii) Course content and target
audience of a training
program specified.



Schedule G
Page 2 of 3
C omnet:                       Pilot System Computerization
Objectives:                    a) Test the new system at selected institutions at the central, oblast and rayon levels
Input Indicators               Process Indicators            J Output Indicators         T Impact Indicators
i) Procurement of hardware,    i)  International shopping to   i)   Delivery, installation    i)   Decision on the hardware,
software application             procure the hardware and       and testing of               software, application software
systems for the pilot            standard software;             computers system at          configuration for the full
program.                    ii)  Search for off-the-shelf       selected pilot               implementation of the treasury
software application (s/w).    organizations at             system;
central, oblast and     ii)  Improved expenditure
rayon levels;               management information and
ii)  Testing of application      improved controls of
software for treasury       expenditures at those sites
system and                  where the system is being
modification for full       tested.
implementation;
iii) Training of staff at
pilot sites in the use of
the system.



Schedule G
Page 3 of 3
rapo  F Follmetation of System Computeriznio
Objective:                   a) Nationwide implementation of the new computerized treasury system
Input Incdators              Process Indicators            Oput Indicators                Impact Indcators
i)  Procurment of hardware,  i) International competitive  i) Delivery, installation and  i) Improved expenditure
software and application    bidding to procure the       testing of computers at all    management information
systems for full            standard software.            organizational central, oblast  and improved controls of
implementation.                                           and rayon levels;             expenditures throughout the
ii) Commencement of training     government;
for all staff using the new  ii) Improved cash management
system.                       of the government as a
whole;
ii) Ability to produce
consolidated fiscal account
data consistent with
international standards.



A



Schedule H
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Summary of Major Procurement Packages
(millions of U.S. Dollars)
Est. Cost   Procurement   Start Doc                   Award       Contract
Package           US$ m        Method      Preparation    Invitation   Contract    Completion
Standard H/W & S/W
for Pilot                  1.8         ICB           2/96         7/96         9/96         12/97
Application S/W for
Pilot                      0.5         ICB           2/96         7/96         9/96         12/97
Standard H/W and S/W
for Replication            6.0         ICB          12/97         2/98         7/98         12/99
Application SIW for
Replication (additional    2.0         ICB           2/96         7/96         7/98         12/99
licenses)
Implementation             0.9        Ongoing         -            -             -          6/98
Consultants                           Contract
Treasury Advisor           0.4      Short-list of             - As Needed -                 11/99
individuals
Training, National and     0.9       Short-list of            - Continuous -                11/99
Local Seminars                         Firms
Technical Studies          0.4       Short-list of            - As needed -                 11/99
related to the Treasury                Firms
NOTE: The major consultancy has already been awarded and the consultants are in place.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23700R1
5o                                                                                                                            80                                           90
SEVERC-
KAZAFKHSTANSKAYA
T. Chelumi            T u?u         ^sr                                                                      R  U  S  S  I A  N
R  U  S  S I  A  N        (               X      '       t       '      ;        ToOms;      p rOCtsz      rsOe~~~~~~0k  N.-,,b,k  F  E  D  E  R  A  T  I  O N
RU S SI AN                                                                           RPTOPAVLOVSK    T,               T                  oE                        R         IO
F E D E R A T I O  N
rO rOsTmro Ufoo ,o,o                                         KOKCHETAX KOKCHETAV
ro < AKTYUglns0                                                    t                                                                                                                                           * . 9 , 0 V u  
PAVLODAR                           TKRE
/\         ,                   .'r  KAArRH EN DZHEZKAZGAN }                     DZHEZKAZGAN        ,                             A                 4     RSK
C0oP/yeo                                                                                       SENGRD                                T   ALATINSVOKURG
~~~~URLS                    .OUbr    d%.-                                                                      ,                         ***                                AZKHSTANSKAYA
EeynS ! _ X , r T ts a~~~KARAGANDA 
ATYRAO                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TURGAYSKAYA  * KRGNAKAADAEPAIPALATINSK
~~o0~~~  -  AIY       ATP RAAAy
o1    -         ANGISTAUSKAYA  I                                                               X ?                                   C     h     h     S -t/ 5AYBN
AZERBAIJAN                             \,m(                         )             +s                   >              CCHIMKENT4                     K Y R G Y Z             /      r.o svro,.ZK   DZHEZAZGA          oo_
08k   <                     $+f >.                                /                        ~KAZAKHSTAN
/~~~~~ -  z,       ROADS
r._ w _ ~        ~     ~     -i                                       '7 \\TAJ|K|STAN                      v                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
.t-                               ALMATY %   TALDY-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OLSTCAITL
50~                              ISLAMIC REPUBLIC                                                      )                     *J                                                           0     SELECTED CITIES
"'AKTAO                                                                                HIMKFTIRDZHAI            U L-
KCLoMnEERF O IRAN                                                                                                                                                     - ZY  - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o     1 0 C  2 0 0   3 0 0   0 0 0   5 0 0   60 00<                                             +-   ~   .% * * *  .  \     V       I              X   *9-                               ' O L S B U D  R E
O 100   2D0L   Ij                                                                      AFGHANISTAN            o
200  300  400  00   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
ALMATY~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLBO19









IMAGING
Heport No:-    6840 KZ
Type: _
TAd



