                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25711

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (CPL-40770; PPFB-P2550)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15.8 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                                 FOR A

                              TREASURY MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                              June 10, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Tenge
                                       155.00 = US$ 1
                                        US$ 1 = 155.00

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States
COFOG   Classification of the Functions of Government
CoA     Chart of Accounts
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EBF     Extra Budgetary Fund
FSU     Former Soviet Union
GFS     Government Finance Statistics
H/W     Hardware
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IBTA    Institution Building Technical Assistance Loan
IT      Information Technology
IMF     International Monetary Fund
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NBK     National Bank of Kazakhstan
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QAE     Quality at Entry
S/W     Software
SU      Spending Unit
TSA     Treasury Single Account
TLS     Treasury Ledger System
TGL     Treasury General Ledger
TTL     Task Team Leader
UN      United Nations

                              Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
                           Country Director:     Denis de Tray
                             Sector Manager:     Helga Muller
                          Task Team Leader:      Ali Hashim

                                       KAZAKHSTAN
                               Treasury Modernization Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P037960                                                      Project Name: Treasury Modernization
Team Leader: Ali Hashim                                                  TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 10, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Treasury Modernization                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-40770; PPFB-P2550
   Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                                         Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (75%); Sub-national government
                            administration (25%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Standards and financial reporting (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/23/1994                                        Effective: 08/01/1996              08/01/1996
   Appraisal:    04/05/1996                                            MTR: 03/01/1998                06/01/2001
    Approval:    07/30/1996                                         Closing: 08/01/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Republic of Kazakhstan/Ministry of Finance - Treasury Department
                      Other Partners:      International Monetary Fund

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Dennis de Tray                                      Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Helga Muller                                        Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Team Leader at ICR:        Ali Hashim                                          Motoo Konishi
ICR Primary Author(s): Ali Hashim


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall objective of the project was to support the Government in setting up the Treasury organization
by designing and implementing a treasury system: (i) that provides comprehensive reliable and timely
financial management information; and (ii) helps manage government expenditure effectively. To achieve
this aim, the project set three specific objectives: (i) prepare a detailed functional design for the treasury
system and develop related operational procedures; (ii) provide and install computer resources to implement
the treasury system; and (iii) ensure that local staff can operate and maintain the system effectively.

Context:

The objectives of the Treasury Modernization Project need to be assessed in the context of the fiscal reform
agenda being pursued by the Government of Kazakhstan at the time of project inception. At independence
from the former Soviet Union in 1991, Kazakhstan, like other CIS countries, had inherited a weak
budgetary system and ineffective budget execution processes. The national budget was not prepared in a
transparent format. Large lump-sums were allocated to the "State Apparatus" without any breakdown by
ministries or administrative units. The system of functional budget classification, was not in conformity
with standard international classification systems such as the UN Classification of the Functions of
Government (COFOG) and the IMF classification of Government Finance Statistics (GFS).

A large share of government resources were channeled through extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) outside the
national budget. Spending units were allowed to generate their own revenues, using their assets and staff
resources, to supplement their budgets, without any intervention by the Ministry of Finance (MOF).

The Central Bank, the National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK), was responsible for cash execution of the
budget through its network of branches. For this purpose it established three or more bank accounts for
each Spending Unit (SU). These accounts were administered by a system of "credit limits" specified by the
MOF, based on cost estimates submitted by the SUs. The tax and customs authorities had separate
accounts at NBK. In total, there were about 7000 bank accounts for the SUs, tax and customs authorities
at NBK branches. The MOF had no information on balances in these accounts nor any control over them.
There was no clear distinction between economic and functional classifications of expenditures. Line
ministries could not plan their expenditures in advance, because of the lack of transparency in the budget
allocation process and the arbitrariness of budget allocations.

Monthly budget execution reports were prepared by the MOF from reports received from the National
Bank of Kazakhstan. Reports on expenditures classified by institutions and economic composition, were
not available until quarterly reports were received from the budget organizations through their controlling
ministries. These were received and collated with substantial lags. The MOF had no means of ascertaining
actual government expenditure vis-à-vis the budget allocations in a timely manner and could not effectively
monitor compliance with strategic priorities or initiate in-year remedial measures.

Government Fiscal Reform Program

In early 1994, the Government of Kazakhstan initiated an ambitious fiscal reform program, to support the
move towards a market economy. The Government established a Central Treasury Department by
Presidential Decree on January 27, 1994, within the MOF, and made it responsible for cash and debt
management, budget execution, and government accounting and reporting.

In early 1995, MOF began the preparation of comprehensive legislation to support the establishment of the
Treasury and its functions, to define budget preparation and budget execution procedures, the powers of the
local governments and their taxation and borrowing limits, and to regulate auditing of periodical and


                                                        - 2 -

year-end accounts. The main piece of legislation was the Budget Systems Law (1996), which was
supported by secondary regulations.

The program of the Treasury Department included establishing regional (oblast level) and district (rayon
level) treasury units which would take over budget execution and primary accounting responsibilities from
the National Bank of Kazakhstan, and introduce the required reforms to centralize fiscal monitoring and
control functions in the MOF. The regional offices were made responsible for ex-ante control of all
payment orders raised by SUs against their sub-warrants, for calculating the division of designated tax
revenues between the central government and the local governments, and for advising the NBK regional
branches of the allocation of revenues.

With IMF assistance, the Government developed a comprehensive strategy to introduce a fully functioning
Treasury.

The various elements of this strategy are summarized below:

    (a) Revision (1995) of budget classifications to include functions, institutions, programs and
    subprograms, with subprograms, broken down by economic classification and conforming with the
    IMF's GFS to facilitate a strategic overview of the allocation of budget resources between sectors of
    the economy, and for inter-country and time-series comparisons. The new budget classification
    structure also allowed the Treasury to identify the resources allocated to each line ministry and to
    ensure proper accountability.

    (b) New procedures for budget execution. Replacement of the existing system with a system of treasury
    warrants that would set the limit for expenditure for the line ministries by program and line items,
    using the new budget classification code. The line ministries would in turn distribute the warrant
    allocation to SUs by the same classification code by issue of sub warrants. This reform intended to
    achieve optimum use of the cash resources and prevent accumulation of idle cash balances.

    (c) Creation of a Treasury Single Account (TSA), closing down the bank accounts of the SUs and the
    tax and customs authorities and opening a consolidated Treasury Single Account at the NBK for SU
    budgetary transactions. Tax and customs accounts were also opened at the NBK regional branch, with
    procedures for daily transfer of the balances to the TSA.

    (d) Creation of a Treasury Ledger System (TLS) and a new chart of accounts - This ledger system,
    which is also called a Treasury General Ledger (TGL), and is kept by the Central Treasury, included
    ledgers for financial accounting as well as for monitoring of budget implementation. The TGL was
    based on a new chart of accounts (COA), adopted for use in 1997. The new COA reflected the new
    budget classification of revenues and expenditures. The TGL also had provisions for recording data on
    original budgets, revisions as approved by the Budget department, warrants issued by the Treasury and
    sub warrants by line ministries at regional level.

    (e) Design and implementation of a modern, automated and integrated Treasury System for
    government financial management to support the re-engineered Treasury processes and procedures.

This reform strategy was implemented in a planned and phased manner over the period 1994-1999.

Assessment of Project Objectives:




                                                     - 3 -

In view of the above, the objectives of this project reflected essential priorities for fiscal management in
Kazakhstan as identified by the Government, the IMF and the Bank at that time. They were consistent with
Government strategy for setting up institutions, systems and procedures necessary to establish a fully
functioning Treasury function within Government. The objectives were however, very ambitious, since the
implementation of the Treasury function, ab-initio, involved introducing change on a massive scale,
government wide. However, these changes were essential for the desired transition to a market economy. A
QAG review of a cohort of four technical assistance projects in ECA in 1998, made an assessment of the
objectives of this project and stated: "The project is highly relevant to Kazakhstan's transition to a market
based economy."

3.2 Revised Objective:

The originally stated objective was not formally revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project comprised the following three phases.

    (a) Design of an automated Treasury system to support Treasury operations. This component
    consisted of (i) preparing a detailed functional design for the treasury system and developing related
    operating procedures and manuals; (ii) examining available software alternatives; (iii) developing
    hardware and software specifications for the technology platform needed to establish the system and
    assist in their procurement; and (iv) formulating a training program for the Treasury staff to operate
    and maintain the system;

    Systems design activities under this phase also included funding for technical assistance in the policy,
    legal and institutional reform areas. One of IMF Treasury advisor's was funded from the project
    during part of his deputation to Kazakhstan, and the main advisor, during subsequent peripatetic visits.
    A part of the design work was financed under a US 1.0 million PPF.

    (b) Pilot systems computerization. Based on the work carried out under component (a), designing,
    procuring, parameterizing and testing application software to implement the full functionality of the
    Treasury system at a set of designated pilot sites. Procuring computer hardware and software to pilot
    the system at these sites. Preparing related technical and end user documentation and training technical
    and end user staff to operate the system.

    (c) Full implementation of the computerized system. Based on the finalized system under component
    (b), procuring and installing computer hardware and software for the remaining sites within the
    Treasury organization and training staff, treasury wide for operating and maintaining the system.

Project activities were consistent with international experience and the requirements of setting up a
Treasury system in the country. The phasing of project activities was in line with the required phasing of
similar projects, which involve the implementation of large scale information systems, country-wide. The
project provided financing for essential technical assistance required for the detailed design of the systems,
for the computer hardware, software and training required for their implementation.

The aforementioned QAG review of this project stated with regard to the design of this project: " The
design concept was appropriate: a single implementation agency, a pilot and adequate support for capacity



                                                      - 4 -

building."

3.4 Revised Components:

The project components were not revised. However in view of the delay and consequent expenditure
overruns encountered in the implementation of the first two phases, the Government decided to finance part
of the activities under phase (c), related to replication of the system, country wide, from its own resources.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

A formal Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment was not carried out before the start of the project. However,
project objectives were consistent with Government priorities and the Bank's strategy and were proven
feasible during implementation. Project design was based on international experience and had been used,
under IMF advice, elsewhere in the CIS countries. Counter parts were committed to the operation and were
involved in all phases of project preparation. However, the project was launched in a challenging
environment as the political consensus on reforms within the country was evolving. It was an ambitious
project and involved extensive changes to the existing system of fiscal management and control. The project
design catered adequately to technical aspects but under estimated considerations of the political economy.
This led to delays during project implementation. However, on balance QAE is assessed as satisfactory.
This assessment is also supported by an independent QAE assessment made in the QAG review mentioned
above which also rated it satisfactory. The QAG report stated: "The Borrower was committed to the
operation and the design was based on the IMF's design which was being successfully introduced elsewhere
in the Former Soviet Union (FSU). The approach was also appropriate, with a pilot phase to test the
functionality of the systems before being adopted nationwide. There was ownership within the MOF. The
Finance Minister acknowledged that both he and the Bank underestimated the level of political uncertainty
and disruption which would affect the project during the early phases. He and the Director of the Treasury
also said that they and the Bank did not fully appreciate the resistance to change they would encounter. In
other words, a better analysis of the political economy and institutional stake-holders might have mitigated
the very slow start up of the project. However, on balance the design, commitment level and institutional
capacity were appropriate."

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project has successfully assisted the Government in setting up a Treasury function. Reform measures
included the design and implementation of the underlying legal framework, the setting up of the
organizational arrangements for Treasury based payment and receipts processing and design of the
associated systems and procedures. These measures have provided the Treasury the capacity to collect and
provide the MoF comprehensive reliable and timely information required for the management of
government expenditure and has significantly improved the capacity of the Government for fiscal
management. Most of the overall objectives of the project have been successfully accomplished and the
achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory.

The necessary legal framework that authorizes the Treasury to control budget execution is in place. The
Treasury has been set up as a separate organization under the Ministry of Finance. A network of Treasury
offices has been set up with offices in the capital city Astana, each of the 14 oblasts (regions) and about
190 rayons (districts). A new budget classification structure and associated chart of accounts, conforming
to with the IMF GFS system has been designed and implemented. A Treasury Single Account has been set



                                                       - 5 -

up at the National Bank of Kazakhstan and all spending unit bank accounts operating prior to the start up
of the treasury have been closed. Budget appropriations approved by Parliament are recorded in the
Treasury system, as are planned expenditures for each spending unit, by month and type of expenditure.
During the course of the year the MOF issues monthly warrants to spending ministries which define the
limits of expenditure for that month. Spending units route their payment requests to a designated treasury
office for approval. The Treasury system, operated by all Treasury offices, checks for the availability of
budget appropriations and warrants prior to approving expenditures. After approval the Treasury forwards
the payment request to the designated branch of the Central Bank that holds the TSA and the bank pays the
government creditor. This payment could be in the form of a check or a direct deposit to the creditors' bank
account in a private bank. A commitment system has been instituted for contracts exceeding a specified
threshold. A full set of fiscal reports are produced by the system to assist the Government in the
management of its financial resources. Revenue receipts for tax and non- tax revenues are deposited by
taxpayers in designated Banks and are then transferred to the appropriate Treasury revenue accounts in the
Central Bank. In this way Treasury has control over all government financial resources.

The specific outputs of each of the project components/ phases are described below.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The major outputs for each of the project components or phases are described below.

(a) Design of the Computerized Treasury System. This component is rated satisfactory. The design
phase was completed successfully and the outputs from this phase were satisfactory. The overall functional
design was carried out under advice from the IMF. The detailed functional and technical design was carried
out by an international firm selected on a competitive basis. This phase resulted in:

    (i) A full statement of functional requirements for the Treasury system. This task involved a detailed
    study and analysis of existing functional processes, as well as the reforms to be implemented or under
    implementation. The functional design included a description of information flows, procedures,
    transaction types, associated documents and forms, the organizational arrangements required to operate
    the new systems and the reports to be generated. It also developed detailed documentation for the
    overall systems and its operation, the detailed functional requirements and systems specifications for
    the application software required to support them, in addition to their interfaces with external systems.

    (ii) Design of technology architecture. This task involved surveying the locations of the Treasury
    offices, servicing bank branches and budgetary institutions that were expected to transmit or receive
    data and determining the location of the computer systems, the associated transaction volumes (current
    and future) and data requirements, and the size and configuration of the hardware and software to be
    installed at the nodes, as well as the mode of intercommunication, specifications for the hardware and
    systems software required at the various sites for each phase of the project.

    (iii) Preparation of tender documents for system procurement in accordance with the World Bank
    guidelines for procurement of computer systems.

    (iv) Design of a training program describing the training courses required for the operation of the
    system and highlighting the numbers and types of staff to be trained in each area.

The Loan partly funded the stay of one of the resident IMF Treasury advisors and peripatetic visits of a
second advisor. These inputs provided necessary policy guidance on the legal and institutional aspects of



                                                      - 6 -

treasury and quality assurance on the work of the external consultants. This included advice on the design
of the budget classification structure and chart of accounts, budget execution processes and procedures and
the formulation of treasury regulations and operating manuals. All these tasks have been completed.

It needs to be mentioned here that during implementation the Government required that two sets of design
changes be incorporated in the system. These are described below.

    (i) Centralization of all payments processing in the central Treasury in Astana. The original design
    proposed by the IMF and the project consultants was based on a distributed architecture which was
    compatible with the telecommunication facilities available in Kazakhstan. Under this design, the
    regional (oblast level) Treasury offices would be the centers for transaction processing and rayon
    offices would connect with these offices through telecommunication lines. The oblast offices would
    keep their own databases, process payments and receipts related to their rayons and periodically update
    the general ledger at the center. However, the Government wanted a move to a centralized architecture.
    Under this architecture, all transactions would be processed by the servers located at the Central
    Treasury, with regions and districts accessing them online, from workstations via the
    telecommunication network. The separate oblast level databases would be abolished and all
    transaction processing was centralized at the Central Treasury accessing a single, centralized database.
    The stated reason for this move was that this arrangement would provide a more up to date picture of
    the available cash resources and facilitate more effective cash management. However, this was a major
    architectural change. It called for changes to the hardware configuration at the Central Treasury, and at
    the oblasts /rayons. More importantly, it imposed the responsibility on the Treasury to replace the
    existing weak and unreliable communication facilities with a nationwide telecommunication network
    consisting of fast, reliable and secure communication channels between districts, regions and the
    central Treasury.

    The Bank team and the IMF advisor cautioned the Treasury on this move and pointed out that efficient
    functioning of a fully centralized system would be crucially dependent on the establishment of a good
    telecommunications network between the rayons and the center and efficient technical support
    arrangements for the central systems to ensure that system maintenance/tuning is carried out on a
    regular basis to ensure acceptable response times for transactions generated at remote locations.

    The Government felt that it needed more timely information on available cash resources and better
    control on the use and deployment of these resources during budget execution. It therefore insisted on a
    shift to a centralized architecture for all payments processing and agreed to ensure that the
    requirements highlighted by the Bank and the IMF would be met as the project progressed. With this in
    view the Government embarked on the implementation of a country wide satellite based
    telecommunication network at a cost of US$ 2-3 million that would enable the rayon treasury offices to
    communicate directly with the Central Treasury. The Government met the additional cost from its own
    resources. It also assured the Bank that adequate arrangements would be made for the maintenance and
    operation of the centralized system.

    (ii) Integration of local government bank accounts into the TSA. The original scope of the project was
    limited to processing transactions related to the Republican Budget. The Government decided to
    increase the scope of the implementation of the Treasury function to local governments and to
    amalgamate the Bank accounts for the local Governments into the TSA at the NBK. Under the new
    policy, the balances of each government administration would be tracked through the accounts created
    in the Treasury General Ledger. This change would provide more effective control over all (including
    local) government resources. However, successful implementation would require that either local


                                                      - 7 -

    governments would willingly come under the control of the central treasury system and agree to a
    consolidation of their resources with the TSA at the center, or that this would be made mandatory
    under the budget legislation governing local government budget execution. The Government of the time
    felt that it had the necessary legal authority to make this move.

These changes have resulted in some problems in systems implementation as is described in the following
sections.

(b) Pilot systems implementation. This component is rated satisfactory. This phase was completed
successfully resulting in the procurement of application software through an ICB process, its
parameterization and testing, so that it conforms to the functional design, and its implementation at a set of
designated sites.

The Treasury selected the Oracle Financials application software package as a result of an ICB process.
The software is based on a modular design. The different modules are integrated and exchange data
seamlessly. There is a single secure point of entry for commonly used data. A modular approach has also
made it easier to differentiate between those functions that needed to run at regional centers and line
ministries from the ones that were required at the Central Treasury. The main functional modules in the
system are:

    ·    Central General Ledger (Central Treasury)
    ·    Commitment Accounting and Procurement
    ·    Payments accounting
    ·    Revenue accounting
    ·    Assets Management
    ·    Cash Management and Bank Reconciliation

In addition, the system has facilities for uploading the approved budget and subsequent revisions, and for
storage of historical ten-year fiscal data to assist budget compilation.

The new system was installed at designated pilot sites which include the Central Treasury, the Astana City
Treasury office, and the Akmola Oblast Treasury and 18 associated rayons, with effect from August 2001.
The Astana City Treasury office pilot services all major line ministries' headquarters, Astana city
administration and 2 local rayon governments. The second pilot site services all national government SUs
in that region and oblast and 18 rayon governments.

Evaluations by missions from the IMF and the Bank in November 2001 indicated that all the modules were
functioning as designed, that the local staff were well trained and knowledgeable and that the interaction
between the regional office and the Central Treasury in running the application software was smooth, fast
and essentially problem free. The Central Treasury was successfully interacting with electronic inter-bank
payment and clearing system for making direct payments to suppliers' accounts from the TSA and for
receiving data on collections of tax and other receipts going directly into the TSA.

In this phase also, the Government decided to institute changes in scope of the pilot which resulted in delays
and an increase in cost. The original objective and scope of the pilot were to test the technical and
functional viability of the new system and associated application software and hardware at the Central
Treasury office, two representative oblast offices and two rayons. In 1997 the Government of Kazakhstan
decided to move the capital of the country from Almaty to Astana, about 600 kilometers to the north. The
move caused a reconfiguration of the pilot sites in order that they could continue to include the Central


                                                       - 8 -

Treasury office which was now located in Astana. Parallel to this configuration and midway during the
procurement of the system, the Treasury also decided to change the scope of the pilot. The Government felt
that it was also necessary to demonstrate, during the pilot phase, the successful implementation of the
treasury system for all sites within the designated pilot oblast offices, rather than in only a few
representative sites, as was the case with the original pilot design. Accordingly, the Government increased
the scope of the pilot to now include the Central Treasury, the Astana City Treasury, the Akmola Oblast
and all of the 22 associated rayons. This increase in scope meant that the pilot would encompass about half
of the total budget related transactions and in effect meant that the pilot phase was replaced by a first phase
introduction of the production system covering half the budget. The increase in scope was not strictly
necessary to test the technical and functional viability of the new system. However, the Bank agreed to this
revision, since a successful introduction of the new system for the enhanced pilot region would be more
effective in demonstrating the advantages of the new system and therefore add to its credibility. However,
the Bank and the IMF advised the Government that taking on a more ambitious pilot, to start with, would
increase implementation risks and would result in an increase in cost and time for implementation. The
Government considered these risks worth taking to ensure credibility for the new system.

Furthermore, since the Government was continuing to pursue the implementation of the Treasury reforms,
and major elements, such as Treasury based processing of payments and receipts, had already been set up,
it became necessary to set up interim arrangements to support the functioning of the Treasury until the new
system became available. Accordingly an interim computer system was first set up in 1998, partly financed
from the World Bank's Institution Building Technical Assistance Loan (IBTA) and partly from the
Governments own resources to meet the gap until the full function system became operational.

(c) Replication of the Treasury System Country Wide. Based on the results of the pilot stage testing
and the progress in the establishment of the new satellite based telecommunication network, the Treasury
started replicating the new system in the remaining oblasts in June 2002. At the end of December 2002, this
system had been successfully implemented at the Central Treasury and 5-6 (out of 14) oblasts. The interim
Treasury system, also developed under the project, continues to be used at the remaining oblasts. As stated
earlier, the project had originally envisaged only the coverage of the Republican budget. In design changes
instituted during implementation, the Government increased its scope to also cover Local Government
budgets. As the time of project closing system implementation at the 5-6 Oblasts covers a major portion
(over 85%) of the Republican budget and about 30% of the Local Government Budgets. The Government
has decided to allocate its own budgetary resources to complete the roll-out process. Some technical
problems are being encountered in the replication of the system as is discussed more fully below. However,
since most of the Republican Budget is now routed through the Treasury and the technical problems are
amenable to resolution as is discussed below, this component is rated satisfactory.

Training has been recognized as a key factor in ensuring the sustainability of treasury reforms and the
operation of the system. The Central Treasury Department has established a training facility at its office in
Astana, where several types of training and support are provided. The initial contract with the
hardware/software vendor included provisions for some technical training courses in UNIX (the operating
system), database management and the application software. This contract also provided for the
development of end user reference manuals in Russian to assist in the training process. The Treasury has
followed this up by organizing extensive seminars for training of its staff, as well as senior financial staff
of the user ministries and local governments. This training focused on the functional aspects of the new
treasury system, using the Treasury training facility and the detailed functional requirement documents. A
detailed training program for the senior staff of the MOF and the user ministries in using the new
application software has been introduced from November 2001 by the project team and is being replicated
country-wide, in step with the system replication process.


                                                      - 9 -

As is mentioned above and also pointed out in the borrower's comments to the ICR, the Treasury is
encountering some technical problems in the early phases of the roll-out process. The two main reasons for
these problems are:
    (a) A new and complex information system normally requires some initial adjustments and above
    average maintenance in its early implementation stages. For this it is necessary that either in-house
    capacity be available to support the system, or the client has technical support arrangements with an
    outside contractor. In the present case the Treasury put the system in production use and took over
    operation of the system without putting in place reliable technical support arrangements, despite
    repeated assertions by both the Bank and the IMF as to the importance of this being done before the
    contractors left the project site. Formal and reliable maintenance and support arrangements for the
    support and tuning of the system were only put in place in January-February 2003. As a result a
    number of operational problems in the early operational phase were not attended to and the data base
    structures got fragmented without adequate maintenance and system performance suffered;

    (b) the full set of telecommunication facilities, including a satellite receiving station in Astana, which
    was supposed to be set up by July 2002, and which are a prerequisite for a centralized system to work
    efficiently, have not been set up as yet, again despite repeated reminders from the Bank and the IMF
    advisor. This has also contributed to a degradation of system performance when operating in an on-line
    mode from remote sites.

The Bank team and the IMF advisor assisted the Government in its negotiations with the vendor to correct
these problems and some of the major issues were resolved by December 2002 as part of the systems
warranty. The Government has subsequently entered into a support and maintenance contract with a local
firm which has in turn contracted with Oracle corporation to provide continuing support for the next three
years. The remaining performance and other technical problems are being addressed under this contract.
Required additions to the telecommunications facilities are also planned.

At the time of the closing of this project, a new Minister of Finance and a new management team has taken
over in the Ministry of Finance. The new management feels that the technical problems being faced with the
system require that the system design revert to a decentralized architecture. This point of view has been
highlighted in the borrowers comments.

The issues that have been highlighted in the borrowers contribution to the ICR can be grouped into four
areas:

    (i) Technical problems with system operation: It is stated in the borrowers contribution that a number
    of technical problems have been encountered in the initial operation of the system, for example, slow
    and unstable operations, system breakdowns, errors in reports, and in some modules. As is also stated
    in the borrowers contribution, many issues in this category have been addressed by the vendor.
    Technical support and maintenance arrangements that have now been put in place by the Government
    should be able to correct remaining problems. In any case these problems are not architecture specific
    and should not be used as a means to justify a move to a distributed architecture.

    (i) Vulnerability of a centralized system to failure: It has been stated that a centralized system is more
    vulnerable to failure. The prerequisites for the implementation of a centralized architecture and the
    steps that the Government had promised to take in this regard have been discussed in section 4.2. If
    the prerequisites for the operation of a centralized system, which include, good telecommunication
    facilities, appropriately sized servers at the central site and back up facilities and adequate maintenance


                                                      - 10 -

     arrangements, are put in place, as had been repeatedly stressed by the Bank and the IMF advisor, then
     this criticism is not correct. In fact applications like Oracle Financials are designed to operate and are
     mostly implemented in centralized environments. Most of the items listed above that are required for
     the operation of a centralized system are now in place. The issues related to telecommunications are
     discussed below.

     (iii) Requirements for good telecommunication facilities, high telecommunications bandwidth, and high
     recurring costs associated with telecommunications. The Bank and the IMF had at the very outset
     pointed out the requirement of an efficient telecommunications facilities for the operation of a
     centralized system. The Government has in fact implemented major elements of a satellite based
     telecommunications network for this purpose. The remaining elements such as the receiving station in
     Astana, need to be put in place as soon as possible. The requirements for bandwidth can be further
     optimized by implementing efficient database query and reporting methods which have now been
     proposed and are being implemented. The Bank team had been assured by the Government and
     Kaz-Telecom, and this has been documented in mission aide memoires, that the communication
     channels provided to the Treasury have appropriate information security arrangements. The IMF
     advisor, after examining the contractual arrangements between the Treasury and the Kaz-Telecom, the
     telecommunications service provider, has documented in his Aide -Memoir left with the Finance
     Minister after his mission in February 2003, that the telecommunication costs are currently $1.0
     million per year and not the $5-6 million per year as is being stated, and these are not considered
     excessive.

     (iv) The degree of control that the Treasury should exercise on local government budgets. The new
     management in the Ministry of Finance feels that a decentralized oblasts/rayon based regime would be
     more appropriate for the administration of local Government resources. The Bank team feels that the
     relationship between the local and national governments are essentially considerations of the prevailing
     political economy and need to be resolved in the light of the political consensus on these issues as
     reflected in the appropriate budget laws.

The Bank and the IMF advisor have proposed possible courses of actions and highlighted their
implications. They have suggested that having decided for a centralized system, the Treasury should not
use the essentially technical issues listed at items (i)- (iii) above to interrupt the roll-out process midway
and justify a move to a distributed architecture since these issues are amenable to resolution and are in the
process of being resolved. It has been suggested that the Government needs to complete the missing
elements of the satellite based telecommunications network, namely installation of the planned receiving
station in Astana and/or upgrade the ground based telecommunications link between the satellite receiving
station in Almaty and Astana. Furthermore, the Treasury needs to develop better estimates of recurrent
operational costs associated with telecommunications before using it as a driver for this change.

However, if the real driver for change is the issue of control over local government budgets, then this is a
policy decision that needs to be resolved in the light of the prevailing political economy. If Government now
feels that the political environment requires a move to decentralizing the control over local budget execution
and the budget laws allow this then this should be done in a planned manner and only for the local
government resources. It would still be necessary to retain central control over Republican budget
resources.

It has been pointed out that the transition to de-centralized operations is complex and could take 12-18
months or more and considerable additional investment (US$10.0 million or more). It should also be noted
that having opted for a centralized system earlier, the Government has already made major investments in


                                                       - 11 -

the Rayon to Center links by installing a satellite based telecommunications network connecting the rayons
to the Center. However, if the Government now wants to move to an oblast based system for local
government budget execution, the state of the telecommunication links between the Rayons and the Oblasts
will need to be assessed and these may also require significant upgrades.

Current status: As is stated in the Borrowers comments to the ICR, the Treasury is currently engaged in
correcting the technical problems that are being encountered. The new maintenance and support contractor
hired by the Treasury has started work on site and is in the process of making the required corrections to
the system and many of these problems have been corrected. It has been decided by Government that if the
required improvements to the system would be implemented satisfactorily the roll-out process would be
resumed for the Republican budget and the Treasury would continue to monitor the stability of the system.
As of June 1, 2003, we understand that the system has been replicated to two more oblasts. However,
some technical problems still persist. We further understand that the Government has started a pilot project
in parallel to implement a de-centralized version of the system to cater to the local Government budget. The
Republican budget will, we understand, continue to be processed centrally.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of this project has been substantial. The necessary legal and
institutional framework required for the operation of a Treasury has been set up. The Government of
Kazakhstan has been able to put in place a fully functioning Treasury organization with offices at the
center, in each of the 14 oblasts and in some 190 rayons. All government financial flows relating to
expenditures and receipts have been restructured and are routed through the Treasury. Spending unit bank
accounts have been closed and a Treasury single account set up with the NBK. Associated systems and
procedures implemented under the project, enable better control on the use of Government financial
resources and ensure that they are spent on items for which they had originally been approved. The system
enables better cash management and Government has a good idea of the total cash resources available to it
at a given point in time thereby enabling it to better formulate its borrowing strategy. Efficiencies in budget
execution achieved by the system, enable Government to meets its financial obligations within the
stipulated contractual time limits. A large number of staff have been trained in the use of the system.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

A major factor that affected project implementation related to the fact that this project was initiated at a
time when Kazakhstan was in the initial stages of the transition from a socialist system to a market
economy. Public finance management structures and institutions inherited from the socialist days were not
adapted to a market economy and called for far reaching institutional and policy reforms. Even though a
decision had been taken to move to a market based economy, the specific steps involved in the actual
transition were not clear to all Government officials. Exposure of top MOF officials to courses organized
by the IMF institute in Vienna, and visits of these officials to other advanced countries to see the



                                                     - 12 -

functioning of a modern Treasury were helpful in improving their understanding of Treasury Reforms.
However, it took time for all related officials to become fully conversant with the new systems and
procedures involved in the transition.

The 1998 QAG report noted that complexity of World Bank procurement procedures for IT products
contributed to delays in procurement. While a major part of the delays were caused by the change in the
scope and specifications of the procurement, as described in section 4 above, the two stage ICB process
required for application software procurement is very time consuming and complicated to understand and
use for implementation agencies who are first time Bank borrowers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

As mentioned in section 4, several changes initiated by the Government and implementation agency, have
affected the timing and cost of implementation of the accompanying information systems required to
support the Treasury reforms that were to be to be implemented under this project. The main changes were:
(i) a change in the scope of the pilot; (ii) adoption of a centralized architecture for payment processing, and
(iii) integration of local government bank accounts into the TSA.

The increase in the number of pilot sites and changes in the architectural and functional design, mentioned
above, constituted significant amendments to the original specifications for the Treasury system. These led
to an increase in the estimated cost and timing for implementation. The resulting negotiations with the
Bank, in order to ensure compliance with procurement guidelines, and with the vendor selected for
Treasury system implementation, to come to an agreement on the revised costs, led to delays of over a year
in the finalization of the contract. The project closing date was accordingly required to be extended two
times over the course of project implementation; the first time to compensate for delays in the finalization
of the contract with the H/W software vendor and the second time to account for delays in implementation
arising on account for changes in the design of the system architecture.

In 1997 the Government of Kazakhstan decided to move the capital of the country from Almaty to Astana,
about 600 kilometers to the north. This decision had an adverse effect on project staffing. Key consultant
staff were reluctant to move to Astana, which had limited facilities and an extreme climate. Some of these
consultants left the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

It is felt that the factors that have contributed to the difficulty of the implementation process and an
increase in cost and time for implementation are closely interlinked and were under the joint control of the
Government and the implementing agency. These have been discussed above.

5.4 Costs and financing:

As a result of the factors mentioned above, project implementation fell behind the original schedule by
about two years and the cost of systems implementation increased by about $4.0 million. Out of this, the
cost of implementation of the new satellite based communication network, which became a critical
requirement for the implementation of the centralized architecture, was about $2.0 million and was met
from the Government's own resources. The remaining increase was due to changes in the technical and
functional design, which resulted in increases in costs in the application software configuration process,
changes in the deployment and size of servers and other hardware. In addition, delays in project
implementation required that the stay of project consultants be extended. Together, these factors



                                                       - 13 -

contributed to an increase in cost of about $2.0 million, which was met from the Loan.

The original investment cost of the project was estimated at $16.0 million. Out of this the Bank was
supposed to finance 15.8 million, including a PPF of $1.0 million which financed preparatory design
consultancies during the preparatory phase. The Government was to pick up minor civil works related to
site preparation and estimated at $0.2 million.

An amount of $14.67 million has been disbursed from the Loan. In addition, the Government has
contributed $2.0 million towards setting up the telecommunications network. It is estimated that an
additional amount of $3.0 million would be required for systems replication. Thus the total project
investment cost would be about $19.67 million or about $4.0 million more than the original estimate.

In FY 2002 on account of the build up of surpluses resulting from increased oil revenues, the Government
introduced a new policy, placing additional restrictions on the use of Loan proceeds for technical assistance
projects. It has accordingly decided to finance all additional costs required for replicating the system to the
remaining sites, entirely from its own resources, even though an amount of $ 1.13 million was available
under the Loan. The remaining un-disbursed amount of the Loan has been cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The Legal and Institutional framework for budget execution developed over the course of the project has
been codified in the relevant budget laws and is considered to be sustainable. All Government financial
flows have been re-engineered and Government resources placed in a Treasury single account at the Central
Bank. This is also considered to be sustainable. The institutions and systems set up as part of this project
are being used by the Government as part of its apparatus for public finance management. Should the
Government decide to move to a decentralized system because of changing views on the scope of control of
the State Treasury over the Local Government budgets, it would still retain control over Republican budget
resources, as was the original intention. The Legal and institutional framework for Treasury operations set
up under the project would continue. In a migration to a de-centralized information systems architecture,
the existing hardware and application software installed at the center would continue to be used, however
the Treasury would require installation of additional hardware at the oblast level to support decentralized
transaction processing for local Government budgets. Since Treasury offices already exist at the oblast and
the rayon levels and are responsible for processing payment requests received from spending units in their
respective areas, a move to a decentralized model would not require changes to the institutional structure
already in place. In the event of de-centralization, these offices would process their transactions at a local
server rather than at the central server in Astana. Local Government funds would be decentralized and held
in accounts at the oblast branches of the National Bank of Kazakhstan. The staff trained in the use of the
system would continue to operate the system. Thus all these elements are considered sustainable.

The Government has the financial resources to maintain the Treasury system. The dearth of skilled
manpower within Government would however, continue to be a constraint and require the Government to
out source technical support and maintenance for the system to outside vendors. The Government has
entered into a contract with a private firm for technical support and maintenance of the system. This is
increasingly the model adopted by many Governments in view of their inability to provide market based
salaries to technical specialists required for systems maintenance tasks.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:




                                                      - 14 -

The institutions and systems set up as part of this project are now routinely used by the Government as part
of its apparatus for public finance management. The transition to regular operations has already
successfully taken place.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal phases was satisfactory. The
project financed the setting up of a Treasury system which was a crucial element of the Government's own
fiscal reform program. During these phases the Bank worked closely with the IMF and provided advice on
the design and implementation of the system based on its work on similar systems in other CIS countries.
Government officials very quickly internalized the concepts associated with setting up a Treasury function
and fully supported the design. The 1998 QAG review rated the QAE to be satisfactory, on balance, but
stated that both the Bank and the Borrower had underestimated political and institutional constraints. The
project received about 58.5 staff weeks for project preparation up to supervision.

7.2 Supervision:

Although, mixed in the early days of project implementation, over the course of the entire project, the
Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project received about 113.3 staff weeks for
supervision.

The 1998 QAG review, had rated the quality of supervision for the project as marginally satisfactory. At
that stage, the project had essentially reached an impasse, with the Government and the contractor unable
to agree on a revised price for the contract with the change in scope mentioned above. The project
consultants had also expressed reservations of continuing with the original team during the implementation
process. Project implementation had been delayed by at least one and a half years due to substantial
changes in scope and content of the original procurement package, the protracted procurement process and
institutional resistance. The frequent turnover of TTLs and passive and reactive nature of Bank supervision
missions had also contributed to the problems.

Soon after the 1998 review the task managers of both the Bank and the Borrowers teams were changed.
The Bank team increased the intensity of project supervision and adopted a more pro-active stance to
project implementation.

With some urging from the Bank, the Treasury, put a very competent Treasury professional in charge and
assembled a team of dedicated staff who were allocated full time to work with the vendor on project
implementation. The focus of project implementation moved from being one of an IT project to a Treasury
reform project.

These changes, coupled with persistent Borrower commitment to project implementation, enabled the
Treasury to finalize contract negotiations with the vendor and to complete implementation of the greatly
expanded pilot. The Bank team was able to work out a procedure that would be acceptable to the Bank to
enable the change in scope and cost of the H/W, S/W contract. After Bank approval of the contract, the
Bank team was also more actively engaged in the implementation process. In particular, it advised the
contractor to develop a prototype system using Oracle Financials, the selected software package, which
would enable the Treasury to getter a better idea of what the system had to offer, instead of merely


                                                     - 15 -

producing extensive documentation, that the Treasury was unable to assess. Both the IMF advisor and the
Bank TTL were actively involved in assessing the quality and the suitability of the prototype and in
advising the Treasury on any corrective actions required. As a result, project implementation accelerated
and the pilot process was completed successfully. The completion of the pilot caused the new Treasury
system to gain great credibility both within and outside Government. The successful implementation of the
Oracle Financials application package for the Treasury was recognized as a first in many quarters. The
IMF arranged a major international conference in Astana in April 2002 highlighting the Kazakhstan
Treasury project as a major success story which could serve as a model for other FSU countries.

Implementation picked up considerably during the last years of the project and it was able to achieve most
of its objectives. On balance, the Banks performance during supervision can therefore be rated as
satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of project outcomes and the quality of intensive supervision carried out during the later years of the
project, overall Bank performance can be assessed as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The overall project design was based on IMF recommendations for Treasury systems for CIS countries.
However, as implementation commenced, the Borrower quickly assumed the leadership in formulating and
executing project activities. In particular, the Borrower very quickly internalized the basic concepts
associated with the Treasury function and, in fact, showed a strong desire to extend the scope of the
function to areas beyond those that were originally envisaged in the project, e.g., the extension of the
system to include local governments. The Borrower also insisted on implementing the more advanced
centralized transaction processing model compared to the distributed processing originally suggested by the
Bank and the IMF, due to the state of communications in Kazakhstan. Bank (and IMF) advice was
advisedly conservative in the earlier stages and was consistent with on-ground technical and human
resource capacities and constraints. However, the Bank was not rigid in its approach and agreed to a more
advanced design and more aggressive implementation strategy as the Borrower assured the Bank that it
would be able to take on the challenges that such an approach entailed. The Bank remained involved in
implementation by highlighting the underlying requirements for pursuing this more aggressive strategy and
keeping a close watch on progress implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Ministry of Finance was responsible for overall project coordination, however, execution of the
project was the responsibility of the Treasury Department.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

They were very responsive to the implementation needs of the project and generally excellent cooperation
was established with the task team and maintained through out the project. A unit within the Treasury was
responsible for maintaining project accounts and the financial management aspects of the project. Midway
through the project the staff in this unit was changed due to previous staff departures from Government.
This caused some transitional problems which were, however, overcome as new staff became familiar with
Bank procedures.



                                                      - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Most of the targets proposed for the project have been met. Overall performance of the Borrower can be
assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Kazakhstan Treasury Project holds valuable lessons for other similar projects. Government
commitment to reform over the entire project duration, which has extended to seven years, has been a
critical success factor for this project. Successive Finance Ministers and Treasury managers have
recognized the importance of treasury reforms and have continued to press for progress on key policy
reforms. Initially there was resistance from some power ministries, such as Ministry of Defense, who were
reluctant to give up their separate bank accounts. However, unwavering support from the Government and
Parliament made it possible for the MOF to take a strong stand and achieve the transition. The
Government's ability to staff the project team with an extremely competent project manager and with a
dedicated team of Treasury staff was critical during the testing and implementation phases of the new
system.

The Government formulated clear reform objectives and consistent implementation strategies. Functional
and procedural changes were the major drivers of the reform. The technological changes, though the most
capital intensive, were viewed as being in support of the functional reforms.

A decision early in the project to go for an interim computer system to handle core aspects of Treasury
functionality was critical in enabling the introduction of change involved in a gradual and a more
manageable manner. It enabled staff within the Treasury to become familiar with a simpler computer-based
system before the full function, more complex system is introduced. Moreover, since this system enabled
the introduction of the key functional processes for the Treasury, it made it possible to hold the end user's
attention over the extended period required for full systems implementation.

Close project monitoring and advice rendered by the Bank and IMF, particularly during the last four years
of the project implementation, has also been important. The consistency and continuity in the advice was
possible by continued association of the same IMF Treasury advisor through out the project. This enabled
good functional and technical advice to be available to the Borrower during the critical implementation
phases. The requirements for the inclusion of appropriately qualified technical staff in the project team for
projects involving the implementation of a major country wide information systems network needs to be
recognized in the Bank.

Lack of capacity within the MOF to handle the implementation of complex information systems and change
management on such a wide scale, have been the main impediments to the project being completed more
speedily. The time needed to introduce change at the very basis of budget execution, on such a vast scale,
country wide, needs to be recognized in planning similar projects.

Low government pay scales continue to be a crucial impediment to attracting and retaining qualified
technical staff, on both the functional and the IT sides, required for project implementation. On the
technical side the Government has entered into a support contract with the vendor to provide the necessary
services. However, the retention of permanent staff, who have been suitably trained in the use of the
system, at the low salary scales offered will continue to be a constraining factor. Increasing salaries and a
parallel move at improving the service conditions of employees within the MOF would be required to
retain staff and ensure the longer term sustainability of the system.



                                                     - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
     We would like to express our gratitude for the implementation of the Treasury Modernization Project.

         Transition of the entire budgeting process to a new quality level reflects the big job that was done
   for the project implementation. The ICR reflected the basic stages of the work fulfilled. We agree with
   most of the comments. This is related, first of all, with the introduction of the new budgeting principles,
   introduction of new functions that could allow achieving many objectives set by the project. As the ICR
   has noted the cost management can only be effective in the conditions of the integral and systematic
   approach. It should be based on the functional development of the Treasury system and on the relevant
   information provision. Both the processes are closely interrelated. We consider successful all the work
   related to the development of principles, procedures and legal acts for the improvement of the treasury
   processes.

         Computerization of the Treasury is a critical moment for the implementation of the set strategic
   goals. The use of Oracle Application Finance is the first example of the standard corporate management
   software of the ERP category for the management of the public finance. During implementation through
   partial customization and parameterization most functions were implemented.

         However a number of problems emerged during implementation, in particular, at the stage of
   roll-out. These problems can be conventionally split into two groups. The first group includes the issues
   related to the problems of the software, in its standard part and the block of customized applications.
   After the completion of the project the agreed basic list of outstanding errors was put together. At the
   moment out of 184 issues 27 are still unresolved and some new errors were added to it.

         The second group of problems is more serious and systematic. It is related to the demerits and
   errors of the design of the technical architecture of the project. During the maintenance of the system in
   5 oblasts of Kazakhstan, especially in the extra load regime, some defects have been identified.

            The original scheme proposed by the World Bank consultants provided multi-tier shared
   architecture, however a one-tier scheme was implemented by Government. A possible reason for this is
   the economization of the implementation and roll-out process.

            The one-tier scheme of the Project implemented through HP and Oracle was not well thought
   about. Under such an architecture of the system there is a strong probability of global systematic
   failures.Under the conditions of Kazakhstan centralization of all data and calculations on one server is a
   difficult task to implement. The real condition of the communication channels is such that whatever
   powerful is the central computer, the system will always have stockpiled the queues for processing,
   chain-wise increasing the waiting time. There is a real concern that the internal capacity of the existing
   channels will just not be sufficient to connect all treasury branches. The rent of the additional satellite
   channel is comparable to the cost of the entire project. Use of the system in its current configuration
   undergoes great delays, failures and great traffic. There are problems of safety of information and
   payments in the central system and communication channels.

            This causes serious problems of safety and stability of the financial system of the state. In this
   respect any further system roll-out without corresponding solution of all errors may cause failure of the
   entire system of the budget payments. To achieve the best result the Ministry of Finance has taken all



                                                      - 18 -

measures to improve the situation. The agreement was concluded to support the system. The agreement
was signed with Hewlett-Packard Corporation to prolong the warrantees and train specialists. At the
beginning of April the specialists of Oracle are planning to install the modernized version of Oracle
Applications. We hope to eliminate some critical errors of the first group. We then plan a staged system
roll-out in other oblasts with constant monitoring of the stable performance of the system. Options for
preparing, training and practicing are proposed to support the system. On the basis of the current use we
again express our concern that the linear roll-out under the one-tier scheme can result in a major
escalation of problems and risks.

Regards,

N. Rakhmetov
Vice-Minister
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Appendix

List of issues

Slow and Unstable Operations. Issues of current use. The implementation of the system is
accompanied by a great traffic in channels, system instability and high additional consumption of paper.
The operations of the system are extremely slow. It takes oblast treasuries 30 to 45 minutes to type the
documents, and from 6 hours to several days to distribute them.
The schedule of work in the system was developed, the oblasts started two-shift regime of operation.
However, in big rayons, such as Ekibastuz and Aksu, night-shift operation doesn't help. They have to
take documents to Pavlodar and proceed with the operations from the oblast center.

At the moment the real work of the system in its current configuration faces big delays in processing of
payments and reporting. They are mostly related with the low current productivity and queuing in the
system.
Loading of computerized tables (financial integrator) in rayon divisions takes hours. The Specialists of
Oracle recommended to switch it off and use another e-mail scheme, but this excludes the control of
input data.

System Breakdowns. On October 16 and December 13, 2002, the entire system was not operating for
several hours under different technical reasons. In the first case there was a failure of the disc massive of
the HP server. This is still the potentially most vulnerable part of the hardware as having two physically
different servers there is single, common for the two servers, external memory. On December 13 in the
presence of Oracle and HP specialists, the system failed and the entire standard regime of treasury
operations was destroyed. The reason was not finalized. A possible reason is overfilled intermediate
worksheets. This situation shows instability of the treasury system and its dependence upon various
system errors. The nature of the errors is still not clear, there is no mechanism of the effective reaction
to such errors. The errors need to be "caught" and fixed together with Oracle specialists, as their
emergence can't be predicted.

Reports. A number of reports are formed with errors. The process of completion and printing of the
output forms is not optimized and takes a lot of time thus leading to long system holds. High quality
paper and laser printer cartridges are wasted In some oblasts consumption of paper grew from 7 to 10
times and is from 70 to 200 kg a day.




                                                          - 19 -

Errors in modules. Problems rose in the implementation of:

l some functional modules; serious errors in the main module ­ "Payments to creditors" ­ are of a
    particular concern.
l "Random" processes are happening in the system resulting in blocking of saving process and
    spontaneous system hold.
l Misbalancing of cabling, to be manually regulated, periodic blocking and holds of the system.
l Almost all system modules suffer from serious mistakes. There is no payment transfer control as a
    means of budget control.
l The Oracle Financial Analyzer ­ software subsystem for computerized management planning and
    forecasting processes doesn't work. Due to this "Cash Flow Management" module works partially.
l "Assets" module was deactivated as it created network overload.


Protection of Information and Safety. Due to these reasons any further system roll-out without
elimination of all errors threatens with the failure of the entire budget payment system. The Project
doesn't provide for a reserve system, communication channels are open and not protected. It is almost
impractical to use the channel protection of the information. There are serious problems with the safety
of information and payments in the central system and in the communication channels. The danger of
unauthorized access and transfer of budget payments is rather high, especially taken into account the
existing errors at the most crucial operations.

Communication Channels. In Kazakhstan, use of satellite communication channels to ensure
full-blood operation on-line can result in excessively high system maintenance cost in future. In the
existing configuration the problem of communication channels capacity is constantly critical. For
example, the load in communication channels in 5 oblasts for the new system is from 2.5 to 4 GB and in
all other oblasts with the old system 203 MB, so the difference is from 10 to 20 times. The consumption
of expensive paper for laser printers increased 7 times. Printing by the local treasury units is arranged in
an absolutely costly way, in the direct on-line regime along the satellite channels.

Breakdown by Budget Levels. Total concentration of information on a single server is not effective
and costly from the point of view of separate processing of information for the republican and local
budgets.
Based on the principles of budget process arrangement it is correct to keep and process the information
at the place of its input and authorization. The price of message delivery, from rayon treasuries, in
particular, cost of storage per information unit in the local budgets become very high. And the urgency
of the detailed information for Centralized decision taking is lost.

Support Issues. The critical issue of system stability is the weak current support. The support issues
are entrusted with Kazakh company Real Soft, the winner of the tender for the system support.
However, some time is needed to train the required group of specialists. This is only dealing with the
current support. Any change and development of the system adding new functions or formats will
require new requests to Oracle to do the work, with corresponding costs.

Measures. This situation couldn't but raise concern with the Ministry of Finance. The Government was
advised of the difficult current situation with the Project. On 24 and 28 February an extended meeting
took place to discuss the Treasury Modernization Project chaired by the First Vice Prime-Minister Mr.
A.S. Pavlov.
To achieve best results the Ministry of Finance took all possible measures to improve the situation. In



                                                   - 20 -

fall 2002 strict measures against the employers were taken. The Ministry of Finance invited the
technical managers, managers and specialists from HP and Oracle. All main claims and proposals of the
Kazakh side to eliminate problems were stated. HP and Oracle management was advised of our concern
about the current situation. This had some positive effect. From November a group of specialists was
working on a permanent basis and eliminated a number of problems related to the optimization of
reports and printing. Operation and filing systems were optimized; cluster protection mechanism was put
in place. An agreement was concluded for the system support. An agreement was signed to prolong
warrantees and train specialists with Hewlett-Packard.
In March 2003, the new software was tested and at the beginning of April it is planned to install this
modernized version of Oracle Applications together with Oracle specialists.




                                                - 21 -

(b) Cofinanciers:




                     - 22 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


Comments from IMF-FAD

Thank you for sending us a copy of the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for World Bank
Project No. PO37960, Kazakhstan Treasury modernization.

We would like to provide the following comment to be included in the partner comments section of the ICR:

The IMF and the World Bank have collaborated very closely in the high-level design and implementation of
the Kazakhstan Treasury project. In our assessment, the main elements of this project have been
implemented very successfully. There have been very significant improvements in the government's
capacity for effective and rational fiscal management, through new institutional arrangements, reform and
streamlining of procedures and practices, and enhancement of skills and capacities throughout the
government.

Although there remain some challenges to ensuring transparent fiscal management in Kazakhstan, including
appropriate disclosure arrangements for petroleum revenues, these are related to political choices and not to
lack of capacity. An additional issue to be addressed includes a fresh look at the fiscal relations between
different levels of government, which could have implications for treasury operations at the sub-national
levels. Many of these issues could build on the successes of the budget and treasury reforms to date. We
believe that the authorities' strong commitment to and ownership of the reforms have been major factors
behind this success. The close and productive cooperation between the Bank and the Fund has also played
an important role at different stages in this project.

We are aware that some technical difficulties remain in extending the new treasury information system to
all parts of the country. The IMF does not have specific expertise in assessing these types of detailed
technical issues relating to hardware or software design. These issues should be adressed directly between
the authorities and the suppliers who were contracted to provide these services. We understand that
discussions are indeed underway between the authorities and the suppliers in order to resolve these issues.
We trust that the parties will find appropriate technical solutions.

In any case, these technical problems should not detract from the very positive overall impacts of the
project on the capacity for modern fiscal management in Kazakhstan.


Sincerely yours,

Ehtisham Ahmad
Division Chief
Public Expenditure Management Division II
FAD

10. Additional Information

N/A.




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Introduction of new budget classification The new budget classification system based same
system based on IMF-GFS methodology           on the IMF-GFS system was introduced in
(Sept.96)                                     1996.
1.2 Enlarging the scope of the budget to      The scope of the budget now covers             same
cover investment projects financed from       investment projects financed from external
external loans (1997 budget)                  loans w.e.f. 1997
1.3 Introduction of revised chart of accounts The revised chart of accounts in conformity    same
in conformity with new budget classification  with the new budget classification and
and to cover non-budgetary transactions       covering non- budgetary transactions was
(Oct. 96)                                     introduced in 1996.
1.4 Centralization of Republican budget       Republic and budget payments and receipts same
payments and receipts in a single treasury    centralized in the TSA, December 1996.
account (Dec. 96)
1.5 A pilot government accounting system      An interim system was implemented with the same
capable of providing comprehensive, reliable required functionality in 1998. The pilot of the
and timely management information on          full function system, covering the Central
government receipts, payments (June 98)       treasury, Two Oblast level Treasury offices,
                                              Astana City, and Akmola, and 22 associated
                                              rayons was completed in December 2001.
1.6 A networked national government           An interim system with the required            same
accounting system capable of providing        functionality and covering all oblasts and
comprehensive fiscal data for major entities  rayons was implemented in 1998. The pilot
at the Republican level and for local         of the full function system, covering the
governments (Dec. 99)                         Central treasury, Two Oblast level Treasury
                                              offices, Astana City, and Akmola, and 22
                                              associated rayons was completed in
                                              December 2001. The pilot of the new system
                                              covers both Republican and Local budgets.
                                              The system is being replicated to other
                                              Oblasts and at the time of this report has
                                              been introduced in four additional oblasts. It
                                              is expected that the replication process will
                                              be completed by December 2003.
1.7 Monthly reports on budget execution       The required reports are being produced        same
covering receipts analyzed by source and      from a combination of the two systems that
expenditures in terms of obligations and      are currently in use.
payments analyzed by ministry, function and
economic category (Dec. 99)
2.1 State budget (Republican and local)       State and Local Government Budgets are         same
prepared according to the new budget          being prepared according to the new budget
classification system (Sept 96)               classification system from 1997.
2.2 New law on budget system to support the The new law was passed in September 1996. same
operations of MOF and Treasury, passed
(Dec. 96)
2.3 Release of resources by economic          Release of resources via a system of           same
category via a system of warrants and         warrants and sub-warrants is being done
sub-warrants: for Republican ministries and   w.e.f. 1997.
spending units (June 96); and for local
governments (August 97)
2.4 Monitoring of government expenditure by The system of monitoring has been                same
economic category by Treasury units at the    introduced w.e.f. December 1997.
regional and district levels (Dec 97)
2.5 Budget execution reports by function,     Required reports are being produced from a     same
ministry, program and economic category:      combination of the two systems.
Republican budget (Jan. 97); local budgets
(Aug. 97)
2.6 Revised (modern) government financial     Required financial regulations have been       same
regulations (Dec. 97)                         implemented -1998
2.7 Adequate number of staff in Treasury,     A large number of staff have been trained in   same
ministries and elsewhere trained in modern    the use of the new Treasury based payment
financial management and accounting           and receipts processing. These staff are




                                                                   - 24 -

procedures (Dec 98)                          using the interim system,. A team of Treasury
                                             staff have been trained in the use of the new
                                             system and are using this system at the pilot
                                             sites. As the replication process proceeds
                                             staff at the new sites are being trained in
                                             pace with the replication process.
2.8 Commitment accounting and introduced     A system of major contract has been          same
for major entities covered by the Republican introduced w.e.f. January 1998.
budget (Dec. 99)


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Revised budget classification structure and  Completed and introduced w.e.f. FY 1997.     same
chart of accounts conforming with GFS
classification methodologies, completed.
Full functional design of systems processes  Design of new systems completed and          same
and procedures for Treasury based budget     implemented.
execution, completed.
Detailed regulations and operating manuals   Regulations and manuals completed and in     same
completed and in use.                        use.
Technical design of treasury system          Technical design completed and               same
completed and implemented.                   implemented.
Adequate numbers of staff trained in the use Adequate numbers of staff trained in the use same
of treasury system.                          of new system.
H/W, S/W, delivered, installed, tested.      H/W, S/W delivered, installed and            same
Application S/W tested for the following     functioning at pilot sites. Replication
minimum functionality; maintaining and       underway at other sites. Expected
processing cash allocations, commitment,     completion, December 2003. Systems
payment and receipt transactions and         provide required functionality.
producing core financial reports required by
the MOF/ Treasury.

1End of project




                                                                 - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Investment Costs
Civil Works                                                  0.20             0.00               0
Equipment (H/W and Application S/W.                         12.20           13.68           112.13
Technical Assistance & Training                              2.60             2.97          114.23
Refinancing PPF                                              1.00             1.00             100

Total Baseline Cost                                         16.00           17.65
                        Total Project Costs                 16.00           17.65
                  Total Financing Required                  16.00           17.65


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.20          0.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          10.20             0.00         2.00          0.00         12.20
                                 (10.20)           (0.00)      (2.00)          (0.00)       (12.20)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         2.60          0.00          2.60
Technical Assistance and          (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.60)          (0.00)       (2.60)
Training
4. Refinancing of PPF             0.00              0.00         1.00          0.00          1.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          10.20             0.00         5.60          0.20         16.00
                                 (10.20)           (0.00)      (5.60)          (0.00)       (15.80)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          11.68            0.00         0.00           2.00        13.68
                                 (10.56)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (10.56)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         2.97           0.00         2.97
Technical Assistance and          (0.00)          (0.00)       (2.97)         (0.00)       (2.97)
Training
4. Refinancing of PPF             0.00             0.00         1.00           0.00         1.00



                                                - 26 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                11.68              0.00              3.97             2.00             17.65
                                           (10.56)            (0.00)            (3.97)            (0.00)           (14.53)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Investment Costs
Civil works                     0.00         0.20                                  0.00                   0.0      0.0
Equipment ( H/W and            12.20         0.00                    10.56         3.12                  86.6      0.0
Application S/W
Technical Assistance and        2.60         0.00                     2.97         0.00                  114.2     0.0
Training
Refinancing PPF                 1.00         0.00                     1.00         0.00                  100.0     0.0




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A.




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count              Specialty                          Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 1995                  2    Task Manager and Economist,
                                                   Informatics Specialist
              March 1996                      3    Task Manager and Economist,
                                                   Treasury Specialist (IMF)
                                                   Informatics Specialist
              April 1996                      5    Task Manager, Public Finance
                                                   Economist, Treasury specialist
                                                   (IMF), Informatics Specialist,
                                                   Procurement Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1996                      5    Task Manager, Public
                                                   Finance Economist, Treasury
                                                   specialist (IMF), Informatics
                                                   Specialist, Lawyer

 Supervision

              09/23/1996                      2    Sr. Informatics Specialist;             S              S
                                                   Sr. Public Finance
                                                   Economist/TTL
              12/02/1997                      2    Sr. Informatics Specialist;             S              S
                                                   Sr. Public Finance
                                                   Economist/TTL
              06/27/1998                      2    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL;        U               U
                                                   Operations Officer
              11/04/1998                      2    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL;        U               U
                                                   Operations Officer
              05/15/1999                      2    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL;         S              S
                                                   Operations Officer
              10/19/1999                      2    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL,         S              S
                                                   Economist
              05/23/2000                      1    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL          S              S
              11/18/2000                      1    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL          S              S
              10/20/2001                      1    Sr. Informatics Specialist/TTL          S              S
              04/13/2002                      1    Sr.. Informatics Specialist/TTL         S              S

 ICR
              10/15/2002-                     2     TTL/Informatics,                       S              S
              02/15/2003                            IMF Advisor

The IMF advisor either carried out parallel missions or participated directly in most supervision missions.




                                                    - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            30.5                         113.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 28.0                         98.20
  Supervision                          113.3                        504.72
  ICR                                     6.2                        37.85
  Total                                177.9                        753.87




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, Technical Annexe No: P-6840-KZ;
Bank Mission Back to Office Reports and Aide Memoires from 1995- 2002.




                                                - 33 -

- 34 -

