                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002815



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IBRD-77680 IBRD-81060)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 48.0 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                     FOR AN

           IRRIGATION REHABILITATION EMERGENCY PROJECT



                               December 17, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 2013)

          Currency Unit = Armenian Dram (AMD)
                    1.00 = US$0.0025
                 US$ 1.00 = 405.7 AMD

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 - December 31



           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAA             Analytical and Advisory Activity
ADS             Armenia Development Strategy
AF              Additional Financing
AMD             Armenian Dram
CF              Conversion Factor
CFSQC           Consulting Firm for Supervision and Quality Control
CIS             Commonwealth of Independent States
CPS             Country Partnership Strategy
DSP             Dam Safety Project
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FM              Financial Management
FMR             Financial Management Report
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GIS             Geographic Information System
GoA             Government of Armenia
Ha              hectare
HVC             Higher Value Crop
I&D             Irrigation and Drainage
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
IDP             Irrigation Development Project
IDSP II         Irrigation Dam Safety Project II
IFRs            Interim Financial Reports
IREP            Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project
IRP             Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ISEP            Irrigation System Enhancement Project
ISR             Implementation Status and Results Report
IT              Information Technology
LA              Loan Agreement
      Vice President: Laura Tuck
    Country Director: Henry G. R. Kerali
     Sector Manager: Dina Umali-Deininger
Project Team Leader: Arusyak Alaverdyan
   ICR Team Leader: Meeta Sehgal
                                            Republic of Armenia
                                Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project



                                                          CONTENTS


Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates.
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring
     I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... ..31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 48
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 50
A. Basic Information
                                                                          IRRIGATION
                                                                          REHABILITATION
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:
                                                                          EMERGENCY
                                                                          PROJECT
                                                                          IBRD-77680
Project ID:             P116681                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          IBRD-81060
ICR Date:               10/24/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        USD 30.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 47.98M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 48.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: State Committee for Water Management
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/28/2009     Effectiveness:             10/06/2009       10/06/2009
Appraisal:            06/08/2009     Restructuring(s):                           06/17/2011
Approval:             07/28/2009     Mid-term Review:                            04/27/2010
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2011       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                                     No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                                     No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before                 Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:         Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                                 90                  90
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry                10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural services and infrastructure                                       100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Henry G. R. Kerali                   Asad Alam
Sector Manager:              Dina Umali-Deininger                 Dina Umali-Deininger
Project Team Leader:         Arusyak Alaverdyan                   Giuseppe Fantozzi
ICR Team Leader:             Meeta Sehgal
ICR Primary Author:          Meeta Sehgal

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project (IREP)
were to: (i) improve water use efficiency in two selected irrigation schemes; and (ii)
foster immediate rural employment. These objectives were to be achieved by
rehabilitating primary irrigation canals to reduce water losses in two selected schemes,
and providing some limited assistance for restructuring and strengthening institutions
managing the irrigation infrastructure in the project areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised project development objectives were to: (i) improve water use efficiency in
selected irrigation schemes; and (ii) foster immediate rural employment. The Additional
Financing aimed to scale up and expand the geographic scope of the project by

                                                  ii
rehabilitating additional primary and secondary canals as well as selected stretches of
tertiary canals.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduction of water losses in the selected primary irrigation schemes
Value                      22.5%                     3%                7%               7%
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved             07/28/2009              07/29/2009         10/25/2011       06/30/2013
                  100% target achieved. At appraisal, the target was set to reduce water losses by
                  19.5 percent, so that after project rehabilitation works, seepages would be at 3
Comments
                  percent. During implementation, it was recognized that this target was
(incl. %
                  impossible to achieve even under ideal scenarios. A more feasible target was
achievement)
                  subsequently set to reduce seepage losses by 15-16 percent so that by end-of-
                  project seepage losses would be 7 percent.
Indicator 2 :     Number of temporary jobs created (man/month)
Value
quantitative or               0                    9,000            16,000             18,410
Qualitative)
Date achieved            07/28/2008             07/29/2009        10/25/2011        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded. Target achieved is 115% of end-of-project target.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of permanent agricultural jobs created
Value
quantitative or               0                    2,400             3,250             4,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved             07/28/2008             07/29/2009     10/25/2011         06/30/2013
Comments          Target exceeded. Target achieved is 123% of end-of-project target. These jobs
(incl. %          were created in the command areas that were served by the irrigation schemes
achievement)      that received support under the project.
Indicator 4 :     Value of wages generated (construction workers)
Value
quantitative or               0              US$ 4.58 million      US$ 8.2        US$ 8.6 million
Qualitative)                                                        million
Date achieved            07/28/2008             07/29/2009        10/25/2011        06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded. Target achieved is about 105% of end-of-project target.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Area provided with irrigation and drainage services (ha) –Core Indicator
Value
quantitative or           49,744 ha              53,507 ha                           56,295 ha
Qualitative)

                                                 iii
Date achieved            05/01/2011              11/01//2012                          06/30/2013
Comments
                  Over 100% target achieved. This indicator was added for corporate monitoring
(incl. %
                  purposes. It is the sum of the value of indicators 6 and 7 described below.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Area provided with irrigation and drainage services - New (ha) –Core Indicator
Value
quantitative or              0 ha                 4,586 ha                             6,551 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/01/2011              11/01/2012                           06/30/2013
Comments
                  142% of target achieved. This indicator was added for corporate monitoring
(incl. %
                  purposes.
achievement)
                  Area provided with irrigation and drainage services - Improved (ha) –Core
Indicator 7 :
                  Indicator
Value
quantitative or           49,744 ha               49,744 ha                           49,744 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved            05/01/2011              06/30/2013                           06/30/2013
Comments
                  100% target achieved. This indicator was added for corporate monitoring
(incl. %
                  purposes.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Direct Project Beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or               0                    118,000                             120,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/25/2011              10/25/2011                           6/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     (Of which) Female Beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or               0                     7.5%                                 7.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/25/2011              10/25/2011                           6/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% target achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                  Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                    approval                           Completion or
                                                                    Target Values
                                                   documents)                           Target Years
                  Potential increase of total irrigation area as a result of rehabilitation works on
Indicator 1 :
                  main/secondary canals
Value
                          28,275 ha               35,570 ha         83,210 ha         83,210 ha
(quantitative

                                                  iv
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            07/28/2009             07/29/2009           10/25/2011      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Restored irrigation area in communities with rehabilitated tertiary network.
Value
(quantitative                0 ha                  704 ha                              704 ha
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            10/25/2011             10/25/2011                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Business Plans of Water User Associations (WUA) developed
Value
(quantitative               None                      44                   44            44
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            07/28/2009             07/29/2009           10/25/2011      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% target achieved. The activity was completed under the original project.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Subsidy policy study completed
Value
(quantitative               None                                     Completed       Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            07/28/2009             07/29/2009           10/25/2011      06/30/2013
Comments
                  100% target achieved. The activity has been completed under the original
(incl. %
                  project.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     GIS WUA information system in place nation wide
Value
(quantitative                 18                      44                   44            44
or Qualitative)
Date achieved            07/28/2009             07/29/2009           10/25/2011      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% target achieved. The activity was completed under the original project.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                 DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     12/02/2009             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     8.27
  2     06/15/2010             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   22.90
  3     02/16/2011             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   26.98
  4     07/09/2011             Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   29.42

                                                  v
  5     05/08/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     39.68
  6     12/24/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     47.05
  7     06/25/2013     Moderately Satisfactory*         Satisfactory                     47.88

* The rating for DO achievement in the last ISR was Moderately Satisfactory as the target for the
indicator related to creation of permanent agricultural jobs was only partially met at the time.
However, by the time of ICR preparation/finalization, the target was achieved and in fact
exceeded the end-of-project target (see PDO indicator 3 above).

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional Financing was
                                                     undertaken to scale up the reach
                                                     and impact of project activities
                                                     and help mitigate the ongoing
                                                     effects of the economic and
                                                     financial crises and the resulting
 06/17/2011       Y       S       S          29.42
                                                     unemployment. Key changes
                                                     included: (i) revision of PDO;
                                                     (ii) revision of outcome
                                                     indicators; (iii) expansion of
                                                     geographic coverage; and (iv)
                                                     extension of closing date.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory




                                               vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.    Context at Appraisal

1.      Country Context. Armenia is a land-locked country in the Southern Caucasus region
with a population of about three million. Following the post-independence fiscal crises,
hyperinflation, and the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the Government of Armenia (GOA) initiated
a successful program of stabilization and structural reforms in the late 1990s. By the early 2000s,
the country was on the path to rapid economic recovery, marked by macroeconomic stability and
low inflation. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth averaged above 10 percent per year
and poverty fell from 55 percent to 26 percent between 2000 and 2008. Fiscal deficits and public
debt remained quite modest in relation to GDP, and were among the lowest in the Commonwealth
of Independent States (CIS).

2.       Although Armenia entered the 2009 global economic and financial crisis from a
relatively robust economic position, achievements in economic reforms and poverty reduction
were gradually threatened as the crisis adversely impacted construction activity, trade, and
foreign direct investment. GDP contracted in 2009 by 14.2 percent and overall economic growth
for 2010 was a mere 2.4 percent. Unemployment rose sharply as numerous mines closed or
slowed down production and infrastructure construction dropped by 56 percent in the first five
months of 2009 alone.

3.      Armenia’s domestic economy was also significantly exposed to a sharp decline in
remittances which was a key determinant of poverty reduction in Armenia. In 2007, total
remittances exceeded US$ 1.5 billion or around 18 percent of GDP. Remittances accounted for
over 55 percent of income for those who reported receiving them. However, with the global
economic crisis, and loss of job opportunities abroad, the level of remittances declined drastically
as migrants working abroad began returning home.

4.       These developments put substantial pressure on the economy as a whole, and especially
on the rural economy, and the government was hard pressed to provide an adequate social safety
net as tax receipts declined. Vulnerable groups were disproportionately affected, with increasing
numbers falling below the poverty line as the overall incidence of poverty grew between 2008
and 2010. Thus, Armenia, like many other countries, was severely impacted by the global
economic crisis which began to undermine its development agenda and erode the considerable
gains in poverty reduction of the past years.

5.      Sector Context. Agriculture in Armenia was (and remains) an important economic sector
representing about a fifth of GDP and employing some two-fifths of the country’s active
population. About 36 percent of Armenia’s population lives in rural areas and dependent on
agriculture for its livelihoods. Most agriculture in Armenia is irrigated agriculture, with more
than 80 percent of the agricultural GDP produced on irrigated areas. Thus irrigated agriculture is
essential for maintaining rural employment and economic growth in Armenia.

6.       Agricultural lands covered about 1.4 million hectares (ha), of which about 35 percent
were cultivated lands, and about 20 percent potentially irrigable. The irrigation infrastructure
comprised, inter alia, about 3,000 km of main and secondary canals, about 18,000 km of tertiary
canals, 81reservoirs, and 400 medium and large pumping stations. The demand for irrigation
water begins in late April, reaches its peak in early July and drops off in October. Nearly 80



                                                 1
percent of the irrigated area is supplied through open canals and 20 percent is supplied through
pipelines.

7.       With major sections of the irrigation water delivery system highly deteriorated, in the
mid-1990s, the Government launched a long-term national program to support the rehabilitation
and restructuring of the Irrigation and Drainage (I&D) system. The first phase of this long-term
program consisted of emergency interventions to secure continued operation. The government’s
efforts in this regard were supported by several IDA-financed operations including the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (IRP), Dam Safety Project (DSP), and the Irrigation Dam Safety Project II
(IDSP II).

8.       The second phase focused on restructuring and development with the overall aim of
building a solid basis for system sustainability. This objective was to be achieved through further
rehabilitation of critical structures, reduction of energy usage in the system and empowerment of
stakeholders in carrying out Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the system. The second phase
was initiated by the Bank-financed Irrigation Development Project (IDP). Some of the key
results achieved included introduction of Participatory Irrigation Management (PIMs) principles
through establishment of Water Users Associations (WUAs), substantial improvement in the cost-
recovery rate of the overall O&M expenses, increase in the number of hectares irrigated, and
reduction of the amount of energy and its costs, as well as reduction of water losses. Since 2006,
the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) also began supporting the irrigation sector in
Armenia through a program of infrastructure rehabilitation and institutional strengthening. Both
the Bank and MCC worked closely sharing design plans, studies, and analyses and coordinated
their efforts in the I&D sector for synergistic benefits.

9.       While Armenia had achieved substantial progress in improving the overall performance
of its I&D system and in establishing a basis for sustainable management of the I&D
infrastructure, at project appraisal, it was assessed that a substantial amount of work still
remained to be done. Despite significant investments since the mid-1990s, major sections of the
I&D system remained highly deteriorated. Also, while WUAs were making important gains with
irrigation fee collection and cost recovery rates, they were not yet financially sustainable and
continued to be dependent on government subsidies for effective operation and management.
These challenges had significant implications for establishing and maintaining a productive
irrigated agriculture sector in the country and for overall rural development. The government was
therefore keen to continue working on its unfinished agenda in the I&D sector and again sought
assistance for a Bank-financed project in 2009, not only to improve the I&D infrastructure but
also to use it as an instrument for providing short-term employment to rural communities affected
by the prevailing economic crisis.

10.      Rationale for Bank Assistance. Recognizing the importance for immediate action to
address the shocks of the ongoing economic and fiscal crises, the GoA acted swiftly to put in
place measures to withstand the adverse impacts of the crisis. Given the limited domestic
resources, it sought to leverage donor funding to support a modest fiscal stimulus, boost domestic
investments (especially for job creation), and scale up targeted social safety net programs. It
specifically requested assistance from the World Bank Group on three fronts: (i) a credit line for
small-to-medium sized enterprises (SMEs), to support real sector activity; (ii) budgetary support;
and (iii) urgent support for infrastructure that would generate employment. The aim was to
facilitate an early spending stimulus to counteract the increases in unemployment arising from job
losses in construction, metals and mining, and IT sectors.




                                                2
11.      In response, the Bank provided resources to the government to finance several operations,
including the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Emergency Project (IREP), each targeted at small-
scale infrastructure interventions aimed at stimulating immediate employment and stemming the
rising tide of poverty. These efforts were appropriately designed and processed as emergency
operations that provided a rapid response to put in place measures to mitigate or avert the
potential effects of crises in countries at high risk (OP/BP 8.0). The importance of irrigation
infrastructure in the agricultural sector, and in turn, for rural employment, justified the need for
IREP which was designed to foster both temporary (in construction through rehabilitation
activities) and permanent (in agriculture through restoration of irrigated lands) employment,
while simultaneously tackling some of the country’s most serious infrastructure needs. The
Project was in a position to get activities off the ground immediately as it could utilize existing
designs, produced under the MCC Program1 for canal rehabilitation works that would provide
immediate job opportunities to the large unskilled and unemployed labor force in some of the
poorest regions of Armenia.

12.      An additional and equally important rationale for Bank assistance through the project was
that the crisis posed serious risks to the sustainability of advances made in the irrigation sector.
Increased poverty would reduce the capacity of households to pay irrigation water fees, collection
rates and revenues would come under pressure, while utility operational costs would rise.
Between 2004 and 2008, irrigation fee collection rate had gone up by 55.7 per cent and cost
recovery ratio had increased from about 2.7 percent to 42 percent. If rural households faced
further constraints to payments, there was a risk that the upward trend in cost recovery,
maintenance budgets and planned improvements would be put in jeopardy. Also, as evidenced in
previous financial crises, water infrastructure spending bore a disproportionate share of the
decline in overall public investments; Bank support would help to address this financing need and
contribute to sustaining, and improving, the gains of previous years.


1.2.       Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

13.     The development objectives of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project were to:
(i) improve water use efficiency in two selected irrigation schemes; and (ii) foster immediate rural
employment. These were to be achieved by rehabilitating primary irrigation canals to reduce
water losses in two selected schemes, and providing some limited assistance to the restructuring
and strengthening of institutions managing the irrigation infrastructure in the Project areas.

Key Indicators:

           Reduction of water losses on the primary sections of Armavir and Talin schemes (cubic
            meters) -
           Number of temporary jobs created (man/months) and value of wages generated (based on
            average pay per day)
           Number of permanent agricultural jobs created




1
 MCC Program had down-scaled the scope of its program in the I&D sector and abandoned implementation of some
activities although it had already undertaken studies and prepared designs/plans for primary canals, drainage structures,
conversion schemes, etc. in the Ararat valley.


                                                            3
1.3.         Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators

14.    The revised PDOs were to: (i) improve water use efficiency in the selected irrigation
schemes; and (ii) foster immediate rural employment.

15.     Although the PDO under the Additional Financing (AF) was modified and a new
component (rehabilitation of tertiary canals) was added, the original indicators to measure project
impacts were maintained under the AF. This was because the AF simply expanded the
geographic scope of canal rehabilitation works. However, the targets to be achieved were revised
as follows to reflect the broadened scope of works:

       (i)        the volume of water savings was increased from 97 to 131 million cubic meters
                  (MCM) (35 percent increase);
       (ii)       temporary employment was increased from 9,000 to 16,000 person/days (77 percent
                  increase);
       (iii)      potential permanent employment created was increased from 2,400 to 3,250 jobs (35
                  percent increase); and
       (iv)       value of wages paid was increased from US$4.5 million to US$8.2 million (81
                  percent increase).

1.4.         Main Beneficiaries

16.      Under the original project, water users in the marzes of Armavir and Aragatsotn were
identified as the primary beneficiaries as the Armavir and Talin irrigation schemes were located
in these marzes. As the geographic scope of the project was expanded under the Additional
Financing, water users in Kotayk, Shirak, Lori, Ararat, and Gegarkunik marzes were brought
within the fold of the project and benefited from project interventions. It is estimated that
approximately 118,000 water users benefited under the project. However, this number does not
include the workers who participated in the rehabilitation activities and worked on the
construction sites from neighboring areas and other regions. The team has made a conservative
estimate of an additional 2,000 jobs to safeguard against double counting of water user
beneficiaries who also participated in the construction works during the winter season.

1.5.         Original Components (as approved)

17.            The original Project supported the following two components:

18.      Component 1: Rehabilitation of Primary Canals in Talin and Armavir Irrigation
Schemes (US$33.08 million). This component financed rehabilitation of 83.81 km of primary
canals (main and branch canals) in the Talin and Armavir schemes: 59.01 km of the Talin
Irrigation Scheme located in Aragatsotn and Armavir Marzes, as well as 24.80 km of the Armavir
Irrigation Scheme located in Armarvir Marz. The component included: (i) civil works for the
primary canal rehabilitation (US$31.51 million); and (ii) consultancy services for supervision of
rehabilitation works (US$1.57 million). The total cost of this component accounted for about 91.0
percent of the total Project costs. The costs of rehabilitation of primary canals in both systems
were mainly for concrete lining of the canal sections. Rehabilitation of all canal related structures
were financed by MCC under a separate arrangement.

19.    Component 2: Project Management and Institutional Activities (US$3.25 million).
The Component financed two sub-components, namely: (i) Project management and audits
(US$1.36 million); and (ii) Institutional strengthening (US$1.89 million). Under the first sub-


                                                     4
component, the project supported project management and monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
activities. It also provided resources for financial audits of the Project as well as audits of the
Araks-Akhuryan Water Supply Agency (WSA) and the Water User Associations (WUAs). The
second sub-component financed selected institutional strengthening activities that were deemed to
be particularly relevant for the progress of the ongoing reform based on Participatory Irrigation
Management principles. These relevant activities were: (a) sustaining the WUAs’ Support Group
that would continue to train WUAs and complete drafting of irrigation maps (GIS system) for all
WUAs in the country; (b) conducting an institutional strengthening study of the WUAs; (c)
piloting a Water Users Federation.

1.6.   Revised Components

20.     The Additional Financing supported the following three components:

21.      Component 1: Rehabilitation of identified stretches of primary canals (US$15.90
million) in the selected irrigation schemes. Six schemes were identified for support with
approximately 50 km of main and secondary canal sections to be rehabilitated. While the original
project focused on only two schemes, the AF targeted six schemes for support.

22.      Component 2: Rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation network (US$4.02 million) would
rehabilitate selected tertiary canals. Nineteen communities of Lori, Shirak, Gegharkunik and
Armavir marzes would benefit from improved water conveyance over about 2,500 hectares.
Beneficiary farmers would co-finance 15 percent of costs (contributions collected by MCC would
be made available before tendering). This was a new component added under the AF.

23.      Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Activities (US$1.68million). It
financed three sub-components: (a) Project management, monitoring and evaluation, and WUA
support; (b) Audits (PIU, WSAs and WUAs); and (c) Technical Assistance including studies for a
gravity scheme construction in the Meghri region. Activity (c) was the new activity introduced
under the AF.

1.7.   Other significant changes

24.      Additional Financing: On May 27, 2011, the Government of Armenia requested an
Additional Financing (AF) to IREP. The rationale of this request was to: (i) enhance IREP
development impact; (ii) respond to the growing demand from the rural poor for support to
rehabilitate irrigation structures; (iii) continue to provide short-term employment opportunities to
mitigate the effects of the ongoing economic and fiscal crisis; (iv) secure long-term jobs in the
agricultural sector; and (v) capitalize on the already prepared canal rehabilitation designs under
the MCC Program before these became obsolete. Although the AF was prepared on a fast-track
basis (within about three months), it was not processed as an emergency operation. As under the
original project, canals and canal sections selected for rehabilitation were based on the existence
of ready or almost-ready designs developed under the soon-to-be-closed MCC program as well as
their potential for employment generation and in particular poverty alleviation. The AF helped to
scale up the overall project impact and development effectiveness with potentially increased
reduction in water losses, a higher number of temporary jobs, increased potential for permanent
job creation, an increase in the value of wages and a higher potential for restoring irrigated area in
communities with rehabilitated tertiary networks. The AF extended the project closing date to
June 30, 2013.




                                                  5
25.      Extension of Closing Date of the Original Project. In order to finalize the institutional
strengthening study (which had suffered a slight procurement delay) as well as conduct
consultations on the findings of the study with key stakeholders, the closing date of the original
project was extended by six months-from June 30, 2011 to December 30, 2011. This extension
also allowed the Bank and Borrower to prepare and process the AF.

26.     Water Users Federation. In consultation with the government, in December 2010, it was
agreed to drop the sub-activity on piloting a Water Users Federation under the original project.
WUA establishment was still in relative infancy, with associations still being consolidated. At
the time of project implementation, water users were gradually becoming aware of the benefits of
membership in an association and while there was an upward trend in WUA establishment and
increased membership, it was premature to envisage the formation of a federation. Also, the high
costs associated with WUF establishment (in particular the heavy machinery needed for O&M of
main canals) and the relatively low income of farmers, it became evident that this activity should
be postponed to a later stage when the overall WUA system was more firmly established and
sustainable.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1.    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

27.     The original project was as an emergency operation prepared in response to the
prevailing economic crisis. Both the original project as well as the AF were prepared on a fast-
track basis, within about three months each. Despite such short duration of project preparation,
the proposed interventions were well designed to respond to the prevailing economic and
financial situation and quality at entry was sound which allowed the project to hit the ground
running.

28.      The team was guided by two principles: (i) identify canal rehabilitation works that could
be implemented immediately and rapidly; and (ii) maximize the potential for labor employment
creation. Thus the canals selected for project support were specifically those whose designs were
already prepared under the MCC program and the works could be completed within the two
construction seasons spanning the life of the project, without compromising quality or interfering
with the irrigation season. Works were kept simple, comprising essentially of re-lining primary
canals and replacing tertiary canal sections with pre-cast flumes and/or pipes. The team also
ensured that the canals selected were located in some of the poorest regions of the country where
unemployment was high. The six marzes selected for project support represented the top 50
percent of the poorest regions in Armenia. About 90 percent of project investments were invested
in these six marzes, with the three poorest marzes receiving about 40 percent of total investments.
This important design feature was critical to generate employment and in particular, contribute to
poverty alleviation in the neediest regions of Armenia where in some instances large segments of
the local communities were living substantially below the national poverty line. In Shirak marz,
for example, it was estimated that some 47.2 percent of the people were living below the national
poverty line.

29.     Additionally, the choice to rehabilitate primary canals in the project areas was
commensurate with the critical need to enhance the potential for irrigated agriculture. With more
than 80 percent of the agricultural production coming from irrigated area (excluding livestock), it
was important to provide sustained support to this sub-sector not only to maintain rural
employment but also promote economic growth in Armenia. So far the state investment program
had focused largely on headwork (dams) and on tertiary networks, and largely ignored the


                                                 6
primary canal systems. Project rehabilitation works, by reducing seepage in the primary and
tertiary canals, would improve water availability to beneficiary farmers and increase the potential
for irrigated agriculture.

30.       While the institutional strengthening program envisaged under the project was relatively
modest, the decision to include this component was important to ensure continued stakeholder
involvement/empowerment in the irrigation and drainage (I&D) sector. One lesson identified in
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of IDP was that strengthening Water Users
Associations (WUAs) was a long-term undertaking. Although IREP was essentially an
emergency project designed primarily to spur immediate employment in the short-term, it was
critical to continue to provide support for the institutional reform process initiated and supported
under the Irrigation Development Project (IDP) and not to lose the momentum of ongoing
reforms. The project appropriately designed this component as a small technical assistance
activity to, inter alia, support select studies/analyses to improve WUAs’ technical, organizational
and financial ability to carry out effective O&M of irrigation infrastructure, including options for
state assistance and cost recovery. However, project design was ambitious in its efforts of
piloting a WUA Federation. As mentioned earlier, this sub-component had to be dropped in
keeping with relatively nascent history of WUA development.

31.     One shortcoming of project design was the relatively unrealistic target set to measure
achievement of one of the main PDO indicators, i.e. reduction in water losses through project-
financed rehabilitation works. At appraisal, the target was set to reduce water losses by 19.5
percent, so that after project rehabilitation works, seepages would be at 3 percent down from 22.5
percent. During implementation, it was recognized that this target was impossible to achieve
even under ideal scenarios. A more feasible and attainable target was subsequently set to reduce
seepage losses by 15-16 percent.

32.      It must be acknowledged that given the rapid pace of project preparation due to the
emergency nature of the project, the team was operating within an extremely tight timeline which
prevented in-depth preparatory work and due diligence on some aspects of project design. This
was especially borne out by the technical issues of concern identified during a review of the canal
rehabilitation works undertaken in early 2013. The project had used designs prepared by MCC
and although these had been reviewed by the technical specialists in the PIU during project
preparation, the work was done rapidly. The team discovered, for example during the final stages
of project implementation, that there were inadequate energy dissipating structures (such as
stilling basins) in canals in the Talin scheme on steep slopes which could lead to high flow
velocity, causing difficulties not only with flow regulation, but also result in spill-overs. Also,
there were limited numbers of cross regulators along main canals in the scheme which limited the
capacity for water control. The MCC designs chosen for project support did not include control
structures as these were supposed to have been built by the MCC. However, the MCC program
closed before undertaking such works.

33.      The project team has requested the Borrower to address these issues. The PIU has
indicated that the energy dissipating structures are not required as the flow velocity in the
rehabilitated canals is within Armenian standards and any overtopping has been not due to a
design flaw but the volume of water transfer exceeding design capacity. The potential for
overtopping is along 150 meters of a 37 km long secondary canal and the Borrower has agreed
that the canal walls would be raised once the specific sites are identified. The cost of this is not
expected to be more than US$7,000 and will be financed from the state budget. The Borrower
has also agreed to carry out field observations at various water depths to collect reliable data to



                                                  7
determine the appropriate locations for control structures on main canals which will subsequently
be installed with financing also from the state budget. The Bank will follow up on this during
implementation of the new Bank-financed project in the irrigation sector, ISEP, to ensure that
these actions are indeed undertaken given the environmental risk of non-action. Additionally,
there is a reputational risk for the Bank should these actions not be undertaken in a timely
manner.

34.      The project’s Quality at Entry was satisfactory. All implementation arrangements were
in place by project effectiveness. The project was able to capitalize on the IDP that had just
closed a few months before (March 2009) as well as the ongoing Dam Safety Project. These
Bank-financed projects had helped put an experienced PIU in place that was familiar with Bank
safeguard, fiduciary and M&E procedures and requirements. The PIU had the necessary
systems/controls already in place which allowed the project to get off the ground rapidly. All
contracts for rehabilitation works were tendered before project effectiveness and signed within
two weeks of project effectiveness. The Supervision and Quality Control foreign consultant
(company) was also selected by project effectiveness and hired after such effectiveness. This
allowed the project to launch execution of the civil works soon after the irrigation season was
over which was critical to ensuring that employment was generated as soon as possible. The fact
that the original project disbursed about 14.3 percent of the total loan amount under the original
project (US$30 million) within one month of project effectiveness is testimony to the overall
sound preparatory work undertaken by the Borrower and the Bank teams.

2.2.   Implementation

35.      Overall, project implementation was smooth and the project was never at risk of not
achieving its objectives. As project interventions related to civil works could only be carried out
during the irrigation off-season, i.e. November to May, procurement activities were completed in
advance of project effectiveness, both under the original project and the AF. This allowed civil
works contracts to be signed immediately upon effectiveness and project implementation to
commence right away. Most of the rehabilitation works moved at a fast pace with several
contracts completed earlier than anticipated. By mid-term of the original project (6 months after
effectiveness), all planned sections of the Armavir main canal (24.8 km) had been rehabilitated
and nearly 45 percent of the Talin main canal (25 km out of 59 km) had been completed. 60
percent of loan proceeds had already been disbursed by mid-term review (MTR). Primary canal
works under the AF were also completed considerably ahead of schedule. There were no
significant delays with reporting, disbursements were made in a timely manner and all loan
proceeds were disbursed by project closing.

36.      Regular review/monitoring of activity implementation allowed the implementation team
to make adjustments as necessary in a timely manner which strengthened the likelihood of the
project achieving its PDO. For example, during field visits soon after project effectiveness, the
team discovered the need for rehabilitation works in additional stretches of the canals which were
not originally marked for rehabilitation by the 2006 MCC-financed preliminary design report.
Visual inspection for verification of the rehabilitation works had not been possible as both
primary canals were running full for irrigation purposes. However, the necessary additional work
became evident once the canals were empty and could be visually inspected (the canals had
deteriorated further between 2006 and 2009). Also, many large sinkholes were discovered and
along the canals that needed to be filled in. Appropriate quantity variations were made in the
civil works contracts (about 11 percent over the tendered quantity of the project) which was
easily possible due to the built-in provision of 5 percent contingencies in each of the contracts as
well as the potential savings of approximately US$5 million (discussed below).


                                                 8
37.      Similarly, the team revised the design of the concrete lining joints although the unit cost
of the new water seal joints was about two and a half times higher than that tendered during
project preparation. Most of the water quantity losses in the past were due to leaky joints that
washed out the fine soil particles from behind the lining and the foundation underneath resulting
in large holes and voids that in turn resulted in substantial water leakage spots and in several
cases a total failure of the canal section. With a critical objective of the project being the
prevention of high seepage losses, this variation in design was appropriate. The contract unit
costs on average were smaller than the estimates by about 16 percent. This was mainly a
consequence of the economic crisis in the construction sector that introduced higher competition
for the limited number of potential contracts. These savings were sufficient for all the civil works
variation orders; after signing all variation orders, there were still savings in the range of almost
US$4 million. This allowed the project to finance additional civil works, including a 7.0 km long
earth section of the Armavir canal and small additional sections in the Talin canal.

38.      Some project interventions were scaled back during implementation. Under the AF, the
length of tertiary canals to be rehabilitated was reduced to 50 km from 63 km that was planned at
appraisal. A technical review during implementation demonstrated that rehabilitation works on
the additional 13 km were not necessary as the lining was in adequate shape. The institutional
strengthening component was also reduced in scope under the original project to avoid
duplication with ongoing MCC-supported activities. The activity of GIS mapping for WUAs and
the Water Supply Agencies (WSAs) as well as most of the topics under the institutional
strengthening study were transferred to the MCC for implementation. The project financed only
select elements of the WUAs strengthening study, including: (i) development of business plans
for each of the 44 operating WUAs; (ii) formulation of alternative mechanisms of state subsidy
allocation to WUAs; and (iii) based on analysis of WUAs and their performance,
recommendations on how to proceed with Federations of WUAs (which was subsequently
dropped). Although overall project progress was good and in some cases activities were
completed before their end dates, the institutional strengthening study however suffered a slight
procurement delay which resulted in an extension of the project closing date by six months –
from June 30, 2011 to December 30, 2011 to allow consultations and finalization of the study.
The team was however able to use this extension of closing date for preparation of the AF.

39.      During the mid-term mission, the Government requested IREP financing, in addition to
the Akhuryan-Araks Water Supply Agency (WSA), audits of the other two WSAs in the country,
viz. Sevan Hrazdan and Debed-Aghstev although they were not beneficiaries of the project.
Savings under the audit sub-component allowed the inclusion of audits for the two WSAs. This
could be undertaken without amending the Loan Agreement (LA) as the LA simply referred to
these agencies as “irrigation institutions” without specifically singling them by name for project
support.

40.      As mentioned earlier, an additional financing to IREP was approved by the Board in
October 2011 and became effective in December 2011. The AF was designed to support similar
activities as under the original project and scaled up the impact and reach of the project. The AF
extended the project closing date to June 30, 2013.

2.3.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

41.     The M&E framework under the project was simple and practical. It was designed to
measure the impact of the combined PDO and to that end, it measured two indicators related to
the rehabilitation works, including percentage of reduced water losses and changes in irrigated


                                                 9
areas and one indicator to capture project impact on incremental temporary construction
employment and value of wages generated. Employment was measured simply by obtaining
monthly lists of personnel engaged in the civil works from contractors. Permanent agricultural
employment was derived from the GIS database of WUAs.

42.      The PIU was responsible for project monitoring and updating project monitoring
indicators on a regular basis. The Supervision and Quality Control firm closely monitored
rehabilitation works at the construction sites, with technical supervisors permanently on site. The
PIU was also staffed with a construction supervisor engineer who undertook regular field visits to
ensure compliance with design and quality of work. A technical auditing of finished sections of
the canals was also performed by the consultants (jointly with the Armenian Design Institute for
Water Works) to review the seepage conditions in the rehabilitated sections. The Supervision and
Quality Control firm provided the PIU with monthly progress reports, which included lists of the
number of personnel engaged in the construction works. This helped to track the number of
temporary jobs created under the project.

2.4.   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.      The safeguards triggered under the project included: Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01); Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12), Pest Management (OP 4.09) and Projects on
International Waterways (OP 7.50).

44.      The project was classified as an Environmental Category B (Partial Assessment). This
was appropriate given that no new construction was to be financed, no hydraulic structures were
to be repaired and any impacts on the environment and human health due to implementation of
agreed project interventions would be minor.

45.      No major safeguard issues arose during project implementation. Compliance with
provisions of the safeguards was satisfactory throughout the life of the project. A review of the
civil works undertaken demonstrated that construction works were completed without any
negative impacts on the environment. Project sites were predominantly located in areas with little
natural vegetation and the works did not pose notable risks to the flora and fauna or cause other
disruptions of the local ecosystem. No construction waste was left at the project sites and the
clean-up after completion of works was satisfactory. Although some rehabilitated parts of canals
passed through villages, in the immediate proximity to private land plots and residential houses,
no temporary or permanent restriction of the property use occurred as contractors had sufficient
access to canals from the service roads that ran along one side of the canals. Also, no fruit trees
or other objects had to be removed during construction as had been anticipated at appraisal.
While OP4.09 was triggered, no necessity arose for preparation of a Pest Management Plan.
However, a public awareness campaign on good pest and pesticide management was undertaken.
Although project interventions were undertaken in trans-boundary river basin and OP7.50
(Projects on International Waters) was triggered, notification of project activities to riparian
countries was not made as an exemption for this had been granted by the Regional Vice
President.

46.      It must be noted, however, that reporting on the environmental supervision of works
remained relatively weak throughout the project life. The Supervision consultant provided
monthly reports from individual work sites and while some of these provided a realistic overview
of compliance with the environmental requirements, some reports consistently indicated perfect
compliance which makes their accuracy questionable. Some of the general monthly progress
reports from the supervision consultant were not supported by relevant documentation on


                                                10
environmental monitoring of works and all reports lacked an analytical narrative on the status of
safeguards compliance. Additionally, the PIU's filing system for record keeping on
environmental supervision of works was inadequate. The Supervisor's reports, while available at
the PIU, were not stored in a user-friendly, systemic manner. These shortcomings may have been
avoided had the PIU retained a safeguards specialist (even on a part-time basis) over the course of
project implementation. To offset this deficiency, the Bank’s safeguard specialist undertook
frequent and rigorous site visits and diligently assessed and ensured compliance with
environmental requirements.

47.      Financial Management. The Bank financial management (FM) team regularly conducted
FM implementation support and supervision of the project. The FM arrangements in place for the
project implementation, including planning and budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, flow
of funds, external audits and staffing were satisfactory. Overall, the PIU’s internal control system
was found to be acceptable to the Bank and was assessed to be capable of providing timely
information and reporting on the project as well as safeguarding of the project assets. The FM
staff was experienced in implementation of the WB-financed projects. The PIU prepared and
submitted quarterly Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs) for the project that were always
received on time and were acceptable to the Bank. The auditors issued unmodified (clean)
opinions on the project financial statements which were received on-time. No major issues were
raised by the auditors in the management letters for the project audit. Counterpart financing was
overall satisfactory during the life of the project.

48.      The audit reports on the financial statements of the beneficiary entities (WSAs and the 44
WUAs were usually received on-time. Meanwhile the auditors mostly issued modified opinions
on those entities’ financial statements due to accountability and internal control issues observed.
In these instances, the entities were obligated to prepare time-bound action plans to implement
the recommendations of the auditors. The PIU regularly followed up with the entities on the
implementation of auditors’ recommendations to ensure that these were adequately addressed.

49.      Procurement. At appraisal, procurement risk was rated high but with the agreed
mitigation measures, it was rated moderate. Overall procurement under the project was
satisfactory. Given the large number of contracts under the project, the PIU was staffed with two
procurement specialists. Both specialists had served in the PIU for over 10 years and therefore
had extensive experience with different types of procurement and were deeply familiar with Bank
procurement guidelines. The specialists carried out their responsibilities effectively with
technical support from the Plan and Design Department in the PIU. Procurement activities were
also well coordinated with accounting departments within the PIU to enable fast-track
procurement.

2.5.   Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

50.       Although significant results were achieved in the I&D sector through implementation of
national and donor-supported efforts since the mid-1990s, much remains to be done to exploit the
full potential of irrigated agriculture in Armenia. To consolidate the achievements of IREP and
past operations, as well as continue the government’s agenda of upgrading the irrigation
infrastructure and building the institutional capacity among water users, the Bank, at the request
of the government, has prepared the Irrigation System Enhancement Project (ISEP), a US$30
million loan designed to: (i) reduce the amount of energy used and to improve the irrigation
conveyance efficiency in targeted irrigation schemes; and (ii) improve the availability and
reliability of important sector data and information for decision makers and other stakeholders.
These objectives are envisaged to be achieved through: (i) conversion of pump-based irrigation to


                                                11
gravity irrigation; (ii) the rehabilitation of selected outlet canals receiving high-cost water from
pumping stations that cannot be converted and that have already been rehabilitated under the
MCC program; and (iii) the provision of updated and reliable data that are critical for irrigation
water management, such as the amount of financial resources needed for O&M and extraordinary
maintenance, performance indicators to measure the operational effectiveness of water
institutions, and the amount of water entering the irrigation system and being delivered to the
WSAs and WUAs in real time.

51.      The project became effective on July 13, 2013, and implementation is now underway. As
indicated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), it is expected that ISEP will reduce the
energy consumption in the irrigation system by about 30 percent, thus enhancing Armenia's self-
sufficiency in the energy sector. It will address the need for transparency and accountability in
the sector that will help improve the performance and governance of the institutions responsible
for the management of irrigation. It will contribute to the implementation of the broader water
resources management agenda and to climate change mitigation (through the reduction in energy
consumption) and adaptation (through support for increased irrigation conveyance efficiency) in
Armenia. Thus the ISEP, like the IREP, will serve as one in a series of ongoing efforts,
contributing to the country’s ultimate goal of ensuring efficient, cost-effective and sustainable
irrigation.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes
3.1.    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

52.      The project’s objectives, design and implementation continue to be highly relevant to
Armenia's current development and strategic priorities. The Armenia Development Strategy
(ADS) 2013-2025 clearly articulates the need for policies that, inter alia, accelerate sustainable
economic growth and reduce poverty, including eliminating extreme poverty. The ADS is the
country’s main socio-economic development strategy that articulates Armenia’s long-term
development vision and forms the basis for medium-term sectoral and other program documents.
During the first five years of ADS, employment growth has been identified as a key priority
which is seen as an outcome of the implementation of policies and interventions in vital sectors of
the economy, including agriculture. The country’s development program specifically articulates
that “irrigation systems will continue to remain a priority for public investments”. For the entire
period of the program, annual capital investments in the irrigation system are expected to amount
to 0.3 percent of the GDP. The target of the investment policy is the expansion of irrigated land
areas (within the existing irrigation systems) and higher efficiency of the system. On the
institutional side, management reforms of the irrigation system are expected to continue and are
aimed to further strengthen the already-formed participatory management schemes (WUAs). The
Government also intends to continue its program of financial support to WUAs in the form of
current grants in accordance with the relevant regulations for provision of public financial
support2. The tariff policy aims to gradually increase the current cost recovery level of the tariffs
from current 47 percent recovery rate to 120 percent recovery rate by 2025.




2
  Order of the government of Armenia No. 398-N dated 10 March 2011 “Regulating the process of provision of state
financial support in the form of current grants to water user associations in 2012-2016”.




                                                       12
53.     Continued project relevance is also demonstrated by the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for FY2014-FY2017, which was presented to the Bank’s Board on November 7, 2013.
The strategy is designed to support the government of Armenia with “boosting shared prosperity
and reducing poverty through accelerated economic growth and job creation”. Towards this, the
strategy has identified several strategic areas of intervention, including sustainably improving the
rural economy in a holistic manner. In this context, the CPS acknowledges the importance of
implementing rural infrastructure projects, including in the irrigation sub-sector. The CPS
specifically states that ongoing irrigation projects will be instrumental in restoring irrigation
systems, enhancing their sustainability, and strengthening the participatory management of the
networks through Water Users Association, including greater representation of women.

3.2.   Achievement of Project Development Objectives

54.     The impetus of the project was to provide immediate rural employment to assist
communities counter the effects of the prevailing economic and fiscal crisis that was plunging an
increasing number of people into poverty while simultaneously promoting agricultural
productivity by improving water use efficiency. The project achieved these objectives, with
several performance indicators exceeding the end-of-project targets.

55.      As mentioned earlier, households in the project areas, which comprised some of the
poorest regions of Armenia, were hit especially hard during the crisis as remittances declined
drastically and jobs were lost as construction and mining activities slowed down. An increasing
number of migrants were returning home, and few if any, were leaving for employment
opportunities abroad. Those dependent on agriculture for their livelihoods were losing the means
to continue farming and invest in agriculture as prices of agricultural inputs rose. The acreage of
land cultivated decreased due to reduced cash flows and depressed markets. In some villages
more than three-fourths of the livestock herd was slaughtered to generate income from the sale of
meat to purchase food and pay utility bills. With poverty projected to increase by about 5.2
percentage points between 2008 and 2010 and GDP growth projected at a mere 1.2 percent in
2010, economic prospects, especially for the rural poor, appeared largely bleak.

56.      Against this background, the project served as an urgent and timely intervention in
providing rural communities with jobs and wages and stemming their downward spiral into
poverty. It enabled the rural labor force to be gainfully employed at a time when there were few
opportunities for earning a livelihood. It provided under-employed and seasonally inactive
farmers access to alternative sources of income as most of the employment created was during
winter months. It thus functioned as an important and productive safety net, allowing families to
afford the basic necessities of food and shelter. While households of workers that received wages
through employment under the project benefited directly, the infusion of resources
(approximately US$8.6 million) within communities had a significant local multiplier effect. By
increasing project beneficiaries’ purchasing power, it stimulated the overall demand for, and
growth of, local goods and services and thereby had a positive impact on the local economy as a
whole.

57.      Rehabilitation works that were implemented under the project have arrested further
deterioration of the targeted infrastructure. Canal rehabilitation has reduced water seepage losses
from about 23 percent to about 6-7 percent which not only resulted in restoring/improving
irrigation water supply to nearly 50,000 ha of land but also brought about 6,551 ha of new land
under irrigation. About 118,000 water users now have access to reliable and secure irrigation
water. The improvements in conveyance efficiency have substantially reduced the time taken to
provide irrigation water to farmers. During a field visit to the Armavir irrigation scheme, farmers


                                                 13
indicated that on a particular 26 km canal stretch, before project rehabilitation works, it took 40
hours for the water to travel from the canal head to the tail end; after canal re-lining, this time was
reduced to 12 hours.

58.      The improvement in irrigation service, in terms of quantity, reliability and timely
delivery, is gradually leading to improvements in overall agricultural production/productivity in
the project areas. Farmers are benefiting not only from increases in crop yields, but are also now
more confident about investing in their farms and expanding their operations. The project was
instrumental in creating permanent agricultural jobs and in fact, permanent agricultural jobs
generated under the project exceeded the target set at appraisal - 4,000 by project-end vis-à-vis
3,250 estimated at appraisal. This is remarkable given that the rehabilitation activities were
implemented in some of the poorest regions of the country where farmers had limited resources
for capital investments. Also, these estimates are conservative as they do not factor in the non-
farm jobs potentially created upstream and downstream due to increased production.

59.      Farmers are moving to cultivating higher value crops and there is a rising trend especially
towards planting orchards. During field visits, several farmers indicated that they are now
planting vineyards as there is a greater reliability of irrigation water. As costs associated with
vineyards are high, the government is assisting these farmers with subsidized inputs. A larger
number of project farmers are also now looking to establish greenhouses to grow horticultural
products. Green house tomatoes, although still in limited quantities, are being sold during winter
months when open-soil tomatoes are not available. This provides farmers with improved incomes
as greenhouse products fetch higher prices than those grown traditionally. For example, the sale
price of tomatoes grown in greenhouses is 1,500 AMD/kilo while those grown in the open field
sell for 35 AMD/kilo.

60.      Farmers are also benefiting economically due to the reduced overall cost of irrigation as a
result of project interventions. With improved volume of water flow, there is now a less
dependence on pumped irrigation and a greater reliance on gravity to supply irrigation water,
especially to the tail-end farmers. This has significant implications for reduced energy
consumption and cost savings to farmers. The Khoy WUA in the lower Hrazdan irrigation
scheme in Armavir marz, for example reported that electricity use has gone down by 3 million
kilowatts annually mainly due to IREP-supported canal rehabilitation works. The WUAs are thus
seeing lower overall O&M costs and are in a position to reduce the amount of subsidies requested
from the government to meet O&M expenditures.

61.      The project also largely achieved its objectives on the institutional side. The WUA
Support group was successfully institutionalized within the State Committee of Water
Management (SCWM) which mainstreamed WUA-support efforts within the overall mandate of
the SCWM. This underscored the government’s commitment to continue to provide technical,
organizational and financial assistance to WUAs until such time that they matured and became
self-sustaining. The WUA subsidy policy study was completed and provided the government
with options for future state assistance to the WUAs. The study involved an assessment of each
WUA’s needs in carrying out its O&M. Its overall recommendations also drew from the
experiences and lessons learned in other countries and their applicability to the Armenian
situation and needs. Thus while the project did not enact policy changes, it undertook critical
preparatory work for such policy discussions and decision-making in the future.

62.     The project supported the WUAs with the development of 3-year business plans based on
the detailed needs assessment undertaken during the subsidy policy study. Additionally, training



                                                  14
was provided to a broad spectrum of WUA members, including the WUA executive body,
members of the Administrative Council, Dispute Settlement Committee, Supervising Committee
and farmer representatives. Training modules included inter alia, participatory training methods,
WUA governance and management, dispute resolution, planning and budgeting for O&M, and
accounting. It is expected that such training will strengthen WUA capacity to function effectively
which will also help attract a larger membership, improved fee collection rates, as well as build
trust and confidence among water users for WUAs.

63.     Thus the project achieved its overall objectives and successfully responded to the critical
needs of the time. It served as an effective emergency operation by getting off the ground swiftly
and yielding positive results rapidly. It provided communities with immediate employment,
urgently-needed incomes and a source of livelihood in the short-term to help ride out the
economic crisis. Project rehabilitation works contributed to slowing down the incidence and
depth of poverty in the poorest regions of the country. It also contributed to improving irrigated
agriculture, one of the main drivers of economic growth and rural employment in Armenia.

3.3.   Efficiency

64.       Rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure was expected to have the following benefits: (i)
reduced water losses; (ii) areas returning to irrigation as more water reaches more farm land; and
(iii) increased productivity as a result of improved availability of water (in quantity and
opportunity). Reduced water losses would also reduce cost of irrigation as less water needs to be
pumped, and also an increase in the availability of water in the tail end of the irrigation systems,
introducing more equity among farmers. For this assessment, the financial effect on farmers'
income and the economic impact on the overall economy were estimated based on the following
benefits: (i) the incremental value of production from the lands where irrigation water was
restored; (ii) the increased yields on those irrigated areas where water provision was improved
(mainly on the tail-end sections) and (iii) the increased production value due to changes in
cropping patterns on the irrigated lands, as water became more reliable and failure crop risks are
reduced.

65.      Fourteen crop models and two farm models were constructed to estimate the financial
impact of the project at the beneficiaries’ livelihood level. Models used conservative assumptions
regarding yield increases and costs involved. With the project, benefited farmers’ annual net
income was estimated to be growing from an average of AMD 542,000 to AMD 1.2 million in
the Armavir area (US$ 1,320 to US$ 2,970); and from AMD 1.45 million to AMD 2.5 million
Net income increases result from the expansion of the farms activities due to more reliable water
being made available in a timely manner, allowing for more frequent watering of crops, improved
productivity and also farmers disposition to invest in higher value crops (HVCs) as risk of water
shortage is reduced. The area under irrigation in the Talin and Armavir canal command area has
increased from 32,761 ha to 33,535 ha between 2008 and 2012. Wheat and alfalfa have reduced
their area from 41 to 30 percent, while the HVCs increased their share from 59 to 70 percent. This
evolution confirms a tendency already observed in the previous IDP areas.

66.     Project economic results were estimated from the aggregate cropping patterns evolution
and the crop’s financial budgets, using few adjustments to the existing market prices. Most values
express adequately their shadow (or economic) values given that Armenia presents a fairly open
economy. Adjustments were introduced only for rural labor and irrigation water costs. Unskilled
labor was adjusted with a 0.7 conversion factor (CF) given the relatively high level of under-
employment in rural areas in Armenia. Additionally, as the market (or financial) cost of water
(AMD 11 per cubic meter) constitutes a value fixed administratively by the GOA its economic


                                                  15
price was adjusted with a CF of 1.7 resulting in an economic price of AMD 18.7 per cubic meter.
The difference between the financial and economic prices is covered by subsidies directly
delivered by the GoA to the WUAs.

67.      The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the IREP was estimated at 21.2%. Using
a discount rate of 12 percent, the project economic NPV is AMD 34.2 billion (US$82.4 million).
The analysis also showed that the results are different for each of the three project areas, and in
all areas the economic NPV is positive: (i) in the Armavir area the ERR is 22 percent; (ii) in the
Talin area the ERR is 12.9 percent; and (iii) in the other areas where tertiary canals were
rehabilitated the ERR is 65.4 percent. The reason making these different results is the amount
invested per benefitted area: in Talin the cost was almost three times the amount invested per ha
in Armavir, while in the other areas the investment cost per ha was only about one fourth of the
cost in Armavir. Results from the Talin irrigation investments might seem to be marginal, but if
other non-quantified benefits were to be added to the assessment, the ERR would be improve
significantly. Electricity consumption for pumping irrigation water in Armenian systems was
reduced from 235,700 KWH on average per year for 2004 – 2006, to 125,100 KWH per year for
2010 – 2012 due to the infrastructure improvements introduced by the IDP and the IREP reducing
the electricity used per cubic meter of water delivered to farmers from 0.39 KWH to 0.29 KWH.
The cost reductions not only improve profitability of irrigation in the systems but also, create
more competitive conditions for further investments and expansion of the irrigation.

68.     Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in
availability and water use efficiencies, together with the consolidation and continuous
improvement of the adopted PIM, enhances the competitiveness of the irrigated agriculture in
Armenia. The dynamic and professional attitude shown by WUAs improving the O&M of the
systems is having a significant effect on the quality of the water service delivery and on farmers’
incomes. The persistent tendency of the rehabilitated systems towards changing cropping patterns
towards HVCs is the best evidence that the IREP improvements are to be sustainable.

69.      Sensitivity analysis of the expected results shows that the project impact is solid even if
adverse factors affect the irrigated agricultural production business in Armenia. If farm gate
prices of all main agricultural products considered in the assessment would drop by 20 percent,
the ERR would then still be 16.2 percent. If production costs for all crops considered would
increase by 20 percent, the ERR would become 18.4 percent. Finally, if both adverse events
would occur jointly (farm gate prices dropping by 20 percent and costs of production increasing
by 20 percent), then the resulting ERR of the project would then drop to 12.9 percent. These
results show that the IREP would have a positive result even in the most adverse unlikely
situation.

3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

70.      The overall outcome rating of the project is satisfactory given that project relevance,
efficacy and efficiency are rated satisfactory. The project achieved its objectives of reducing
irrigation water losses and providing immediate rural employment. These outcomes remain
highly relevant to Armenia’s overall development program of sustainable economic growth and
reduced poverty. Through implementation of simple rehabilitation works, the project achieved a
strong impact on the ground providing much-needed employment to large swaths of the rural
population in some of the poorest regions of the country. With poverty still widespread, the
activities supported by the project lend themselves to replication for a larger impact.
71.


                                                 16
3.5.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

72.      The project had a considerable impact on addressing poverty in Armenia, albeit largely in
the short-term. By creating much-need employment opportunities for large swaths of unskilled
(and some skilled) labor force in the six marzes, it provided water users and households in some
of the poorest communities of the country with a critical source of livelihood. While the project
did create about 4,000 permanent agricultural jobs, however, it must be pointed out that most of
the jobs (18,410 man/months) were temporary in nature and therefore project benefits in terms of
longer-term poverty alleviation were limited. The project served more as a stop-gap measure to
help poor rural communities ride out the economic and fiscal crisis.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

73.       The project financed select institutional strengthening activities, primarily in the form of
technical assistance, to continue reforms initiated under the IDP towards participatory
management principles in the irrigation sector. Resources allocated for this this activity were
limited, yet significant. It allowed the WUA Support Group to continue functioning and
subsequently be absorbed into the State Committee for Water Management (SCWM). This was a
critical achievement as its location within the PIU jeopardized its future existence given the
temporary nature of the PIU. Mainstreaming the Support Group into the SCWM also signaled the
government’s continuing support for technical, organizational and financial support to WUAs in
the longer-term and enabled seamless coordination of work in the area of irrigation water supply
and management.

74.      While the project was unable to pilot a Water Users Federation (as discussed above), it
supported interventions to help the government with ensuring future sustainability of the
irrigation system. The ultimate goal of the government is to develop WUAs into self-governed
and self-financed entities. However, currently, most WUAs have low fee collection capacity
(estimated at 45 percent) and inadequate budgets for effective O&M. The state funding of WUAs
is primarily directed to cover the financial gap between WUA costs and fees collected from water
users. It is important for the government to provide sufficient budget allocation for adequate
irrigation system maintenance until full cost-recovery for the whole irrigation system is achieved
by the WUAs. In this context, the project financed a study to analyze options for providing
financial assistance to WUAs from the state budget. Currently the subsidies are based on the
traditional expenditure method which takes into account the WUAs’ planned budgets, planned
electricity consumption and the technical state of the infrastructure under their management.
There is a need to move from the current traditional approach to an alternative results-based
approach. The study looked at experiences in other countries for providing subsidies / grants to
WUAs and based on these experiences and their applicability to Armenia, made several
recommendations. However, these yet need to be reviewed for their viability. While the project
did not undertake this exercise, ISEP is focusing, in part, on several aspects of institutional
strengthening, including the issue of cost recovery and WUA subsidies. Thus while IREP did not
enact policy changes, it financed the preparatory work for such policy discussions and decision-
making.

75.     The project contributed to strengthening WUA performance by financing two specially-
developed software applications: (i) GIS-based water management software designed to enable
analysis of lands, electricity consumed, actual irrigation water losses, fee collection rate and


                                                 17
debts, water intake from the source by each irrigation system, water distribution within inter-
communal and on-farm irrigation systems, water users, signed water delivery agreements,
irrigated areas, crops, volume of water delivered to water users, payments by water users and
arrears, water usage plans, and envisaged electricity quotas; and (ii) accounting software that
helped with fiduciary aspects of the WUAs. The information and data available from these
applications helped all 44 WUAs with preparation of their 3-year business plans (2011-2014)
designed to help with increasing irrigation efficiency and lowering O&M costs.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

76.      Canal rehabilitation works also resulted in a positive impact on households living close to
the project-supported canals. Due to deteriorated canal linings, water would seep into houses,
compromising their structural integrity as well as increasing indoor humidity that resulted in
strong odors and mold formation. About 20-30 residences adjacent to the canal in Kosh and
Aragats villages had been subjected to these dangerous and unhygienic conditions in the past.
With repaired linings and a significant reduction in water seepage, these houses were no longer
affected by water damage. Residents in these affected villages expressed their deep appreciation
for the project and the impact it had on improving their living conditions.

3.6.   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

74.     Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

75.     At the time of project completion, the risk that development outcomes will not be
sustained is low. There is a continuous commitment to appropriate economic, financial and
sector policies on the part of the Government as evidenced in its development strategy: Armenia
Development Strategy 2013-2025. The ADS clearly articulates the long-term development vision
for Armenia: creating jobs, building human capital, strengthening the social protection system
and modernizing public administration and governance.

76.      Agriculture continues to play a key role in the country’s overall efforts towards economic
development, job creation, and poverty reduction. Irrigated agriculture is crucial to the
agricultural sector's performance, given that it accounts for about 80 percent of the sector
contribution to GDP. Acknowledging the place of agriculture in developing a sustainable growth
path for the economy after the setback of 2009, the government of Armenia has reinforced its
support for the irrigation sector and taken steps to sustain and broaden the results and outcomes of
IREP. In this context, the new Bank-financed ISEP will also contribute to maintaining and
enhancing the gains achieved under IREP. The institutionalization of the WUA Support Group
within the State Committee for Water Resources (achieved under IREP) has provided an effective
mechanism for the government to work closely with the WUAs to build their capacity for
efficient O&M of the irrigation system, maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure and building
overall sustainability. The WUA Support Group is already undertaking a detailed assessment of
the current needs and concerns of water users in the country which will inform the design of
training and communication activities to be provided under ISEP to strengthen overall WUA
functioning and performance.




                                                18
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1.    Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

77.      The Bank team’s performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Overall
project design was kept simple with a clear emphasis on the imperative of immediate rural
employment generation. The PDO was clearly articulated and the indicators were simple and
easy to measure. For project implementation, the team hired the staff of the PIU that had worked
on Bank-supported irrigation projects in the past who had extensive experience with Bank
procedures and guidelines. Thus from the very start the project had a well-staffed PIU that was
competent to manage and coordinate project activities. This was instrumental in ensuring
successful implementation of project activities which was critical given the emergency nature of
the project. To allow project activities to be launched immediately after effectiveness, all
procurement, including tendering of contracts, was initiated during preparation. The team
ensured that the necessary fiduciary, safeguard, and M&E requirements were also adequately
addressed up front as going forward these were important for maintain a smooth pace of
implementation. It must also be noted that the team received strong support from Bank
management all through project preparation which helped facilitate rapid preparation of the
project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

78.      The Bank team closely supervised project implementation. Implementation support
missions were conducted on average twice a year, which allowed for fairly regular face-to-face
interaction on project issues. Implementation support reporting on technical, fiduciary and
safeguard issues was thorough and progress towards achievement of the key performance
indicators was regularly updated to reflect project status. Next steps and follow up action were
agreed upon in detail with counterparts. These were included in the mission Aide Memoires and
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) and closely tracked.

79.     Throughout the duration of the project, the team maintained a regular and constructive
dialogue with the PIU, government, as well as communities. Its pro-active approach in managing
and resolving issues that arose during implementation helped to keep project activities on track.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

80.     Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The team worked closely with
counterparts all through preparation and supervision of the project. Its pragmatic and flexible
approach to quickly deliver results on the ground contributed to successful project
implementation.




                                                19
5.2.    Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

81.      Overall government performance was satisfactory. It was deeply supportive of the
project, both through preparation and implementation as it recognized the importance of the
project in providing a social safety net to its citizens who were reeling under the effects of the
prevailing economic and fiscal crisis. Counterpart financing was made available on time and in
the agreed amounts which contributed to satisfactory disbursement performance.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

82.      The State Committee for Water Management (SCWM) had overall responsibility for
project implementation. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) housed within the SCWM, was
responsible for project management, coordination and monitoring. It had vast experience with
implementing Bank-financed projects and brought this experience to bear in the implementation
of IREP. It diligently followed Bank requirements as necessary. The PIU’s performance was
highly satisfactory on procurement issues under the project, especially as related to contracts for
civil works. All necessary contracts for canal rehabilitation works were tendered before the
project became effective which enabled immediate implementation of civil works and thereby job
generation. The PIU closely monitored the implementation of contracts along with the
supervision consulting firm and was proactive in addressing issues as they arose. The PIU
worked cooperatively with the WUAs as well. Detailed progress reports were made available to
the Bank in a timely manner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

83.     The Borrower’s overall performance is rated satisfactory as all through preparation and
implementation, it demonstrated a high level of ownership and commitment for the project. It
took timely and effective steps as necessary to address any issues that may have arisen and
worked closely with the intended beneficiaries to ensure that the project’s intended benefits
reached the target beneficiaries.

6.     Lessons Learned

84.      Projects that are simple in design and singularly focused perform well and have a high
likelihood of achieving their objectives. IREP design was guided by the fundamental principle of
rapidly commencing project activities and generating rural employment to the maximum extent
possible to address the growing threat of poverty from the prevailing economic and fiscal crisis.
The project comprised two straight-forward, well targeted components that lent themselves to
swift and efficient implementation. Also, the benefits of simple projects are relatively easy to
disseminate among the local populations which stimulates a high degree of buy-in and support.

85.     Addressing priority needs of local populations is critical for the successful
implementation of rural development projects. By targeting the most pressing needs of the local
communities, IREP generated much support and good will among the local populations which
ensured its success right from the start. In this context, placing local people at the center of the
whole implementation process has the added benefit of encouraging and enhancing beneficiary


                                                 20
participation in decision making in rural development assistance efforts. This results in better
designed projects that have a higher likelihood of implementation success.

86.      Irrigation Projects can provide an important safety net for rural populations, especially
during times of economic downturn. The project demonstrated that irrigation projects can serve
as a significant source of public employment. Irrigation projects do not necessarily need to be
designed as capital-intensive efforts. A labor-intensive design is in fact preferable under certain
circumstances, such as times of economic downturn, when rural populations are facing rising
unemployment and loss of incomes.

87.      Projects prepared rapidly must have in-built flexibility to respond to emerging needs and
situations. Projects prepared on a fast track basis often have limited time for detailed preparatory
work and adequate due diligence. This opens the door to encountering issues during project
implementation that the team might not have faced had there been sufficient time for thorough
preparatory work. It is therefore critical that a strong element of flexibility is built into project
design so that project activities can be adjusted and issues that may arise during implementation
can be addressed rapidly and appropriately.

88.      Establishing and strengthening WUAs is a long-term undertaking. While organized user
groups are essential for solving irrigation management problems and sustaining the physical
infrastructure of the system, there is no ‘blue-print,’ one-size fits all institutional model for setting
up a WUA. Given the complex and diverse management problems of irrigation systems,
establishing and strengthening WUAs is a time intensive effort that requires several years of
sustained support by the government.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower has indicated that it has no comments on the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not Applicable




                                                   21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

7.1.1    (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
           Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                         millions)
Rehabilitation of Primary Canals          48.98              50.09                 102.26
Rehabilitation of On-farm
                                           4.02               3.93                  97.76
Irrigation Network
Project Management and
                                           4.93               3.74                  75.86
Institutional Activities

            Total Baseline Cost              57.93              57.76               99.70

Physical and Price Contingencies              0.00               0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs             57.93              57.76               99.70
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00               0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.75               0.75               0.00
     Total Financing Required                58.68              58.51               99.71


7.1.2   (b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                9.73       10.00       102.77
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        48.00           47.99         99.97
and Development
Beneficiaries                                            0.20           0.24          120.00




                                               22
          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

          Component 1: Rehabilitation of Primary Canals in Selected Schemes.

          1.       This component financed rehabilitation of 89.5 km of primary canals (main and branch
          canals) in six marzes. The component included: (i) civil works for the primary canal
          rehabilitation; and (ii) consultancy services for supervision of rehabilitation works. The costs of
          rehabilitation of primary canals mainly included concrete lining of the canal sections. Canal
          lining works were carried out on the existing alignment and lined sections so that there was no
          land acquisition. The works paid particular attention to concrete quality and construction quality
          control so as to ensure that the final linings were of appropriate quality. The thickness of lined
          concrete on top of existing concrete lining (after roughening) was a minimum 12 cm. In case of
          new lined sections, a 10 cm blind concrete was underlain.

          2.       An international Consulting Firm for Supervision and Quality Control (CFSQC) of
          works was hired for the day-to-day supervision of construction works and monitoring of its
          quality. The CFSQC monitored compliance with the design and quality of the work as necessary.
          Technical auditing of the finished sections of the canals in the schemes was performed by the
          consultants (jointly with the Armenian Design Institute for Water Works) to independently
          review the seepage conditions in the rehabilitated sections.

                         Table 1. Rehabilitation of Primary Canals under the Original Project


                                                              Implemented in total          Per Communities
            Contract                   Marz        WUA                                                    Canal
                                                                             Canal
                                                           Thousand USD                 Communities       length
                                                                           length (m)
                                                                                                            (m)
Rehabilitation of Talin main canal
DM 0+10 DM 70+28                                            2,672.708460      4,887

Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                          Aragatsavan
main canal DM 0+10 DM 30+00          Aragatsotn    Talin    1281.594010       2,177                       2,177
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                          Aragatsavan
main canal DM 30+00 DM                                      1391.114450       2,710                       2,710
70+28
Rehabilitation of Talin main canal
DM 70+28 DM 160+00                                          2,433.799260      4,685
Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                             Arteni
main canal DM 70+28 DM                                      1252.453260       2,588                       2,588
115+36                               Aragatsotn    Talin
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                             Arteni
main canal DM 115+36 DM                                     1181.346000       2,097                       2,097
160+00
Rehabilitation of Talin main canal
DM 160+00 DM 258+00                                         2,994.852350      5,323
Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                             Arteni
main canal DM 160+00 DM              Aragatsotn    Talin    1394.770010       2,157                       2,157
181+73
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                             Shenik
main canal DM 181+73 DM               Armavir     Shenik    1600.082340       3,166                       3,166
258+00




                                                             23
Rehabilitation of Talin main canal
DM 258+00 DM 455+13                                          3,471.033260   11,062
Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                          Shenik
main canal DM 258+00 DM                                      1816.607770    4,439                    4,439
330+00                                Armavir      Shenik
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Talin                                                          Vanand
main canal DM 330+00 DM                                      1654.425490    6,623                    6,623
455+13
Rehabilitation of left branch of
Talin main canal DM 0+00 DM                                  3,169.082080   16,250
170+00
                                                  Talin
Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of left                                                         Aragatsavan
branch of Talin main canal DM
                                     Aragatsotn              1460.466110    4,931                    4,931
0+00 DM 54+00
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of left                                                       Aragatsavan     2,557
branch of Talin main canal DM                                                        Arteni
                                                             1708.615970    11,319                   5,943
54+00 DM 170+00
                                                                                     Lusakn          2,819
Rehabilitation of left branch of
Talin main canal DM 170+00 DM
247+27 and right branch of Talin                             3,279.738970   15,583
main canal DM 0+00 DM 102+46

Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of left                                                       Lusakn
branch of Talin main canal DM        Aragatsotn     Talin    1655.246490    7,451                    7,451
170+00 DM 247+27
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of right                                                      Qarakert        5,038
branch of Talin main canal DM         Armavir     Qarakert   1624.492480    8,132    Dalarik
0+00 DM 102+46                                                                                       3,094
7Rehabilitation of Armavir main
canal DM 48+13 DM 87+57                                      2,831.942210   3,833

Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Armavir                                                    Berqashat
main canal DM 48+13 DM                Armavir      Araks     1420.239050    2,076                    2,076
70+00
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Armavir                                                    Nor Kesaria
main canal DM 70+00 DM                                       1411.703160    1,757                    1,757
87+57
Rehabilitation of Armavir main
canal DM 87+57 DM 399+00                                     2,911.624630   5,639

Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Armavir                                                      Nor Kesaria   1,243
main canal DM 87+57 DM                Armavir      Araks     1226.58429     2,316       Hushakert
111+28                                                                                               1,073
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Armavir                                                       Hushakert    878
main canal DM 111+28 DM                                      1685.04034     3,323       Noravan
399+00                                                                                               2,445
Rehabilitation of Armavir main
canal DM 399+00 DM 444+00                                    2,326.043650   4,137

Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of Armavir                                                    Noravan
main canal DM 399+00 DM                                      1264.050270    2281                     2281
425+00                                Armavir     Armavir
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of Armavir                                                    Noravan
main canal DM 425+00 DM
                                                             1061.993380    1856
444+00                                                                                                 1292
                                                                                     Armavir            564



                                                             24
Rehabilitation of Mrgashat canal
DM 17+15 DM 84+91 and
diverting canal of Metsamor                                        2,371.337980       11,181
pump station DM 0+00 DM
130+15
Lot 1 - Rehabilitation of                                                                           Alashkert                204
Mrgashat canal DM 17+15 DM                                                                          Armavir,
84+91                                              Merdzna                                          Haykavan
                                                                    794.21488          5,204                                 2047
                                                    pnya
                                                                                                   Nor Artagers              2325
                                       Armavir                                                       Janfida                  628
Lot 2 - Rehabilitation of diverting
canal of Metsamor pump station
DM 0+00 DM 130+15                                  Armavir
                                                                    1577.1231          5,977        Aknalich                 4474
                                                                                                    Mayisyan                 1101
                                                                                                    Mrgashat                  402

Total 10 contracts
                                                              28,462.162850           82,580



                                Table 2. Rehabilitation of Additional 7 km of Earthen Canal

                                                                    Implemented, in total          Per Communities
                    Contract              Marz       WUA                              Canal                         Canal
                                                               Thousand USD           length    Communities         length
                                                                                        (m)                           (m)
           Rehabilitation of Armavir
           main canal DM 120+06                                                                    Hushakert
           DM152+73                                  Araks          1970.60531         3247                            416
                                                                                                  Nor Amasia          2078
                                         Armavir                                                    Araks              753
           Rehabilitation of Armavir
           main canal DM 152+73                                                                      Araks           2,345
           DM 189+82                                Armavir         2052.24628         3,686
                                                                                                    Lenughi          1,341
           Sub-total under two
                                                                      4,022.851590     6,933
           contracts


           Total under all 11
                                                                   32,485.014440      89,513
           contracts



                        Table 3. Rehabilitation of Primary Canals under Additional Financing


      Contract/Canal                             Total length of        Rehabilitation of      Amount
                                Marz name
          name                                     canal(m)               canals (m)           (million           Community
                                                                                                USD)




                                                                   25
IREP/AF/NCB/CW-
11/001 Rehabilitation of
Mkchyan Canal
                                        32,628.0        6,020.0           0.922
DM35+20-DM74+43
and Dvin Canal
DM7+69-DM38+08
                             Ararat                               1,007     0.131    Byuravan
Mkchyan Canal                               17,360.0
                                                                  1,003     0.237    Aygestan

Dvin Canal                                  15,268.0              4,010     0.554     Getazat

                                                                  8,145     2.890
Rehabilitation of Arzni
   Shamiram canal                                                 1,895      0.78    Mrgashen
                            Kotayk          35,095.0
DM105+35-DM281+50
                                                                  5,750      1.94     Yegvard
   (1st stage canal)
                                                                  500        0.17   Nor Yerznka

                                                                  4,931     2.020
Rehabilitation of Arzni-
   Shamiram Canal                                                 440       0.175   Ghazaravan
                           Aragatsotn       44,791.0
    DM179+60 -
DM447+91 (2nd stage)                                              3,746     1.495      Kosh

                                                                  745       0.350      Agtsk

                                                              9,876.0       2.949
                                                                                        -
                                                              1,119.0       0.308     Yegvard
Rehabilitation of Arzni
   Canal Branch             Kotayk          15,000.0          1,195.0       0.328     Zovuni
DM27+57- DM124+00
                                                              5,662.0       1.791    Proshyan

                                                              1,900.0       0.523     Kassakh
Rehabilitation of Right
Branch of Kassakh
Canal DM9+14 -
DM41+42 and Left                            11,900.0          5,995.0       1.110
Branch of Kassakh
Canal DM34+09 -
DM65+00                    Aragatsotn
Rehabilitation of right    and Kotayk       5,400.0               925.0     0.178   Sagmosavan
branch of Kassakh
canal                                                         2,338.0       0.452   Artashavan

Rehabilitation of left                                        1,764.0       0.295     Karbi
branch of Kassakh                           6,500.0
canal                                                             968.0      0.19    Yegvard
IREP/AF/NCB/CW-
11/006 Rehabilitation of
Lower Hrazdan Canals
DM112+00-DM160+40
(1st stage) and                             58,988.0          6,312.0       2.630
DM24+22-DM86+60
(2nd stage) and Shah-
Aru Canal DM30+74-
DM47+86




                                                       26
Rehabilitation of Lower
Hrazdan Canals (1st
                                           28,300.0             1,212             0.706           Aygek
stage) DM112+00-
DM160+40
Rehabilitation of Lower
                                                                2,995             1.223           Aragats
Hrazdan canal (2nd         Armavir
                                           21,900.0
stage) DM24+22-
                                                                 393              0.147         Agavnatun
DM86+60
Rehabilitation of Shah-
Aru canal DM30+74-                          8,788.0             1,712             0.555          Mrgashat
DM47+86
IREP/AF/NCB/CW-
11/007 Rehabilitation of
Shirak Main Canal
DM13+40 - DM24+04;
Distributor 26 Canal                       87,460.0            9,015.0            1.783
DM91+64 - DM169+84
and Nalband Canal
DM141+22 -
DM183+73
                                                                150.0             0.061           Kamo
  Shirak Main Canal                        18,620.0
                                                               1,064.0            0.402           Hatsik
                            Shirak
Distributor 26 Canal                       25,840.0            3,550.0            0.601           Arevik

                                                               1,600.0            0.273            Parni
Nalband Canal                Lori          43,000.0            2,373.0            0.397         Lusaghbyur
                                                                278.0             0.048          Saralanj
IREP/AF/NCB/CW-
11/008 Rehabilitation of
Right Branch of Talin
Main Canal
                                           15,575.0            7,738.0            1.057              -
DM102+46-DM165+07
and Myasnikyan "Mayr
Aru" Canal DM0+00-
DM31+86
Right Branch of Talin                                           1,187             0.214          Dalarik
                                           10,300.0
Main Canal                                                      3,425             0.428         Bagramyan
                           Armavir
Myasnikyan "Mayr
                                            5,275.0            3,126.0            0.415         Myasnikyan
Aru"

Total                                      301,437.0            58,032          15.36105


        Component 2: Rehabilitation of On-farm irrigation network.

        3.       This component, introduced under the Additional Financing, financed the rehabilitation
        of 50 km of tertiary canals. Nineteen communities grouped in eight Water Users’ Associations of
        six irrigation schemes benefited from project interventions. These activities were co-financed 15
        percent by farmers. Activities under this component included: (i) civil works for tertiary canal
        rehabilitation (ii) consultancy services for supervision of rehabilitation works.




                                                       27
                      Table 4. Rehabilitation of On-farm Canal Network


                                                                         Length of
                              Irrigation               Total length    rehabilitated   Cost (M
Communities      Marz                       WUA
                               System                  of canals (m)     stretches      USD)
                                                                            (m)

                                                           500             370
Bagramyan
                                                                                        0.035
                                                           8000            2972
Myasnikyan
                                                                                        0.279
                                           Qarakert
                                                           5000            4414
Dalarik
                                                                                        0.258
                                                           9200            1124
Qarakert
                                                                                        0.197
                            Talin system
                                                           700             770
Bagaran
                                                                                        0.048
                                                           6800            5935
Vanand                                      Shenik
                                                                                        0.400
                Armavir                                    3200            610
Yervandashat
                                                                                        0.063
                                                           4000            940
Lernagog                                     Talin
                                                                                        0.115
                                                           5300            2000
Arevadasht
                                                                                        0.179
                            Armavir                        2500            2016
Hatsik                                     Armavir
                            system                                                      0.113
                                                           1700            806
Noravan
                                                                                        0.048
                            Lower                          7500            5700
Agavnatun                                    Khoy                                       0.368
                            Hrazdan

Contract IREP/AF/NCB/CW-11/009                            54400           27657           2.102

                            Nalband                        2400            1630
Jrashen        Lori                          Getik
                            system                                                      0.110
Upper                                                     14400            4256
Getashen                                                                                0.363
                                                          10800            6941
Martuni
                                                                                        0.518
                                                           7600            3399
Dzoragyug      Gegarkunik   Sevan system    Martuni
                                                                                        0.232
                                                           5300            4122
Asthadzor
                                                                                        0.205
                                                           4500            1680
Vagashen
                                                                                        0.111
                                                           2800            1600
Megrashen        Shirak         Shirak      Shirak
                                                                                        0.081

Contract IREP/AF/NCB/CW-11/010                            47800           23628           1.619


                                                         102200           51285           3.721
Total



                                            28
Component 3: Project Management and Institutional Activities

4.       This Component financed two sub-components, namely: (i) Project management and
audits; and (ii) Institutional strengthening.

Project Management and Audits

5.      Under the first sub-component, the project financed project management, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) activities as well as annual financial audits of the Project.

6.     Financial audits for 2009 and 2010 were also undertaken for the three Water Supply
Agencies (WSAs): Akhuryan-Araks, Sevan Hrazdan and Debed-Aghstev

7.       Financial audits for all WUAs for the years 2009 and 2010 were also undertaken. These
audits served as a complementary institutional strengthening activity (discussed below).

Institutional Strengthening

8.      Outputs under this component included:

(a) Operational support for the WUAs’ Support Group. The WUAs’ Support Group was
established under IDP financing within PIU in 2003 with the main aim of supporting
establishment and training of WUAs. It worked to inform rural communities about the concept of
WUA’s, facilitated formation of initiative groups, provided technical expertise to these initiative
groups, developed complete databases for all WUAs, developed training material and
implemented WUAs’ training modules. Under the IREP, the WUAs’ Support Group was
successfully institutionalized within the State Committee for Water Management (SCWM).

(b) Institutional Strengthening.
(i) Two studies were completed:
       Arrangements for Providing State Assistance Funds to Water Users Associations that
         reviewed the current system of subsidies to WUAs and analyzed options for alternative
         funding arrangements by drawing on the experiences of other countries and their
         applicability to the Armenian situation; and
       Institutional Strengthening Study that analyzed the financial and economic performance
         of each WUA over the past three years that would feed into the development of
         preparation of business plans for each WUA for the period 2011-2016.
(ii) The aforementioned business plans were developed for all operating WUAs
(iii) GIS-based software was installed in all WUAs and made operational. During project
implementation it was agreed to transfer this activity to the MCC so while project resources were
not used for this activity, it was nevertheless successfully completed and contributed to the
achievement of IREP objectives.



                                                29
(c) Feasibility study for the Meghri Gravity Scheme. The government was interested in financing
a gravity scheme in the Meghri region of the country and a preliminary study had been
undertaken through the MCC Program. The project provided technical assistance to verify the
environmental, economic, and technical feasibility of the gravity scheme; support for the
construction of such a scheme has been included under ISEP.




                                              30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

I.      Summary
1.       Rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in Armavir and Talin irrigation canals was
expected to have the following benefits: (i) reduced water losses; (ii) rain fed areas returning to
irrigation as more water reaches more farm land; and (iii) increased productivity as a result of
improved availability of water (in quantity and opportunity). Reduced water losses would also
reduce cost of irrigation as less water needs to be pumped, and an increase in the availability of
water in the tail end of the irrigation systems, would introduce more equity among farmers. The
Additional Financing included new and scaled-up activities allowing the inclusion of areas other
than the two originally foreseen in Armavir and Talin canal areas. This Annex estimates: (i) the
financial impact on farmers' income, and (ii) the economic impact on the overall economy.
Detailed crop and farm models representing typical farming situations for benefited areas
showing the “with” and “without project” scenarios were developed using FARMOD software.
2.       The financial and economic ex ante analysis for the IREP based its assessment only on
quantified benefits from the incremental lands to be returned to irrigation after water losses would
be reduced and water availability restored through the rehabilitation works. Values per ha were
based on the calculation of the five crop budgets of the most frequent cultivated crops in the
project areas, previously prepared under the Millennium Challenge Account Armenia Program in
2008. The estimated Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal was 19.5 percent, and the Net
Present Value (NPV) was US$48.5 million using a discount rate of 12 percent.
3.       This ICR ex post analysis estimated the following benefits: (i) the incremental production
from the lands where irrigation water supply was restored; (ii) the increased yields on those
irrigated areas where water provision was improved (mainly on the tail-end sections) and (iii) the
increased production value due to changes in cropping patterns on the irrigated lands, as water
became more reliable and failure crop risks are being reduced. Energy savings in pumping water
in the improved irrigation schemes although significant were not quantified. Additional benefits
likely to appear after project closing (due to further yield increases and cropping pattern shifts)
were also considered based on actual changes observed after closing of the IDP in rehabilitated
areas, occurring between 2009 and 2012. Estimations were based on the project’s GIS based
M&E system that continued to monitor the IDP rehabilitated areas. Changes in cropping areas in
IDP irrigation systems were taken as proxy estimates of what might also happen in the project
areas. The ICR estimated economic impact shows that the project would be attaining an ERR of
21.2 percent and a NPV of AMD 34.2 billion (US$82.4 million) when using 12 percent as
discount rate.

II.     Methodology and Assumptions

4.       Crop models were prepared for estimating the representative production budgets
involved in the major crop in the irrigated project area. Models included: (i) average crop yields
and quantities of inputs used per cropped ha, both in the pre-project situation (representing
“without the project” scenario) and in the current situation with the rehabilitation works
completed (the “with the project” scenario) as observed in the field; and (ii) the financial budgets
resulting from the physical quantities of production and inputs used, and the market prices
received by farmers for their production or paid for the inputs and services used for the activity.

5.       Land use. Due to the long deferred maintenance of the irrigation systems in Armenia,
most of the structures are not operating well and water rarely reaches the farms at the tail of the
irrigation systems. It is estimated that irrigated area in Armenia has dropped to half the area that



                                                 31
       was under irrigation due to lack of proper O&M. With the rehabilitation of some of the main
       irrigation structures and the participatory irrigation management (PIM) practices introduced by
       the 2009 closed IDP, together with the follow-up strengthening and roll out activities developed
       under the IREP, the irrigation systems in Armenia are saving up to 25 percent of the water that
       was previously lost, allowing to serve again some of the previously irrigated abandoned land.
       6.       Aggregation of Costs and Benefits The agricultural production costs and benefits at the
       project rehabilitated areas (in Armavir canal, Tallin canal and other areas where tertiary canal
       systems were rehabilitated), were aggregated in both scenarios: “with” and “without” project,
       following the cropping pattern as it really happened with the changing importance of each
       production activity during implementation. The analysis was done for a 20 year period assuming
       that the cropping pattern would continue to evolve until 2016 - when it would stabilize – in a
       similar tendency as the one shown by the area rehabilitated under the preceding IDP. As
       conservative assumption, it was assumed that no further significant changes in yields, planted
       areas and/or cropping patterns would occur after 2016 in which the new cropping pattern was
       assumed to stabilize. The aggregation of the agricultural incremental production and related farm
       costs, provide an overall estimate of the project net benefits which were compared with the IREP
       overall investment costs (US$63.3 million in five years) for estimating the impact indicators.
       III.    Financial and Economic Results.
       7.      Fourteen crop models and 2 farm models were constructed to estimate the financial
       impact of the project at the beneficiaries’ livelihood level. Models represent average crop
       budgets for the dominant crops in the project areas showing the “with” and “without” project
       financial results per ha (details in Tables 1 - 14 in the project files). Budgets were based on
       conservative assumptions regarding yield increases and costs involved as can be seen in the
       following Table 1 where the main parameters and results indicators for the most important seven
       crops in the rehabilitated Armavir canal command area are presented.
         Table 1. Crop Main Indicators for Expected Results in Armavir Canal (000’ drams/ha)

Crop                              Average Yields      Gross Revenue      Input & Labor Costs      Net Income
                                      (kg/ha)
                               without       with   Without     with     without     with      without    with
Grains (Wheat)                  3,500       3,850    525.7      577.5     403.8      409.3      121.2     168.2
Fodder Crops (Alfalfa)         10,000      11,000    400.0      440.0     341.3      353.3       58.7      86.7
Vegetables (Tomato)            35,000      40,000   1,750.0    2,000.0   1,392.8    1,478.8     357.3     521.2
Existing Orchards (Apricots)    3,500       4,000    630.0      720.0     366.0      371.5      264.0     348.5
New Orchards (Apricots)           0         9,000      0       1,620.0      0        747.4        0       872.6
Existing Grapes                 5,000       5,500    900.0      990.0     452.5      460.2      447.5     529.8
New Grapes                        O        16,000      0       2,880.0      0       1,072.9       0      1,807.1


       8.       Financial Results of the project at the farm level were analyzed considering average
       cropping patterns in both scenarios. This analysis intended to measure the average impact that the
       project is having in the livelihood of beneficiaries. According to the GIS based M&E project data,
       there are still limited changes in cropping patterns for the typical farm on the project areas.
       However these changes were assumed to continue evolving as occurred during the operational
       phase of the IDP. The cropping pattern for the Armavir canal typical farm of 1.3 ha is shown in
       Table 2 (figures in ha):




                                                          32
         Table 2 Average Cropping Pattern of a typical Farm in Armavir Canal Area
              In Hectars per farm                            Without           With Project
                                                             Project
         Cropping Pattern                                    1 to 15    1     2     3      4    5    6 - 15
             Wheat (Armavir Canal Area)                          0.21 0.21 0.21 0.17 0.12        0.1    0.08
             Alfalfa (Armavir Canal Area)                        0.13 0.13 0.13 0.115       0.1 0.09    0.09
             Tomato (Armavir Canal Area)                        0.171 0.171 0.171 0.171 0.171 0.171 0.171
             Cabbage (Talin Canal Area)                          0.17 0.17 0.17 0.23 0.28 0.42          0.42
             Grapes Existing Orchards (Armavir Canal Area)       0.11 0.11 0.11 0.11 0.11 0.11          0.11
             Apricots Existing Orchards (Armavir Canal Area)       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2  0.2     0.2
             Grapes - New Orchards (Armavir Canal Area)              -     -     - 0.01 0.04 0.09       0.17
             Apricots New (Armavir Canal Area)                       -     -     - 0.01 0.02 0.025 0.025
             Rainfed Pastures                                   0.309 0.309 0.309 0.284 0.259 0.094 0.034
         Total Area                                                1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3    1.3  1.3     1.3

9.     This process towards higher value crops will probably continue beyond 2016 but is kept
unchanged from that year onwards as a conservative approach for this assessment. Table 3 and 4
show the expected results on typical farms located on the Armavir and Talin canal project areas.

Table 3 Armavir Canal Typical Farm

FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)                   Without
(In dram '000)                                  Project                             With Project
                                                1 to 15   1      2     3     4     5     6      7    8     11 to 15
 Main Production
   Grains                                           110   110     94    69    58    46    46    46    46          46
   Vegetables                                       452   452    541   628   770   770   770   770   770         770
   Fruits                                           225   225    240   253   253   264   300   375   504         783
   Fodder                                            52    52     48    44    40    40    40    40    40          40
 Sub-total Main Production                          840   840    923   994 1,121 1,120 1,156 1,232 1,360       1,639
 Production Cost
      Agricultural Imputs                             -      -    24    70   117   186    12     4     3           -
      Services                                        -      -     5    15    31    52    41    25     -           -
      Water                                           -      -     1     5     9    16    14    11     7           -
   Sub-total Investm ent Costs                        -      -    31    95   168   270    83    52    17           -
      Agricultural Imputs                           109    109   109   107   114   112   113   115   117         120
      Services                                      102    102   102    99   108   109   118   134   157         159
      Water                                          61     61    64    65    70    69    70    73    77          84
   Sub-total Operating Costs                        298    298   303   303   331   330   344   367   401         421
 Sub-Total Production Cost                          298    298   335   398   499   601   427   419   418         421
   OUTFLOWS                                         298    298   335   398   499   601   427   419   418         421
 Cash Flow Before Financing                         542    542   589   596   622   519   729   813   942       1,218
 Net Financing                                        -    197   -19   -30   -31    52     2     0    -0           -
 Cash Flow After Financing                          542    739   570   566   591   571   732   813   942       1,218
 Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                        -   -209     -     -     -     -     -     -     -           -
 Farm Fam ily Benefits After Financing              542    531   570   566   591   571   732   813   942       1,218

10.   IREP benefited farmers’ annual net incomes are estimated to grow from an average of
AMD 542,000 to AMD 1.2 million in the Armavir canal area (US$ 1,320 to US$ 2,970); and
from AMD 1.45 million to AMD 2.5 million (Table 4) in the Talin canal area (US$3.536 to
US$6,260).




                                                    33
 Table 4 Talin Canal Typical Farm (2.5 ha) FM
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATED)             Without
(In dram '000)                            Project                                              With Project
                                          1 to 15       1          2       3       4          5     6      7     8   12 to 15
 Main Production
   Grains                                         147   147   121    92    69    58    58    58    58                     58
   Vegetables                                     180   180   173   143   133   122   122   122   122                    122
   Other Crops                                  1,075 1,075 1,219 1,372 1,568 1,764 1,764 1,764 1,764                  1,764
   Fruits                                         465   465   472   506   540   554   598   686   818                  1,278
   Fodder                                         304   304   302   299   282   264   264   264   264                    264
 Sub-total Main Production                      2,172 2,172 2,288 2,412 2,592 2,763 2,806 2,894 3,027                  3,486
 Production Cost
      Agricultural Imputs                           -     -    57    63    62    65    56     8     4                      -
      Services                                      -     -    15    28    38    42    34    21    11                      -
      Water                                         -     -     5     9    13    17    14     9     6                      -
   Sub-total Investm ent Costs                      -     -    82   110   127   142   118    48    26                      -
      Agricultural Imputs                          92    92    86    79    77    78    83    88    92                     97
      Services                                    215   215   206   195   191   196   208   222   234                    250
      Water                                       124   124   124   124   121   117   121   125   128                    133
   Sub-total Operating Costs                      722   722   727   729   763   809   835   863   887                    918
 Sub-Total Production Cost                        722   722   809   839   890   951   954   911   912                    918
   OUTFLOWS                                       722   722   809   839   890   951   954   911   912                    918
 Cash Flow Before Financing                     1,450 1,450 1,479 1,574 1,702 1,812 1,852 1,982 2,114                  2,568
 Net Financing                                      -   479    -9   -15   -18    -1    13    -0    -1                      -
 Cash Flow After Financing                      1,450 1,929 1,470 1,558 1,684 1,811 1,865 1,982 2,114                  2,568
 Sub-Total Change in Net Worth                      - -505      -     -     -     -     -     -     -                      -
 Farm Fam ily Benefits After Financing          1,450 1,423 1,470 1,558 1,684 1,811 1,865 1,982 2,114                  2,568

11.     The increase in beneficiaries’ income is resulting from a combination of vertical and
horizontal expansion of their small farms, due to water being made available in a timely manner
allowing for more frequent watering of crops, which improves productivity and also induces
farmers to invest in higher value crops (HVCs) as risks of water shortage is reduced. However,
changes are expected to be slow because most farmers have limited access to technical assistance
and credit. Table 5 shows that the area under irrigation in the Talin and Armavir canal command
area increased from 32,761 ha to 33,535 ha. Wheat and alfalfa reduced their area from 41 to 30
percent between 2008 and 2012, while the HVCs increased their share in the total irrigated area
from 59 to 70 percent, confirming a clear tendency. The bulk of irrigated area increase is likely to
be incorporated in the following years as rehabilitation works have just being finished.
Table 5 Cropping Pattern in the Armavir and Talin areas (including Additional Financing)
                                                                          including by crops
                   CONTRACTUAL
          YEAR
                      AREA                           Vegetables
                                    Winter wheat                       Vineyards       A lfalfa       Orchards       Others
                                                     and go urds
                         %                %                 %             %               %               %            %
          2012         100.0             10.8          12.9             12.5           19.2             23.1         21.6
          2011         100.0             15.1          11.2             12.1           18.7             22.4         20.4
          2010         100.0             18.1          11.4             11.1           18.9             21.0         19.5
          2009         100.0             19.3          12.2             10.4           20.1             19.7         18.3
          2008         100.0             18.3          14.3             10.7           22.9             19.7         14.0


                                                                          including by crops
                   CONTRACTUAL
          YEAR
                      AREA                           Vegetables
                                    Winter wheat                       Vineyards       A lfalfa       Orchards       Others
                                                     and go urds
                        [ha]             [ha]           [ha]             [ha]           [ha]             [ha]         [ha]
                                          1                 2              3              4               5            6
          2012         33535             3612          4327             4179           6437            7730          7250
          2011         33690             5101          3788             4069           6294            7563          6875
          2010         33296             6036          3781             3704           6303            6977          6495
          2009         33416             6448          4090             3482           6721            6576          6099
          2008         32761             6005          4686             3502           7512            6469          4587


12.      Similar behavior is expected in the rehabilitated tertiary canal command areas where
irrigated areas still remains almost the same but the areas under wheat and alfalfa already show an


                                                       34
incipient tendency towards reductions in their share in the cropping pattern. As in IDP areas,
vineyards and orchards are also beginning to increase their share in response to the improved
access and reliability to water for irrigation.
13.      Economic Results Indicators of the IREP (including the Additional Financing) provide
a good estimate of the project’s impact at the country’s economy level. Results were estimated
from the aggregate crop patterns evolution and the crop’s financial budgets, using a few
adjustments to the existing market prices. Most of these values express adequately their shadow
(or economic) values given that Armenia presents a fairly open economy to the international
markets and trade. Adjustments were introduced only for rural labor and irrigation water costs.
Unskilled labor was adjusted with a 0.7 conversion factor (CF) given the relatively high level of
underemployment in rural areas in Armenia. Additionally, the market (or financial) cost of water
(AMD 11 per cubic meter) constitutes a value fixed administratively by the GOA and as such was
adjusted with a CF of 1.7. The estimation of the economic cost involved in delivering water to the
irrigation systems in Armenia was estimated at AMD 18.7 per cubic meter. The difference
between these two levels is covered by subsidies directly delivered to the GOA to the WUAs.
14.     As shown in Table 6 the overall ERR of the IREP was estimated at 21.2%. Using a
discount rate of 12 percent, the project economic NPV is AMD 34.2 billion (US$82.4 million).
Table 6 Project Summary
ECONOMIC BUDGET (AGGREGATED)        Without
(In dram Million)                   Project                                             With Project
                                    1 to 20     1             2        3          4          5          6       10       15       20
 Main Production
   Grains                              6,280    6,280         6,280    6,198      5,975      5,874      6,247    6,682    6,682    6,682
   Vegetables                         21,345   21,345        21,345   21,606     22,180     23,406     25,433   32,082   32,082   32,082
   Other Crops                         6,451    6,451         6,451    6,595      6,964      7,606      8,541   10,584   10,584   10,584
   Fruits                             10,957   10,957        10,957   11,008     11,151     11,373     11,713   16,881   28,605   28,983
   Fodder                              3,686    3,686         3,686    3,673      3,640      3,570      3,473    3,298    3,298    3,298
   Livestock Products                      8        8             8        8          7          6          5        0        -        -
 Sub-total Main Production            48,726   48,726        48,726   49,088     49,917     51,835     55,411   69,526   81,251   81,628
 Production Cost
   Investm ent
      Purchased Inputs
         Agricultural Imputs               -        -             -        128        452    1,013      1,953      975        -        -
         Services                          -        -             -         29        115      285        574      668        -        -
         Water                             -        -             -         15         60      150        307      487        -        -
      Sub-Total Purchased Inputs           -        -             -        183        669    1,550      3,038    2,438        -        -
      Labor
         Labor                             -        -             -         59        190      390        689      495        -        -
   Sub-total Investm ent Costs             -        -             -        241        859    1,941      3,728    2,933        -        -
   Operating
      Purchased Inputs
         Agricultural Imputs           5,938    5,938         5,938    5,931      5,907      5,947      6,137    6,867    7,035    7,035
         Services                      5,581    5,581         5,581    5,570      5,536      5,592      5,870    7,368    8,087    8,090
         Water                         5,526    5,526         5,526    5,541      5,569      5,664      5,893    6,851    7,312    7,312
      Sub-Total Purchased Inputs      19,738   19,738        19,738   19,765     19,807     20,152     21,098   25,150   26,806   26,810
      Labor
         Labor                        10,242   10,242        10,242   10,286     10,359     10,581     11,062   13,457   14,848   14,876
   Sub-total Operating Costs          29,980   29,980        29,980   30,051     30,166     30,733     32,161   38,607   41,655   41,686
 Sub-Total Production Cost            29,980   29,980        29,980   30,292     31,025     32,674     35,888   41,540   41,655   41,686
 Other Costs
   Project Investments                     -    1,282        11,131    2,591      9,190        971        310      310      310      310
   OUTFLOWS                           29,980   31,262        41,111   32,883     40,215     33,645     36,198   41,850   41,965   41,996
 Cash Flow                            18,747   17,465         7,616   16,205      9,702     18,190     19,213   27,676   39,286   39,632
_________________________________
IRR = 21.2%, NPV = 34,195.52



15.         The analysis shows that the results are different for each of the three project areas, and
in all areas the economic NPV is positive: (i) in the Armavir canal command area the ERR is 22
percent; (ii) in the Talin canal command area the ERR is 12.9 percent; and (iii) in the other areas



                                                        35
where tertiary canals were rehabilitated the ERR is 65.4 percent. The main reason making these
different results is the amount invested per benefitted area: in Talin the cost was almost three
times the amount invested per ha in Armavir, while in the other areas where tertiary canals were
improved the investment cost per ha was only about one fourth of the cost in Armavir.
16.      Results achieved from the Talin irrigation investments might seem to be marginal.
However, if other non-quantified benefits were to be added to the assessment, the ERR would be
improve significantly. The most important direct non-quantified benefit is the reduction in
electricity consumption by the WUAs and Water Supply Agencies enabled by the project.
Electricity consumption for pumping irrigation water in Armenian systems was reduced from
235,700 KWH on average per year for 2004 – 2006, to 125,100 KWH per year for 2010 – 2012.
The reduced consumption was due to the infrastructure improvements introduced by the IDP and
the IREP reducing the electricity used per cubic meter of water delivered to farmers from 0.39
KWH to 0.29 KWH. Therefore, the economic price of water is being reduced significantly as
losses decreased and as the pumping proportion is reduced in favor of gravity water. The cost
reductions not only improve profitability of irrigation in the systems but also, create more
competitive conditions for further investments and expansion of the irrigation. These benefits
have not been taken into account for the ERR and NPV estimations because they are difficult to
quantify. Since pumping costs are still a significant part of the economic cost of water (more than
30 percent in spite of its recent reduction), there is still a significant margin for a continued
decrease in the average economic cost of providing water for the irrigation systems which can
contribute further to the development of the sector.

17.     Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in
availability and water use efficiencies, together with the consolidation and continuous
improvement of the adopted PIM, enhances the competitiveness of the irrigated agriculture in
Armenia. The dynamic and professional attitude shown by WUAs improving the O&M of the
systems is having a significant effect on the quality of the water service delivery and on farmers’
incomes. The persistent tendency of the rehabilitated systems towards changing cropping patterns
towards HVCs is the best evidence that the IREP improvements are to be sustainable.

18.      Sensitivity analysis of the expected results shows that the project impact is solid even if
adverse factors affect the irrigated agricultural production business in Armenia. If farm gate
prices of all main agricultural products considered in the assessment would drop by 20 percent,
the ERR would then still be 16.2 percent. If production costs for all crops considered would
increase by 20 percent, the ERR would become 18.4 percent. Finally, if both adverse events
would occur jointly (farm gate prices dropping by 20 percent and costs of production increasing
by 20 percent), then the resulting ERR of the project would than drop to 12.9 percent. These
results show that the IREP would have a positive result even in the most adverse unlikely
situation.




                                                 36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members


                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
                           Senior Rural Development
Giuseppe Fantozzi                                            ECSAR Team Leader
                           Specialist
Arusyak Alaverdyan         Operations Officer                ECSAR    Operations
Daniel Gerber              Operations Analyst                ECSAR    Operations
Darejan Kapanadze          Senior Environmental Specialist   ECSEN    Environment
Martin Henry Lenihan       Social Development Specialist     LCSSO    Social
                                                                      Financial
Arman Vatyan               Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSO3
                                                                      Management
                                                                      Financial
Garik Sregeyan             Consultant                        ECSO3
                                                                      Management
Yingwei Wu                 Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT    Procurement
Anarkan Akerova            Counsel                           LEGLE    Legal
Ohn Myint                  Consultant                                 Irrigation Engineer
Anna O’Donnell             Consultant                                 Editor

Supervision/ICR
Arusyak Alaverdyan         Operations Officer                ECSAR Team Leader
                           Senior Rural Development
Giuseppe Fantozzi                                             AES     Technical
                           Specialist
Alexander Astvatsatryan    Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSO2    Procurement
Armine Aydinyan            Consultant                        ECSO2    Procurement
Daniel P. Gerber           Rural Development Specialist      ECSAR    Operations
Darejan Kapanadze          Senior Environmental Specialist   ECSEN    Environment
Ohn Myint                  Consultant                        SASDA    Engineer
Robert Rout                Consultant                         FAO     Engineer
Giovanni Munoz             Consultant                         FAO     Engineer
                                                                      Financial
Arman Vatyan               Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSO3
                                                                      Management
                                                                      Financial
Garik Sergeyan             Consultant                        ECSO3
                                                                      Management
Yingwei Wu                 Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT    Procurement
Meeta Sehgal               Rural Development Specialist      ECSAR    Lead ICR Author




                                           37
   (b) Staff Time and Cost


                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks             USD
Lending

                             Total:            35.79             144,387.65
Supervision/ICR

                             Total:         121.18               372,953.11




                                          38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

1.         Introduction

1.       Agriculture in Armenia remains an important sector representing around a fifth of GDP and
employing some of two fifth of the country’s active population. About 36 percent of Armenia’s
population lives in rural areas, and rural poverty, at 36 percent, remains higher on average than in urban
areas. In rural areas, agriculture remains the main occupation, also for rural poor. More than 80% of the
agricultural Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is produced on irrigated areas3. Should the irrigation
infrastructure deteriorate further, agricultural production in Armenia would decrease significantly,
considerably affecting rural employment. Thus, irrigated agriculture is essential for maintaining rural
employment and economic growth in Armenia.

2.       In 2006 the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) started to support the irrigation sector in
Armenia. MCC signed a USD 235 million agreement with the Government of Armenia, including a USD
109 mln. Irrigation Component. In spite of these resources, and recognizing that much has been achieved,
the needs for irrigation rehabilitation investments in Armenia remain important. Consequently, the World
Bank’s support to rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage system is very meaningful for the Government
of Armenia. In addition to this, 2009 economic and financial crises and the need for short-term
employment stimulation have contributed to emphasize attention to the irrigation and drainage sector
again. In addition, extensive preparatory work had already been completed with MCC financing for new
investments and the projects helps to capitalize on resources used by the MCC Program to investigate the
sites and prepare designs before these become obsolete in the medium term.

3.       So, the primary objective of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project was to mitigate the
impact from the global financial crisis through extending an IBRD loan in the amount of USD 30.0
million.


2.         Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project Objectives

4.       The objectives of IREP were as follows: (a) improve water use efficiency in two selected
irrigation systems; and (b) foster immediate rural employment. This was achieved by rehabilitating
primary irrigation canals to reduce water losses in two selected schemes, and providing some limited
assistance to the restructuring and strengthening of institutions managing irrigation infrastructure in the
Project areas.

3.         Description of Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project.

5.      Implementation of this Project lasted two construction seasons, starting from October 2009
through June 2011. The Project consisted of the following two components and subcomponents:
Component 1. Rehabilitation of Primary Canals in Talin and Armavir Irrigation Schemes.
         a) civil works for the primary canal rehabilitation ;
         b) services of the Consultancy Firm for Supervision and Quality Control of rehabilitation works.




3
    Excluding livestock



                                                 41
Component 2. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening Activities
      2.1. Project Management and Audits
             2.1.1. Project Management
             2.1.2. Audits (WUAs. WSA, and PIU)

          2.2. Institutional Strengthening
                 2.2.1. The WUAs’ Support Group
                 2.2.2. The Institutional Strengthening Study and Technical Audit of WUAs

6.      The first component financed rehabilitation of 89.5 km of primary canals in total, of which 57.8
km in Tallin Irrigation Scheme (out of the total length of 81.0 km) and 31.7 km in Armavir Irrigation
Scheme (out of the total length of 70.3 km). The component financed also consultant services for
supervision and quality control of rehabilitation works.
7.       The second component financed the Project management, monitoring and evaluation, as well as
financial audits of the Project, WSAs, and WUAs, and selected activities targeted to institutional
strengthening. These activities were as follows: (a) to sustain the WUAs’ Support Team, which continued
training of WUAs ; (b) to conduct an institutional strengthening study of WUAs.

4.      Achievement of Project Objectives and Results
4.1     Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project

      Component 1. Rehabilitation of Primary Canals of Talin and Armavir Irrigation Schemes
                                Length of the Canal to Be
                                   Rehabilitated (m)
                                                                     Annual          Increase in
          Name                                     Actually         Water Saved    Irrigated Area
                                Planned
                                                 Rehabilitated

                                   m                  m               000 m3            ha
Tallin Irrigation Scheme               58,972             57,790        58,595.4             4,968
Talin main canal                       25,122             25,957        37,072.0             3,020
Talin main canal right                 10,113              8,132        14,144.7             1,280
branch
Talin main canal left                  23,737             23,701         7,378.8              668
branch
Armavir Scheme                         24,767             31,723        38,325.3             3,075
Armavir main canal                     13,971             13,609        20,921.6             1,550

                                                            6,933        9,860.0              775

Mrgashat canal                          4,231               5,204        3,683.6              360

Outlet canal of Metsamor                6,565               5,977        3,860.0              390
PS

                  TOTAL                83,739             89,513        96,920.7             8,043




                                                42
9.      As you can see from the above table, the original project design provided for rehabilitation of
about 83.7 km of canals, of which 59.0 km in Talin Irrigation Scheme, and 24.8 km in Armavir Irrigation
Scheme. However, due to project savings it became possible to rehabilitate an additional 7 km long
section of Armavir main canal, thus resulting in total 89.5 km of rehabilitated canals, of which 57.8 km in
Talin Scheme and 31.7 km in Armavir.
9.     This in its turn allowed to exceed also other important indicators, i.e. the annual saved water
came up to 96.9 m3 instead of the originally estimated 87.1 m3; additional potential increase in irrigated
area amounted to 8,043 ha instead of the originally estimated 7,300 ha.
The expectations were that 8,922 person/month of employment would be created under the project. This
important indicator was also exceeded, and the number of created temporary jobs was 11,379 person /
month.

Component 2. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening Measures

10.     Sub-component 2.1. financed all the incremental operational costs necessary for the PIU to
properly implement the Project; audits of the Project, Sevan-Hrazdan Water Jrar JCSC (WSA), and
Akhuryan-Araks Jrar CJSC (WSA). Besides, financial audits of all WUAs were also financed by this sub-
component.
11.      Sub-component 2.2. provided funds for operation of the WUAs’ Support Team. The Support
Team assisted in establishment and training of WUAs. The Support Team was the core group dedicated to
inform rural communities about the concept of WUAs, develop training material and implement WUAs’
training modules.
12.     The same sub-component financed the Institutional Strengthening Study on WUAs. It assessed
technical, organizational, and financial needs of WUAs in carrying out O&M and reflected it in the
preparation of specific business plans for each WUA for the next three years period.

4.2     Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project Additional Financing (AF)

13.      Similar to the original Project, the Additional Financing (AF) addressed problems arising from
the economic crisis, while creating longer-term benefits for irrigation users through the improved quality
of irrigation infrastructure in other regions of the country as well: Aragatsotn, Kotajk, Shirak, Lori,
Ararat, Gegharkounik, and Armavir Regions (Marzes).

14.    The objectives of IREP AF are as follows: i) to improve water use efficiency in selected irrigation
systems; and (ii) foster immediate rual employment.

15.     In contrast with the original Project, which was concentrated on rehabilitation of main and
secondary canals only in two selected irrigation systems - Armavir and Talin, AF activities enlarged their
impact from the territorial point of view, covering new marzes. Besides, unlike the original project, AF
included rehabilitation of on-farm network canals, which was not targeted under the first project.
16.     AF consisted of the following components:

Component 1. Rehabilitation of the Main and Secondary Canals

         (i) Civil works for rehabilitation of the primary canals, and
         (ii) Consultancy services for supervision of rehabilitation works.




                                                43
Component 2. Rehabilitation of On-farm Irrigation Network
         (i)         Civil works for rehabilitation of on-farm canals (USD 3, 86 million);
         (ii)        Consultancy services for supervision of civil works.
Component 3. Project Management and Institutional Activities
                3.1 Additional Project Management
                3.1.1. PIU staff and operation costs;
                3.1.2. WUAs’ Support Team


                3.2 Consultancy services
                3.2.1 Audits of PIU, WSAs, and WUAs; and
                3.2.2 Feasibility study of Meghri Gravity Irrigation Scheme.


17.      Component 1 financed rehabilitation of a total 58,032 m of main and secondary canals, of which
in Ararat Marz - 6,020 m, in Kotajk Marz - 18,989 m, in Aragatsotn Marz - 9,958 m, in Armavir - 14,050
m, in Shirak - 4,764 m, and in Lori - 4,251 m. The same component financed also consultancy services
for supervision of rehabilitation works. The lengths of rehabilitated canals were longer than originally
planned, coming to some 50.0 km, since the project implementation generated savings, which were used
for rehabilitation of new stretches in Ararat Marz - 1,379 m, in Kotajk Marz - 4,585 m, in Aragatsotn
Marz- 325 m, in Armavir Marz - 1,763 m, and in Shirak - 150 m. Reduction of water losses due to
rehabilitation works amounted to around 34.4 million m3 in the main and secondary canals.

18.     Component 2 rehabilitated in total 51,285 m of on-farm canals in 19 communities, of which 12
were in Armavir Marz, five – in Gegharkonik Marz, one in Lori Marz, and one in Shirak.

19.      The Project design initially provided for rehabilitation of canals in the same 19 communities with
total length of around 60 km. Selection of canal stretches for rehabilitation was based on the list of ready
designs with major data prepared by MCA-Armenia.

20.     However, during implementation of the project it became clear that the design solutions were not
complying with reality and community demands. After review of the ready designs, verifications and
adjustments of technical solutions the total rehabilitation length amounted to 51,285 m. At the same
time, the size of the area under command of these canals did not change. As a result of rehabilitation
works water losses in tertiary canals were redfuced by 9.9 million m3. The second component financed
also consultancy services for supervision of rehabilitation of on-farm network canals.

21.      Component 3 financed (a) the Project management (PIU and WUAs’ Support Team), (b) audits
(of the PIU, three WUAs: Sevan-Hrazdan Jrar CJSC, Akhuryan-Araks Jrar CJSC, Debet-Aghstev Jrar
CJSC, and 44 WUAs); and (c) Feasibility Study of Meghry Gravity Iirgation Scheme.




                                                   44
    5.        Project Results Monitoring
    5.1       Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project
          Project Outcomes Indicators                 Baseline Data       Target Value               Actual at Project
                                                                                                       Completion
                                                          2008


    Number of new person- months                           0                    9,000                     11,379
    created
    Amount of wages generated                              0            USD 4.58 million                    …
    Intermediate Outcome Indicator
    Increase in irrigated area as a result of
    rehabilitation works                                28,275 ha              35,570 ha                 36,318 ha


    Component 2
    WUA business plans                                    None                 Complete                  Complete

    Subsidy policy study                                  None                 Complete                  Complete

    GIS WUA information system in                          15                     46                        444
    place nation-wide


    5.2       Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project Additional Financing
    22.     The table below reflects indicators and targets of the original IREP and IREP AF and
    corresponding actual data.

PDO                                    Original                 Changes in AF           Revised Target     Actual at AF
                                       Target                                                              Completion
Reduction of water losses in the
selected schemes.
                                       97 mln. m3               34,4 mln. m3            131.4 mln. m3
                                                                                                           131.4 mln. m3
(% /amount)

Number of temporary
                                                9,000                 7,000                 16,000
person/months created.                                                                                            18,4105
Potential increase of total
irrigation area as a result of              35,570                    52,050                87,600
rehabilitation (IREP/AF).                                                                                          87,600
Restored irrigation area in
communities with rehabilitated                    -                   1,760                  1,760
tertiary network.                                                                                                  1,760
- Developed WUA business plans;                 100%                  100%                  100%


    4
        At the Project completion the total number of WUAs became 44 due to merger of some WUAs.

    5
     The actual number of temporary jobs created under IREP was 11379 person-months ; and 7031 man-
    months – under AF.



                                                                 45
PDO                                Original          Changes in AF        Revised Target   Actual at AF
                                   Target                                                  Completion
- GIS WUA information system in                                                  100%            100%
place nationwide;                      100%                   100%                               100%
- Improved subsidy policy            Completed             In progress      Completed
defined;                                                                                       Completed
- A pilot WUAs’ Federation           Completed             Canceled          Canceled
established.                                                                                    Canceled

   6.      Major Factors Influencing on the Implementation and Outcomes of the Project
   23.      Similar to IREP, the Additional Financing (AF) addressed problems arising from the economic
   crisis, while creating longer-term benefits for irrigation users through the improved quality of irrigation
   infrastructure. Activities implemented were similar to activities under IREP by their nature and methods.
   However, since the rehabilitation of canals was mostly implemented in those marzes, which were not
   included under the first project and were the poorest marzes of the country (Shirak, Kotajk, Lori,
   Gegharkounik, Ararat), the Project has significantly contributed to poverty reduction.

   The Project achieved or exceeded all its main indicators. The total length of rehabilitated main canals
   is 58.0 km, and that of on-farm network canals - 51.3 km.

   7.      Project Costs and Financing

   7.1     Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project

                         (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)


                                          Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest
                                                                                        Percentage at
              Components                   (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                                         Appraisal
                                                                      millions)


   Rehabilitation of On-Farm Irrigation
                                                  33.08                  34.13              103.17%
   Network
   Project Management and Institutional
                                                    3.25                  2.35               72.31%
   Activities

   Total Baseline Cost                            36.33                  36.48
   Physical Contingencies
                                                    0.00                  0.00                0.00
   Price Contingencies
                                                   0.00                   0.00                0.00
   Total Project Costs                             0.00                   0.00
   Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                   0.00                0.00
   Front-end fee IBRD                              0.75                   0.75
   Total Financing Required                       37.08                  37.23




   (b) Financing



                                                     46
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                               Type of                                   Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                 Estimate        Estimate
                                             Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                           (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                         6.33            6.62        104.58%
International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                 30.00           29.99          99.97%
Development
Co-financing (beneficiaries)

7.2      Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project Additional Financing

                      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
            Components                                          Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                                   millions)



Rehabilitation of Identified Stretches of
Canals in the Selected Irrigation                15.90                   16.06               101.01%
Schemes
Rehabilitation of Tertiary Irrigation
                                                  4.02                    3.93               97.76%
Networks
Project Management and Institutional
                                                  1.68                    1.39               82.74%
Activities
Total Baseline Cost                              21.60                   21.38
Physical Contingencies
                                                  0.00                    0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                  0.00                    0.00                 0.00
Total Project Costs                               0.00                    0.00
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                    0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.45                    0.45
Total Financing Required                         22.05                   21.83




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                               Type of        Estimate        Estimate    Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing       (USD            (USD        Appraisal
                                                              millions)       millions)
 Borrower                                                         3.40            3.38        99.41%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                 18.00           17.99          99.94%
and Development
Co-financing (beneficiaries)                                      0.20            0.24          120.00%

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable



                                                    47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Paper for the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project (IREP), July 9, 2009
Project Paper for Additional Financing to the IREP, September 27, 2011
Aide Memoires: May-June 2009 through June 2013
Implementation Status and Results Reports: November 2009 through June 2013
Project Appraisal Document for the Irrigation Systems Enhancement Project, April 25,
2013
Loan Agreement of Original Project
Loan Agreement of Additional Financing

Consultant Reports:   Institutional Strengthening Study, June 15, 2011
                      Arrangements for Providing State Assistance Funds to Water Users
                      Associations, June 15, 2011




                                           48
MAP




      49
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 36939
                                                                                                              To Shulaveri                       45°
                                                     44°                                                                                                                                                                          46°                                                                         47°                                                         48°
                                                                              To Dmanisi
                                                                                                                               Bagrateshen
                              GEOR
                                 RGGIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                GEORGIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE OR GI A
          To Bagdanovka
                                                       Dzoramut                                                                                Noyemberian
                                   Bavra                                Tashir
        Zorakert
                                       Tavshut                                                     Alaverdi                                                           To Kazakh

                                          Ashotsk
41°
                        SHIRAK                                               Step'anavan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41°

                    Amasiya                 Verdaghbiur                                                        Toumanian

                                                                                       L ORI                                                        Ijevan                        Berd

                                        Gyumri                        Spitak
                                                                                      Vanadzor
        To Kars
                                                                                                                                                  TAV U S H
                               Akhurit                                                                                               Dilijan

                                                              Tsakhkahovit                                                                                                                 Artsvashen
                                           Artik
                                                                             Aparan                                                                          Krasnosel'sk
                             Maralik
                                                                                                                                    Sevan
                                                                                                      Tsakhkadzor
                                                                             Aragats                                                                                                                                              AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AZ E R BAI J AN                                                                             ARMENIA
                                                                                                                             Hrazdan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARMENIA 2009 EMERGENCY
                         Verin Talin                     R AGAT SOT N
                                                         RAGAT
                                                       A RAGATSOTN                                         K O TAY K                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECTS LOCATION
      Akhuri




                                                                                                                                                                      LAKE
                  Aragats
                                                                                                 Yegvard                                          Gavar            SEVAN
        n R a




                                                                       Ashtarak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PRIMARY IRRIGATION CANALS TO BE REHABILITATED
           .




                                                                                                               Abovian                                    GEGHARKUNIK                                            Mets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UNDER THE PROJECT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mazra                                                                                                  PRIMARY ROADS (DUAL CARRIAGEWAYS)
                                                                   Echmiadzin
                                        Oktemberjan                                                 YEREVAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Vardenis                                                                                                   PRIMARY ROADS (OTHER)
                                                                                                                  Garni
                   Bagaran                                                                   YEREVAN                                                                   Martuni
                                        Armavir                              Dzhrarat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS
                                                                   Markara
40°                                                                                     Massis                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RESERVOIRS
                                       Araks
                                                R.                                                  Artashat       A R A R AT                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40°


                                                                                                                     Vedi
                                  ARMAV I R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MARZ (PROVINCE) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                 Ararat
                                                                                                                                                                        VAY O T S -                     Jermuk                                                                                                          MAIN TOWNS/VILLAGES

                                        TURKEY                                                                            Yeraskh
                                                                                                                                                                         DZOR                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                        Yegegnadzor                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                              Getap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MARZ (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                   Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Shusha
                                                                                                                                         To Shakhtakhty
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Angekhakot
                                                                                                                                     Ara




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zabukh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vo
                                                                                                                                       ks R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sisian            rot an                   Goris
                                                                                                                                         .




                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Nakhichevan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R.
                                            ARMENIA

                                                                                                                                                                            ZE                                                                      Tatev
                                                                                                                                                                       A




                                                                                                                                                                                 RB
                                                                                                                                                                                      AI                                                   SYUNIK
                                                                                                                                                                                           JA
                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kapan
                                                                                                           ISLAMIC
                                                                                                           ISLA M IC                                                                                                                    Kadzh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To Zangelan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kajaran

          This map was produced by the
                                                                                                           REPUB LIC
                                                                                                           REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                 0         10         20        30       40 MILES
39°
          Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39°
          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any
          other information shown on this map do not imply,
                                                                                                           OF
                                                                                                           O   IRA N
                                                                                                             F IRAN                                                                                                                                                                                                 0    10        20   30    40    50    60 KILOMETERS
          on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                               To Ordubad
          on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                      Megri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To Zangelan
          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Araks R.
                                             44°                                                                                            45°                                                                               46°                                                                               47°                                                             48°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JUNE 2009
