Armenia: Addressing the Economic Crisis by Creating Jobs and Conserving Water
                                                                                                               94145
                                                                                                             April 17, 2012




 Improving the Irrigation Infrastructure and Creating Employment
 Opportunities in Armenia


Synopsis
With IBRD funding and expertise, the Irrigation Rehabilitation Emergency Project (IREP) is
helping Armenia improve its irrigation infrastructure to provide reliable irrigation water services
on about 36,000 hectares to more than 130,000 people who derive their income from
agriculture. Irrigation rehabilitation activities have so far generated more than 11,000 jobs, an
extremely important benefit for an economy severely hit by the 2009 financial and economic
crises.




Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
The Bank has been supporting the rehabilitation
of the irrigation and drainage (I&D) infrastructure
and institutional development process in the
subsector in Armenia since 1995. While much
had been achieved, irrigation rehabilitation
investments in Armenia remained important. As
a result of the 2009 economic and financial
crises, unemployment rose sharply, as many
mines were closed or slowed down, construction
activity dropped by 56 percent in the first five
months of 2009 compared to the same period in
2008, and migrants working abroad returned                Slideshow:  The New Landscape of Armenia’s
home due to the lack of employment                        Agriculture
opportunities outside the country.

Approach
The need for short-term employment stimulation through
                                                                      More Results
labor-intensive infrastructure projects has once again drawn
attention to the I&D sector, especially because rehabilitation

                                                                      11,379
work on the main irrigation canals could be carried out only
during the winter (the off-irrigation season), when other
construction activities are impossible and unemployment is
the highest. The IREP aimed to improve water use efficiency           man-month temporary jobs were
                                                                      generated in 2010-11 through
in two selected irrigation schemes while fostering immediate          irrigation rehabilitation activities
rural employment. These objectives were achieved by
rehabilitating two main irrigation canals to reduce water
losses and providing limited assistance to strengthen the
institutions managing the irrigation infrastructure. To boost
employment and reduce poverty as quickly as possible, the
Government and the Bank chose as its criteria: (i) areas
                                                                        15-16%
                                                                        decrease in water losses (from
where Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) preliminary                22.5 to 6-7 percent) was
designs were ready to go; (ii) areas with increasing                    registered between primary
                                                                        intake and secondary structure
unemployment due to the financial crisis; (iii) schemes with            interface
sufficient economic returns to justify the investment; and (iv)
systems with no complex social or environmental
ramifications. The project also used construction approaches
                                                                        MORE INFORMATION
that maximized labor inputs without sacrificing construction
quality and integrity.                                                   Irrigation Rehabilitation
                                                                         Emergency Project (P116681) –
                                                                         July 28, 2009 – June 30, 2013
Results
                                                                         The World Bank in Armenia

       A full 89.4 km of all identified sections of the Armavir          Country Program Snapshot
       and Talin main canals were rehabilitated in 2010–11,              RESULTS: The New Landscape
       reducing water losses between primary intake and                  of Armenia's Agriculture
       secondary structure interface on average of about 15–
       16 percent (from about 22.5 to some 6–7 percent).

       An estimated 7,000 hectares can potentially be                
       returned to irrigation.

       All 44 operating Water User Associations (WUAs) have developed business plans,
       which were nonexistent in November 2009 at the launch of the project.

       In 2010–11, irrigation rehabilitation activities generated 11,379 man-month temporary
       jobs, instead of the expected 9,000. The value of wages generated by this temporary
       employment is estimated to be approximately US$5.4 million, as compared to the
       expected US$4.5 million.

       About 1,200 additional agricultural jobs were created during the 2010–11 agricultural
       seasons. An estimated 1,200 more agricultural jobs are expected to be generated in the
       two years following project completion, when higher-value crops will replace those of
       lower-value.

Bank Contribution
The total project cost is US$57.93, of which the IBRD provided US$30 million under the
original project and US$18 million under the additional financing approved in 2011. The
Government counterpart funding is US$9.93 million.

Partners
The Bank team had developed a long-standing partnership with the MCC, which was initiated
in 2005 under an earlier irrigation project. Technical designs for the rehabilitation of all systems
were prepared under the MCC program. In close discussions between the MCC, the
Government, and the Bank, two schemes—the Talin and Armavir primary canals—were
identified for the IREP. Technical designs made available by the MCC formed the basis for the
project. Other technical designs developed by the MCC were used to scale up and
geographically expand IREP activities under additional financing.

Moving Forward
Additional financing of US$18 million has been effective since December 13, 2011. A follow-up
irrigation project of US$22 million will continue the reforms already started and focus on
strengthening the WUAs as key institutions for ensuring sustainability in the sector. A larger
focus will be placed on water management issues, including the wider use of modern irrigation
techniques and a more efficient use of water, which may help to reduce water delivery costs
and contribute to financial sustainability in the irrigation sector.

Beneficiaries
Fifty-one communities in Armenia’s Armavir marz (province), populated by more than 130,000
people, including 49,000 women, and consisting of about 32,500 households, of which1,300 are
headed by female water users, benefitted from the infrastructure improvements. More water
availability necessitated an increase in the irrigated areas, resulting in an addition of
approximately 1,200 rural jobs in the 2010–11 agricultural seasons. Vrezh Yeghikyan, a farmer
from the Berkashat village (Armavir marz), noted: “For the farmers of the region, this project
was the best investment over the last 70 years.”

 
