                                  Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                Report No: AB135

Project Name                     ETHIOPIA - ICT Assisted Development Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           General information and communications sector (60%); General education sector
                                 (10%); Health (10%); Tertiary education (10%); General public administration
                                 sector (10%)
Theme                            Rural services and infrastructure (P); Decentralization (P); Education for the
                                 knowledge economy (P); Other human development (S); Trade facilitation and
                                 market access (S)
Project                          P078458
Borrower(s)                      FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency(ies)         ETHIOPIAN ICT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (EICTDA)
                                 Address: P.O. Box 1028
                                 Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
                                 Contact Person: Ato Bekele Gebremedhin
                                 Tel: (251-1) 537312        Fax: (251-1) 534246           Email:
                                 bekele@telecom.net.et
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                April 9, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date              November 26, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 27, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Summary of Key Structural and Institutional Features of the Sector

Policy Environment

Ethiopia's broadcasting law is progressive compared to other sub-Saharan African countries.
However, in practice no private radio or television stations are licensed to operate as yet.
Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC) is the incumbent public telecom operator, with
a monopoly over all telecom services in the country (fixed, mobile, Internet and data
communications). Independent V-SAT connections and satellite phones are not allowed, and
call-back services are illegal.

In the Information Technology (IT) and networking segment of the sector, there is no coherent
policy in place as yet to support the growth of IT industry. Existing high import tariffs (40%) on
computer and communications equipment make the widespread use of such systems rather
expensive, particularly for smaller businesses and institutions.

The Government has recently decided to proceed with the licensing of rural connectivity
initiatives, private sector Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Community Radios.


Institutional Features

                                                      2
                                                                                                        PID




Development of ICTs in Ethiopia has been treated in an ad hoc manner until recently. Various
sectors and institutions have tried to address their needs and concerns independently, rather than
in the context of creating a favorable framework applicable to all. The ICT Policy Paper of 2003
provides a framework for defining the direction of the sector and its development objectives. It
also sets the stage for institutional arrangements for policy development, and the promotion and
regulation of the ICT sector.

The Ethiopian Telecommunications Agency (ETA) is the Regulator. ETA is a rather new
institution and its capacity in executing its mandate is limited. ETA carries out frequency
assignment for a small segment of the spectrum. However, it does not have any spectrum
management and monitoring activities due to lack of licensing schemes, human resources, and
monitoring equipment.

The government has recently established the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA),
which is mandated to oversee the implementation of the ICT strategy.

Connectivity, Data Communications Infrastructure and Related Services

It is generally accepted that a robust telecommunications infrastructure is the necessary condition
for more effective development of markets and growth of the economy. The national
telecommunication switching capacity is about 550,000 lines, of which about 340,000 are
currently in use. About 60 percent of telephones are concentrated in Addis Ababa. Ethiopia's
teledensity is about 0.54, one of the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Use of mobile phones in Ethiopia is rather limited, but growing. The number of current
subscribers is about 90,000 and growing. Costs are relatively affordable, but service quality and
availability are low. ETC plans to introduce prepaid and subscriber mobile lines (about 400,000
new lines during 2004-2005) to alleviate the situation.

Despite the existing regulatory and infrastructure limitations, the private sector has been
increasingly active in offering IT related goods and services in recent years. Over 170 companies
offer computer technology related products and services, mostly in Addis Ababa.

A dedicated digital data network provides the underlying infrastructure for ETC's Internet
service. The number of internet accounts is still limited, and is about 6,000. International link
congestion is quite severe for daytime connections. Despite the availability of the nationwide local
call tariff for dial-up Internet users, the distribution of Internet users is still strongly skewed to the
capital (94% are located in Addis). This is partly due to the limited availability of telecom
infrastructure, and partly because of the low level of computerization outside the capital. The
speed and reliability of internet connections are rather low.


ICT Human Resource

                                                  3
                                                                                                  PID


Considerable efforts are under way to increase the number of trained ICT professionals in
Ethiopia. These include vocational training programs offered by various institutions, as well as
college and university level degree programs in computer science, electronics, telecommunications
and information theory, software engineering and programming, technical management, and
design and maintenance of management information systems.

ETC's Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (ITIT) provides basic
training in plant maintenance, telegraph and telex, switching, transmission, traffic and management
of telecommunication networks. ITIT has recently begun basic training on computer applications
and is planning to offer graduate courses in telecom engineering, management and information
technologies in 2004 - 2005.

Since 1992, the private sector has been providing basic computer and software applications
training. The growth of computer training centers in the country, despite their uneven quality, has
improved the general level of computer literacy and resulted in more skilled computer usage.
Most of these computer-training centers offer courses on application packages, systems analysis
and design, and computer maintenance. However, the quality of facilities and training programs
varies greatly among providers.

Applications in Sectors

The basic education system has been virtually untouched by computers or Internet. Very few of
the 12,000 primary schools have computers or internet access. The Government is currently
implementing a School Network program (SchoolNet) that will connect about 500 secondary
schools as part of a national network. The Government has started to introduce ICT training
programs in secondary and Technical and Vocational and Educational Training (TVET) schools.

The tertiary education system comprises 6 national universities and 3 polytechnics with a total of
approximately 75,000 students. Addis Ababa University (AAU) is the largest tertiary institution
and is also host to the African Virtual University (AVU) facilities. AAU has developed a
campus-wide network with partial access to internet. Most other institutions have limited access
to computer networks and internet.

Ethiopia has one of the lowest health status indicators in the world. Infant mortality is 98/1000,
maternal mortality rate is 1,800/100,000, and life expectancy is 42 years (2002 World
Development Indicators). Health services are only accessible to about 50 per cent of the
population, and most of the medical experts are concentrated in the major cities. Use of ICT in
health service administration is budding, the GoE is developing a computer based Health
Information System.

E-commerce and the use of the Internet in trade are at a very early stage of development in
Ethiopia. E-commerce related laws and regulations such as privacy protection and digital
signature have yet to be adopted. Automatic Teller Machines (ATMs) are being introduced on a
pilot basis.

                                                    4
                                                                                                  PID


There are about 350,000 civil servants in Ethiopia, of which only 2,200 have email accounts
(based on 735 government EthioNet accounts each having 3 users). It is estimated that about
14% of public servants have access to PCs.

Several government ministries and agencies, including Ministry of Finance, have parts of their
operations computerized. There are also plans for computerization of other public sector
management operations. Through the European Union Delegation, the International Parliamentary
Union (IPU) has provided funding to the Ethiopian Federal Parliament and the Federation Council
for a project called Development and Upgrading of the Parliamentary Information System
(DUPIS).

The Ethiopian Civil Service College in Addis Ababa is operating a Global Development Learning
Network (GDLN) center, offering video conferencing and distance learning services in Addis
Ababa. The two-way video conferencing facility is housed in a classroom capable of taking up to
40 students. A variety of courses have been offered to about 1,200 students.

The Government is developing implementing plans for a Government Network and a local
authority (Woreda) network, to connect the Federal, Regional and local governments. The initial
phase will create a Regional and Woreda administration network that will connect over 560 high
schools and 611 Woreda administrations with the Regional and Federal governments. The
proposed initial applications for this network include communication and data exchange among
local, regional and federal government agencies. The Government is also considering broader use
of these facilities for service delivery to local communities and offering them as access points for
rural connectivity and access through a variety of arrangements, which include public as well as
private service providers.

ICT Standards

Lack of locally adapted technology standards for information technology systems is a major
concern that requires special attention. Several major local languages are widely used in Ethiopia,
which vary across the Regions. Government's broader objectives of capacity building,
decentralization, and networked classrooms and local administrations will require development of
ICT standards that are responsive to these needs.


Summary of the Bank's assessments of key policy, institutional issues and constraints

The Government has recently taken several positive steps to address the ICT sector development
challenges. It has established the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA), with a
mandate to propose policy and to coordinate a multi-sectoral effort for development of the ICT
sector. Two key telecommunications agencies (ETA and ETC) now have newly appointed
managing directors, and the new management teams that are keen on advancing the ICT sector
development objectives. All these developments could facilitate the steady growth and
development of the sector.

                                                   5
                                                                                                    PID


Encouraging developments in licensing of private sector operators to set up cyber cafes and to
engage in sales, installation and service of communications equipment and services are also
consistent with the Government's stated objectives in its ICT Policy paper.

However, major challenges still remain. The Broadcasting law allows setting up of private sector
nongovernment programs, but nongovernmental operations or programs are virtually nonexistent
in Ethiopia. Staff of the Ethiopian Broadcasting Authority (EBA) lack exposure to international
best practices in broadcasting policy formulation, licensing and the development of local
(language) content.

ETC's position as the incumbent monopoly has led to its inefficiency and ineffectiveness in
responding to customer needs and the growing demands of the public and private institutions for
connectivity, communications, and data exchange services.

ETA's institutional capacity for regulation of the sector is weak. Major challenges remain in the
areas of rural connectivity, development of national telecom infrastructure, mobile telephony, data
communications, and availability and affordability of internet and related services.

The Information Technology sector (computers, networks, and related services) is small but
growing. ICT human resources are limited due to small markets, low salaries, low on the job
incentives, and lack of institutional infrastructure. Sector-specific ICT applications are limited in
scope, and very often are implemented in a disjointed and fragmented manner. The implemented
solutions are also generally under-utilized. Information availability, particularly in local languages,
is limited. Lack of ICT standards hinders widespread growth of applications, particularly in local
languages.

In practical terms, a number of regulatory, technical, and operational prerequisites must be
instituted before ICTs can have a significant impact on Ethiopia's poverty reduction and
socioeconomic development efforts.

Government's strategy to address these issues and constraints

For Ethiopia to meet its development objectives using ICTs as enablers, considerable investments
are needed in institutional and sector capacity building efforts. The same is true about human
resource development needs, and communications and information technology infrastructure. In
addition, appropriate policy and regulatory reforms are needed to ensure equitable, reliable, and
affordable access to information and communication technologies.

In response to these challenges, the Government has embarked on a major effort to put in place
many of the building blocks required for developing a robust ICT sector in Ethiopia. The
Government has:

     1. Prepared an ICT Policy paper (driven by the development objectives outlined in the
        SDPRP) which is reviewed and endorsed by the Council of Ministers;
     2. Established the Ethiopian Information and Communication Technology Development

                                                   6
                                                                                                    PID


       Authority (EICTDA) as the national policy advocacy and coordinating body for ICTs;
   3. Initiated a national ICT capacity building program (see Section B for details);
   4. Appointed a new management teams for the Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority
       (ETA) and the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC) respectively, to ensure
       effective strengthening of telecom regulation and removal of regulatory bottlenecks, for
       ICT development and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the operator in
       response to the changing demands of the market;
   5. Appointed a new general manager for the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation
       (ETC) to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the operator in responding to the
       increasing and changing demands of the market;
   6. Initiated several projects to facilitate active participation of the private sector in provision
       of ICT and telecom related value added services (e.g. issuing licenses for provision of
       internet services and cyber café's by the private sector);
   7. Agreed to increase connectivity and access to communications services, particularly in
       rural areas, through licensing of private sector Internet Service Providers (ISPs); Rural
       Connectivity public-private partnerships; and community radios.

2. Objectives
The objective of this project is to assist communities to improve their livelihood through the use
of appropriate Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) that facilitate increased
access to markets, development information, and public services.

To achieve this objective, the ICT Assisted Development Project will enable public and private
sector providers of information, goods and services to improve the quality and quantity of their
products through the efficient and effective use of ICTs.

The project will therefore help to:

   1. Create an enabling policy, legal and regulatory environment for the growth of ICTs;
   2. Strengthen the institutional capacity of key policy, regulatory and advocacy institutions;
   3. Establish locally adapted ICT industry standards and data security arrangements;
   4. Foster opportunities for Small and Medium Enterprises, women and youth in the ICT
   sector;
   5. Facilitate access to markets and market information for rural and urban communities;

The intended outputs of the project are:

   l Specific policy, legal, and regulatory decisions, proclamations, and legislation that will
       create an enabling and growth enhancing environment for broadcasting, communications,
       information technology, internet, knowledge sharing, and private sector investment;
   l an operational Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA); and a capable Ethiopian
       Telecommunications Authority (ETA) and Ethiopian Broadcasting Authority (EBA) with
       the capacity to regulate and foster the growth of ICTs;
   l A public-private partnership between Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC)
       and private sector groups to offer community level connectivity and access to the national
       telecommunications and ICT services;

                                                     7
                                                                                                     PID


   l A growing private sector ICT business community that can respond faster to market
         demands;
   l Successfully tested appropriate technologies for targeted, scalable interventions to
         increase the efficiency and effectiveness of efforts for reaching Millennium Development
         Goals (MDGs).

The Government's ICT capacity building program, and the ICTAD project are directly driven by
Ethiopia's national development goals and sector development objectives.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
          i.
A key contribution of the Bank to this project is its ability to function as a "Knowledge Bank" to
help Ethiopia develop innovative approaches for solving its problems. The Bank is now in a
position not only to offer financial assistance, but also act as a knowledge broker and partner. In
the course of the project preparation discussions the Bank has already helped the Government to
shift its focus on ICTs from a traditional "technology driven" approach to an innovative
"development-objective driven" one. The Government has now taken full ownership of the
concept of "ICT-assisted Development" and has already revised its ICT Policy to reflect this
re-orientation.

The Bank also has the ability to convene donors in Ethiopia in relation to ICT-assisted service
delivery in health, education and other sectors. The Bank has brought in some measure of
coordination to ICT sector development through initiating the establishment of a Donors
consultative group on ICTs, with active support from the Government, UNDP and other partners.
Bilateral donors have expressed interest in providing technical assistance and grant funds for a
number of activities envisaged under this project. For example, the Government of Japan has
provided significant support for this project in the form of a PHRD grant that will finance the bulk
of the project preparation activities. The German Development Service has also agreed to actively
support ICT human resource development efforts through provision of technical assistance, and
strengthening of ICT vocational training programs. The Bank can facilitate additional support for
various aspects of the ICT Assisted Development.

Additional value added of the Bank will be through:

   l increasing the impact of ICT Development and ICT-assisted programs by supporting an
         integrated multi-sectoral approach, and improving coordination among sectors in their
         ICT programs;
   l Sharing lessons of experience for ICT assisted development based on global and Regional
         experience and adapted knowledge (e.g. Iganga -Uganda maternal mortality reduction,
         community radio for education, SchoolNet, etc.);
   l Offering global lessons of experience in ICT sector reform and institutional development
         issues;
   l Expanding the opportunities for the private sector participation. The potential market for
         the private sector is huge, particularly in the IT training, equipment sales and service, and
         value added services. If the Government proceeds with its plans for gradual opening of the
         market (as it has strongly demonstrated its willingness for doing it so far), there could be a

                                                   8
                                                                                                    PID


        sizable increase in opportunities for the private sector to expand its market. Some
        estimates will be prepared under the current PHRD grant for the preparation of this
        project.

4. Description
The project consists of two components:
    1. Policy and Institutional Support, and
    2. Application and Community Support

Component 1. Policy and Institutional Support ­ $13.4 mil

This component will establish an enabling environment for the growth of the ICT sector by
supporting a comprehensive assessment of the existing policy, regulatory and legal framework in
the areas of information technology, telecom, broadcasting, knowledge sharing, and internet. It
will also strengthen the capacity of key institutions that regulate the sector, provide services, or
manage the reform process.

The Policy, Regulatory and Legal Framework sub-component will help identify policy and
regulatory impediments to the growth of ICTs, and will propose favorable trade, taxation,
privacy, and security policies. It will also support drafting of appropriate business law and
preparation of new policies and regulations that will address the current deficiencies. The ICT
Standards sub-component will support development of coherent, and well defined locally
adapted standards through an open and participatory process. The subcomponent will also help
establish Data Security standards and procedures. The sub-component will include training and
study tours and technical and management training for key ICT stakeholders and policy
makers on use and management of new communication and data exchange technologies such as
internet; Internet Protocol (IP) based networks, wireless communications and related
technologies. Particular emphasis will be given to clarification of needs and identification of
options for the development of an adequate and sustainable infrastructure for data exchange
purposes. This is particularly important in the context of the Government's intent to decentralize
public administration activities to local authorities at Woreda level in the near future. Since the
bulk of activities under this component consist of consultancies, the funding for this component
will be pooled to facilitate implementation arrangements.

The Institutional strengthening sub-component will be the key ICT policy and regulatory
agencies to develop the necessary capacity for effective support of ICT sector. These agencies
include the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA); the Ethiopian
Telecommunications Authority (ETA) and the Ethiopian Broadcasting Authority (EBA), and the
Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology (ITIT). ETA's capabilities will be
strengthened in Frequency Spectrum Management and in providing advisory services on sector
reform options to allow rapid growth of ICTs. The EBA will be strengthened to better facilitate
the licensing of local, community based radio broadcast operations. ITIT will receive technical
assistance to strengthen its training programs in the areas of advanced digital technologies and
networks.

                                                    9
                                                                                                    PID




Component 2. Application and Community Support- $18.4 mil

An important objective of the Government's development program is to increase access to
telecommunications services and internet connectivity to communities throughout the country.
International experience suggests that the expansion of communications network enhances
economic growth, and that access to communications in rural areas diminishes the urban/rural
economic disparities, provides access to market information, and facilitates service delivery in
health, education and other areas thereby reinforcing the poverty reduction contribution of ICTs.

The Connectivity / Access sub component will facilitate the creation of public-private
partnerships between ETC and qualified cooperatives and/or private sector groups to offer
community level connectivity and access to the national telecommunications and ICT services. In
these partnerships ETC would act as a wholesaler of communications network infrastructure, and
the private sector operators will be the service providers at community level, offering
telecommunications services, access to internet, and other value-added services. A set of access
rules are developed for the use of corresponding funds by qualified cooperatives and/or private
sector operators. The ICT Private Sector Development (Incubator) sub-component will foster
the direct participation of the private sector in all ICT related aspects by creating opportunities for
their growth in the ICT sector. The objective is to identify opportunities for a more active
participation of private companies in the ICT sector, both locally as well as internationally.
Specific activities will be designed for creating business opportunities for the private sector to
strengthen its ICT capacity by direct involvement in sector activities through the establishment of
an incubator that will provide technology-enhanced support systems to private sector companies.
Other activities will include the strengthening of private sector's capacity for the use and
maintenance of locally adapted technologies. This sub-component will also support initiatives for
increasing opportunities for women and youth to participate in ICT related businesses or training
opportunities.

The ICT Training of trainers in a selected TVET center, will support specific ICT related
technical training delivered by vocational streams (either through secondary level vocation
training programs or in polytechnics and community colleges). Special emphasis will be given to
developing ICT technical and vocational training skills, and the creation of a center of excellence
for ICT education. This sub-component will also support strengthening of a Regional Micro and
Small Enterprise Authority (ReMSEDA) to invoke a stronger involvement of small and micro
enterprises into the development of the ICT sector. The Community ICT- Development
Program (CIDEV) sub-component will support community-oriented initiatives that help
communities to access and use ICT assisted services for their development needs and activities.
This program will finance proposals submitted by communities or intermediaries (e.g. NGOs) that
meet a set of predefined criteria. These criteria are defined around the following basic principles:
ownership by communities, feasibility, sustainability, scalability, alignment with national priorities
and ICTAD objectives, and measurability of results. A special operational manual will be
produced by the PMU to allow for a transparent, and swift processing of proposals. The ICTAD
PMU will manage the program.

                                                  10
                                                                                                 PID


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($5.00)
IDA ($25.00)
German Development Service ($1.80)
Total Project Cost: $31.80

6. Implementation

The project will have an implementation period of five years, from July 2004 to July 2009.

The Government of Ethiopia has created the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA) to
coordinate ICT related developments in Ethiopia, and to advise the Government on ICT policy
issues. This Authority is accountable to the Ministry of Capacity Building, and is responsible for
overseeing the implementation of the Government's ICT Development program.

Executing Agency: The EICTDA (Ethiopian ICT Development Authority) will be the executing
agency for the project. Ministry of Capacity Building (MoCB) will be the oversight agency for
ICTAD project through EICTDA. A Project Management Unit will be established in EICTDA,
which will be responsible for the management, coordination and monitoring of the project
activities. Policy and technical guidance would be provided by MoCB. The PMU will be under
EICTDA Authority while maintaining its operational autonomy.

Project Management

Central level: The PMU at the center would be staffed with six experts to coordinate and
monitor the project activities and report to the ICT Directorate within EICTDA. It will include a
PMU Project Manager, a Communication / Program Specialist, a Financial Management
Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and an
Administrative Officer. Additional staff may be hired as needed. The PMU staff are contractual
and have been recruited on a competitive basis as of May 2004. The PMU Director was
appointed by EICTDA in March 2004.

Regional level: In the regions, the regional capacity building bureaus will be responsible for the
implementation of ICTAD project activities. It is expected that each regional bureau will assign a
focal person for ICTAD project. The woreda capacity building office in the regions will be
responsible for woreda level activities. Depending on the level of activities the woreda capacity
building offices will assign a focal person for ICTAD activities. Staff requirement could be kept
flexible depending on regional and business needs.

The Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist will engage in secondary backstopping based on i)
information stemming from reports and M&E data to be submitted by communities implementing
accepted proposals and ii) the supplied data as specified in Annex I of the PAD which will be used
for analytical purposes indicating developments important to the achievements of component
outcomes and the project development objective. To ensure that proposals submitted by
communities make provisions for M&E, templates will be designed by the M&E Officer and

                                                   11
                                                                                                    PID


additional support will be given by the Program Assistant of the PMU. Templates to gather
baseline information on community level for four different sectors (Health, Agriculture and
Education) have already been developed through an M&E study. Additional templates need to be
developed as required and based on the sectors touched by the Community ICT Development
Program.


7. Sustainability

Government Ownership
The ICTAD project is responding to a very strong client demand for capacity building in the ICT
sector to create an enabling environment for the growth of the sector, and to strengthen service
delivery to communities. The Government has launched a national ICT Development initiative to
meet these objectives. The Government's overall ICT-Assisted Development program appears
very ambitious and its full implementation requires strong institutions and human capacity beyond
present levels. The ICTAD project is therefore focusing on strengthening them.

The project preparation process included several consultation workshops with local stakeholders
and beneficiaries to ensure that the design and implementation of each component is fully
endorsed and owned by the respective stakeholders. These include consultations with
NGOs/CSOs and Community Based Organizations (e.g. Kebeles, Farmers Associations) and other
community and local government institutions.

The project will also actively support and promote an increasing role for the private sector in
provision of ICT human resource training and local content development. While the initial major
investments for development of training of trainers may be covered under the project, the long
term maintenance of such facilities, the operating costs and other related expenses must be
integrated into the annual budgets of the respective institutions.

In addition, potential sources of revenue generation (e.g. registration fees, user fees, etc.) must be
realistically developed and implemented. The project will assist the Government in assessing these
needs and developing appropriate measures to ensure sustainability of these initiatives beyond the
project period.

The fiscal implications of the institutional strengthening activities will be minimal, and well within
the absorption capacity of the Government budget. The Government has already planned to
provide on-going funding for the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority, and ETA, during and
beyond the life cycle of the project. In addition to the already existing strong government
ownership, the project seeks social support through continuous dialogue with stakeholders and
communities.

Technical appraisal of the design of the activities funded under the CIDEV subcomponent is based
on applying principles of appropriate and locally adaptable technologies, and therefore is
consistent with existing level of capacity and technical know-how in the country. Scalability of
any proposed activity will be a requirement for its funding under the ICTAD project.

                                                   12
                                                                                                   PID


It is expected that the fiscal impact of policy reform programs will be mainly absorbed by the
project, and that their potential budgetary implications will be minimal beyond the duration of the
project. Sustainability of the CIDEV program activities beyond the project duration are of
concern. The more successful and scalable activities may require additional resources in order to
be scaled up or replicated in other areas or sectors. However, determination of scalability of
successful CIDEV financed projects would include a careful analysis of their costs and benefits
prior to scaling up.


8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following lessons have been incorporated in the design of the ICTAD project:

Bank-wide Lessons of Experience:
    l Building regulatory institutions is a fragile, long-term process and therefore local demand
        for reform must be nurtured and capacity supported over a long time;
    l Development of strategic information systems is a demanding and complex task, requiring
        significant attention and expertise from the Bank and borrower;
    l Privatization is likely to be effective in producing improved performance only when the
        necessary policy and regulatory framework is created first. Moreover, in pursuing
        privatization, borrowers should be encouraged to move to competition in all segments of
        telecommunication services as early as possible;
    l Consultations with stakeholders are essential for the success of reforms;
    l Experience from past projects indicates that a main risk has been the limited capacity of
        the implementing agency, in particular, the ability of the agency to effectively address
        problems related to contract management, contract administration, and financial and
        technical monitoring;
    l Content development must be genuinely locally driven, albeit with the assistance of
        outsiders to help identify specific needs;
    l Newly created regulatory agencies are frequently overwhelmed by their responsibilities,
        but have little in-house expertise to draw upon. Support from on-site advisers and
        operational advice during the initial stages to deal with priority issues are invaluable;
    l Telecommunications sector policy should include incentives to promote access to services
        to rural populations and to improve the affordability of services to the poor in both rural
        and urban areas;
    l The momentum created by policy reform initiatives can lead to sustained sector growth
        provided implementation is undertaken promptly;
    l Existence of an independent regulator within a stable regulatory framework encourages
        higher levels of investment and more rapid development of services that are being opened
        to competition (e.g. Value added service);
    l The project design reflects the well known lesson that reform projects are likely to
        succeed when there is commitment at the highest level. Hence this project focuses on the
        areas where the Government of Ethiopia is committed to take action.

Other Lessons:
    l Introducing a phased approach will work most effectively by starting with the realities on

                                                      13
                                                                                                         PID


         the ground, establishing base lines, introducing gradual change, strengthening existing
         institutional capacity, responding to business needs based on existing service improvement
         demands, and dealing with policy, regulatory, and legal reform issues in parallel with
         institutional and human capacity building;
    l Tying reform measures to removal of bottlenecks for the Government's service delivery
         and development agenda will increase the chances of reform success;
    l Linking the scope of project activities to existing absorption capacity of stakeholders and
         beneficiaries will improve the chances for the long-term sustainability and effectiveness of
         these activities;
    l Adopting a learning by doing approach will increase the impact of human capacity
         building efforts and will improve sustainability.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
       Issues   :
It is expected that there will be no environmental issues with respect to the ICTAD project. Results of the
Environmental Impact Assessment will be taken into account during the detailed design.

10. List of factual technical documents:
1. Ethiopia Statistical Abstracts 2001, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Central Statistical
Authority, March 2002,
Addis Ababa.
2. Information and Communication Technology Policy (Draft), Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, -
April 2002, Addis Ababa.
3. Ethiopian telecommunications Corporation Annual Statistical Bulletin 2000-2001, Addis Ababa.
4. Country Assistance Strategy for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, The World Bank, March
24, 2003, Washington D.C.
5. 2002 World Development Indicators, The World Bank, April 2002, Washington, D.C.

11. Contact Point:

       Task Manager
       Bobak Rezaian
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
      Washington D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 473-3290
       Fax: (202) 477-2977

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:     (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

14
      PID

