                           Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                            Report No: AC123
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/12/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ETHIOPIA                                         Project ID: P078458
Project: ICT Assisted Development Project                 Task Team Leader: Bobak Rezaian
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 26, 2003            IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 4, 2004                                IDA Amount ($m): 25.00
Managing Unit: AFTKL                                      Sector: General information and communications
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance       sector (30%); General public administration sector
Loan (SIM)                                                (20%); Tertiary education (20%); Health (15%);
Status: Lending                                           General education sector (15%)
                                                          Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                                                          Decentralization (P); Education for the knowledge
                                                          economy (P); Other human development (S); Trade
                                                          facilitation and market access (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objective of this project is to assist rural and urban communities residing in project areas to
have increased access to ICT assisted public and private services, and to use these services more
effectively to improve their livelihood, increase their income, have better access to markets and
participate in local decision-making.

To achieve this objective, the ICT Assisted Development Project will help to:

    1. Create an enabling policy, legal and regulatory environment for the growth of ICTs and
        establish locally adapted ICT industry standards;
    2. Establish a national ICT advocacy and coordination body to facilitate the mainstreaming of
        ICTs for socioeconomic development;
    3. Develop the necessary human resources and foster opportunities for the Small and
        Medium Enterprises, women and youth;
    4. Facilitate the use of appropriate technologies for development of applications and
        local-language content in various sectors for rural development, good governance, and
        service delivery in agriculture, health and education.

Together, these will increase access to markets and market information, health and education
services, and public service delivery to rural communities and the poor.

The intended outputs of the project are:

   l specific policy, legal and decisions, proclamations, and legislation that will create an
        enabling and growth enhancing environment for broadcasting, communications,
        information technology, internet, content development, knowledge sharing, human
        resource development, standards, ICT-enhanced sector applications, and private sector

                                                   2
                                                                                                 ISDS


        investment;
   l an operational Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA) and a capable Ethiopian
        Telecommunications Authority (ETA), with the capacity to regulate and coordinate ICT
        related activities;
   l a Human Resource base in ICT education and training, and the corresponding institutions,
        computer labs, networks and distant learning centers for the application and development
        of ICT in the country;
   l A public/private partnership between Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC)
        and qualified cooperatives and/or private sector groups to offer community level
        connectivity and access to the national telecommunications and ICT services, using ETC's
        national backbone infrastructure;
   l local language content and resources (information portals, local knowledge networks, and
        community radio programs) that are easily accessible by stakeholder communities;
   l successfully tested ICT-assisted service delivery pilots in rural development, rural
        connectivity, good governance, health, education, and other sectors.

The Government's broader ICT capacity building effort, and the ICTAD project are directly
driven by the development goals and sector objectives of Ethiopia's poverty alleviation program,
and are fully anchored in the current sector development programs.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):

The project consists of five components:

Component 1. Facilitating creation of an Enabling Policy, Legal and Regulatory
Environment

This component will establish an enabling environment for the growth of the ICT sector by
supporting a comprehensive assessment of the existing policy, legal and regulatory framework,
particularly in the areas of information technology, telecom, information sharing, and internet.
The Policy, Legal and Regulatory Framework sub-component will help identify policy and
regulatory impediments to the growth of ICTs, and will help propose favorable trade, taxation,
privacy, and security policies. It will also support drafting of appropriate business law and
preparation of new policies and regulations that will address the current deficiencies.

Several major local languages are widely used in Ethiopia, particularly in the Regions.
Government's broader objectives of capacity building, decentralization, and networked
classrooms and local administrations will require development of ICT standards that are
responsive to these needs. The ICT Standards sub-component will therefore support specific
activities to translate standardization requirements into coherent, well defined tasks and projects,
and promote an open process for establishment of the necessary standards.

The Training and Study Tours sub-component will include technical and management training
and study tours for key ICT stakeholders and policy makers on use and management of new
communication and data exchange technologies such as internet; Internet Protocol (IP) based

                                                     3
                                                                                                   ISDS


networks, wireless communications and related technologies. Particular emphasis will be given to
clarification of needs and identification of options for the development of an adequate and
sustainable infrastructure for data exchange purposes. This is particularly important in the context
of the Government's intent to decentralize public administration activities to local authorities at
Woreda level in the near future.

Since the bulk of activities under this component consist of consultancies, the funding for this
component will be pooled to facilitate implementation arrangements.

Component 2.       ICT Capacity Building

The ICT Human Resource Development sub-component will focus on human resource training
and content development capacity. The sub-component's focus in the short to mid-term will be on
supporting specific technical training programs delivered by vocational streams (either through
secondary level vocation training programs or in polytechnics and community colleges). The
long-term focus will be on development of ICT human resources to deal with more advanced
technical needs (e.g. network design and management, communications system design and
implementation, advanced technologies). The sub-component will support implementation of the
computer science education programs in institutions of higher education by facilitating
development of institutional computer networks. Special emphasis will be given implementation
of distance learning capabilities in the post secondary educational institutions, ICT technical and
vocational training centers, strengthening of the Telecom Training Institute's ICT and
value-added-services training programs, and creation of centers of excellence for ICT education.
Other activities will include on-going training programs in technical management and support of
institutional information systems, computer programming, hardware maintenance and support,
applications development training. This sub-component will also support strengthening of
training facilities and infrastructure, particularly in the major geo-political Regions of the country.

To exploit fully the potential of ICTs as facilitators of development, the local languages must be
recognized as the primary medium of exchange and delivery of information in Ethiopia. The Local
language Content Development sub-component will assist the development of local content in
the priority sectors, and will support development of appropriate solutions for the dissemination
of information in the major local languages. The sub-component will support local language
content development centers, to enable them to prepare radio programs and local language
documents for on-line dissemination in health, education and rural development sectors. These
local centers will be strengthened by addition of three or more new regional facilities for the
development of local language content in print, audio, video, multimedia and other appropriate
formats. This sub-component will also support local and national efforts to document, share and
disseminate appropriate indigenous knowledge (IK) in a systematic manner for health, agriculture,
local governance and other areas. The project will support sector activities aiming at the
integration of appropriately documented local knowledge into education curricula and services in
agriculture health and other, yet to be determined sectors.

The ICT Private Sector Development (Technology Park / incubator) sub-component will
foster a more direct participation of the private sector in all ICT related aspects by creating

                                                   4
                                                                                                   ISDS


opportunities for their growth in the Information Technology (IT) sector. To this end, a study will
be carried out in close collaboration with the private sector to identify their needs, the bottlenecks
for ICT sector growth. The objective is to identify opportunities for a more active participation of
private sector companies in the ICT sector, both locally as well as internationally. Additionally an
ICT market assessment and growth opportunity analysis will be carried out, including the
assessment of training and human resource needs and a capacity assessment of the private sector.
Specific activities will be designed for creating business opportunities for the private sector to
strengthen its ICT capacity by direct involvement in ICT activities through the establishment of a
Technology Park / incubator that will provide technology-enhanced support systems to private
sector companies. Other activities will support the strengthening of the private sector's capacity
for use and maintenance of locally adapted technologies . This sub-component will also support
initiatives for increasing opportunities for women and youth to participate in ICT related
businesses or training opportunities.

An important objective of the Government's development program is to increase connectivity and
to provide access to communications services throughout the country. International experience
suggests that the expansion of communications network is strongly correlated with economic
growth, and that access to communications in rural areas diminishes the urban/rural economic
disparities, provides access to market information, and facilitates service delivery in health,
education and other areas thereby reinforcing the poverty reduction contribution of ICTs. The
Connectivity / Access sub-component will build on this objective of the government by
facilitating the creation of public/private partnerships between ETC and qualified cooperatives
and/or private sector groups to offer community level connectivity and access to the national
telecommunications and ICT services, using ETC's national backbone infrastructure. This
sub-component would facilitate the creation of public/private partnerships between ETC as a
wholesaler of communications network infrastructure and services, and community based and/or
qualified local private sector groups that could act as community based operators or re-sellers for
retail sales of communications services, using ETC's backbone infrastructure for connecting to
the national communications network. This sub-component would create a win-win situation for
all key stakeholders: the communities will benefit by having access to national communications
infrastructure, information, etc.; local and regional economies could benefit from the information
flow and access to market information that this will bring about; ETA will strengthen its capacity
through "learning by doing" by tackling a series of real-world regulatory issues that it must
manage skillfully in order to make rural connectivity in Ethiopia a reality; ETC will also benefit
from a scalable business model that promises to create new revenue streams for ETC through
increased traffic on the backbone, interconnection charges and provision of technical services.

Component 3. Institutional Development

The Institutional Development component will support specific institutional capacity building
activities for the key ICT policy and regulatory agencies. These include capacity building support
for the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority (EICTDA); and for ETA to become a more
effective regulatory agency. ETA's capabilities will also be strengthened in Frequency Spectrum
Management and in providing advisory services on sector reform options to allow rapid growth of
ICTs. This component will also provide support to ETC's capacity building to become a more

                                                    5
                                                                                                  ISDS


efficient operator in its areas of core competency, and will assist ETC in the transfer of certain
value added services to the private sector. Specific activities include supporting institutional
capacity building for the Ethiopian ICT Development Authority; strengthening of an independent
telecom regulatory authority; instituting an effective spectrum management system; encouraging
and facilitating (through comprehensive assessments and studies) the development of an
appropriate national communication infrastructure and provision of sufficient bandwidth for data
and multimedia; Increasing awareness among policy makers and community leaders on the
significant role that ICTs can play as enablers for improved governance and service delivery.

Component 4. ICT-Assisted Service Delivery Pilots

A salient feature of the Government's ICT Capacity Building program is that it is anchored in, and
driven by, the national development objectives in priority sectors. Therefore, an integral part of
the project is to include implementation of selected ICT-assisted interventions in health,
education, agriculture, public sector service delivery, and private sector development.

The ICT-assisted Service Delivery Pilots component is carefully designed to support already
existing programs in priority sectors to ensure maximum alignment with the sector priorities and
development objectives as set forth in the PRSP, sector development programs, and the CAS.
Community ownership and buy-in will be critical for the success of these activities. Therefore,
awareness raising workshops, initial needs assessments, and stakeholder and beneficiary
consultation workshops have been carried out during the design phase to determine the relevance
and sustainability of these initiatives. The studies have assessed the communities' information and
communication needs, potential impact of ICT-enhanced services on the local economy, and the
commitment of community leaders to support these initiatives. These ICT-enhanced activities will
introduce appropriate technologies through specific interventions to improve the effectiveness and
impact of sector programs.

The choice of the appropriate ICT-assisted interventions will therefore heavily depend on their
relevance to the corresponding sector objectives, as well as the long term sustainability, and
impact of the selected interventions. Examples of ICT-assisted sector interventions include:

   l Improving performance of agriculture and rural development efforts through use of ICT
        assisted farmer training, access to markets and market information, input supply, weather,
        early warning systems, food security, extension, agricultural research, and use of local
        knowledge;
   l Improving performance of education and health efforts and projects through use of ICT
        based distance learning, information access, information sharing, access to health services,
        integration of traditional and modern health service providers, and community access
        centers;
   l Increasing participation of the private sector in the development of ICTs in Ethiopia as
        service providers, and as producers or suppliers of equipment, content, technical know
        how, and methodologies, as well as promoters of e-commerce.
   l Exploring options for improvement of service delivery, governance, and transparency
        through the planned public sector networks that will be funded by other operations and

                                                   6
                                                                                                 ISDS


        resources (AgriNet, GovNet, WoredaNet, SchoolNet, etc).

The funding for sector applications will be pooled, with appropriate sector allocations to be
determined as necessary during appraisal.

Component 5. Monitoring and Evaluation, Learning system, and Project Administration

Most poverty reduction interventions (schools, health clinics, agricultural development programs
and social services) depend on communications and information exchange for their effective
delivery. Provision of adequate communications capabilities, particularly when adapted to local
circumstances and needs, also encourages the poor to participate in economic activities and social
and political processes. Therefore, the Monitoring and Evaluation, and Learning System
component will support baseline studies to:

        (a)     measure the level of increased beneficiary access to public and private services;
        (b)     measure the increase in effective use of such services;
        (c)     identify a set of monitoring indicators for ICT-assisted sector interventions;
        (d)     develop an empirical basis for evaluation of the impact of ICT investments on
        urban and rural                  development and poverty alleviation; and
        (e)     assess the role of ICTs in poverty alleviation, with particular focus on gender
        equity.

Establishing an effective M&E program and a robust learning system are considered as key
activities under this project for the following reasons:

    1. The inter-dependent nature of the planned activities under each of the four pillars of the
    ICT program is such that to achieve the program objectives, a series of asynchronous
    activities must be carried out in parallel. The complexity of managing the interdependencies
    and the sequencing needed, requires a very effective monitoring system throughout the
    implementation process

    2. The interdependencies also imply that successful implementation of the project requires a
    robust learning and knowledge sharing system. All key stakeholders must be very clear about
    the project's goals and how to measure progress and success, and be constantly aware of the
    status of each program. The team must evaluate the progress and impact of each activity, and
    make the necessary adjustments to ensure that project activities remain responsive to the
    changing needs while remaining consistent with the program objectives. This is particularly
    important where the activities are to inform or guide future policy and investment decisions in
    ICT-assisted Development.

An indicative project cost estimate is provided below (tentative):


Components:

                                                        7
                                                                                                          ISDS


Creating an enabling policy, legal and regulatory environment
ICT capacity Building
Institutional development
ICT-assisted sector programs
M&E, Learning Systems and Administration


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Nationwide


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No significant safeguard issues and impacts are associated with this project.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)

                                                      8
                                                                                                           ISDS


N/A

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

It is expected that there will be no major environmental issues. This project will assist Ethiopia in
developing a favorable environment for the growth of ICTs, and would not involve any major construction
or other activities adversely affecting the environment.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
A series of consultation workshops with various stakeholders and beneficiaries are planned as part of
project preparations. A consultation workshop with over 130 representatives from Federal, Regional and
Local Government representatives, various line ministries, NGOs and CSOs, local community
organizations, private sector groups, academic institutions, donors and other partners was carried out in
May, 2003. Additional consultations were carried out with about 40 private sector representatives. A
donors meeting was also held in May 2003, and it was agreed that donor consultations would be carried out
on a regular basis throughout the project preparation process. Additional consultations with are scheduled.
These consultations will inform the formulation of the necessary social assessment and analytical work that
needs to inform the next steps of the project preparations.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
          projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
          issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected           Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected           Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected           Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

                                                     9
                                                                                                    ISDS


Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. N/A

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Bobak Rezaian                                      02/09/04




Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomas E. Walton                                        02/09/04
Comments




Sector Manager/Director               Nicolas M. Gorjestani                              02/09/04
Comments

