Document of
The World Bank                               I        3
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4082-RW
RWANDA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD IDA CREDIT TO THE
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
March 1, 1983
FIllE COPY
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.0          = RwF 91.91
RwF 1.0          = US$0.010880
RwF 1.0 million = US$ 10,880
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNR       Banque Nationale du Rwanda - Central Bank
BRD       Banque Rwandaise de D6veloppement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CDI       Centre de Developpement Industriel
DEG       Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EDF       European Development Fund
KfW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbrau
MINECOM   Ministere de l'Economie et du Commerce
MAGERWA   Magasins Generaux du Rwanda
SMEs      Small and Medium Enterprises
SOMIRWA   Societe des Mines du Rwanda
SSEs      Small Scale Enterprises
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
(BRD)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.   THE ENVIRONMENT ......................................   1
A.  The Industrial Sector        ..1............... 
Characteristics and Past Performance .............  1
Industrial Policy ..................                    2
Sector Issues       .........................           5
IDA's Strategy       ........................           5
B.  The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector ................  6
C. The Financial Sector                 .        .          9
II.   THE INSTITUTION ..........      ...........................  11
A.  Institutional Aspects    .       ....................  11
Background ....................................... 11
BRD's Objectives and Role              .      .     11
Share Capital and Ownership            . .    12
Board of Directors                 .        .     12
Management, Organization and Staffing ............   12
Operating Policies and Procedures          .    .      14
BRD and SSEs ..................................... 17
B.  Operations        .......................................  19
Portfolio ........................................ 20
Financial Results and Conditions          .     .      21
Resources .......................................  . 23
C.  Prospects ........................................ 23
BRD's Strategy ...................................  23
Projects Pipeline                 .         .     24
Financial Forecasts .............................. 24
Resource Requirements ............................  25
III.   THE PROJECT ................................. 26
A.  The First Two IDA Credits to BRD         ..   26
B.  Objectives of the Proposed Third IDA Credit ..         27
C.  Description of the Project.                            27
Line of Credit to BRD   .            .27
SSE Study Component          .        .29
D.  Project Costs and Financing    .         .30
E. Project Implementation .               .                31
F. Benefits and Risks   .               .32
IV.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED ............... 33
This document has a ratricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be discloed without World bank authorization.



I



RWANDA
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
(BRD)
Annex No.                                                                          Page No.
1. RWANDA - Structure of Interest Rates                          .        .          34
2.   BRD     - Distribution of Share Capital December 31, 1981                        35
3. BRD   - Borrowings as of December 31, 1981   .                      .36
4.  BRD      - Summary Income Statements 1977-1981.                                   37
5. BRD   - Summary Balance Sheets 1977-1981   .                      .38
6. BRD  - Past Financial Ratios    ..39
7. BRD   - Projected Operations, 1983-1985                         .       .         40
8.  BRD      - Projected Income Statements 1983-1985                   .     .        41
9. BRD   - Projected Balance Sheets, 1983-1985                        .      .       42
10.  BRD       - Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1983-1985  ..    43
11.  BRD      - Projected Financial Ratios, 1983-1985                   .     .        44
12. BRD   - Schedule of Disbursements    .                        .45
13.  BRD       - Terms of Reference for the SSE study    .               .46
This report is based upon the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. Emile Sawaya, Chuong Phung and William Whitesell (consultant),
which visited Rwanda in April 1982.



I



- i -
BANQUE  RWANDAISE  DE  DEVELOPPEMENT
BASIC DATA
Year of Establishment    1967
Ownership : (as of December 31, 1981)
Authorized Capital : RwF 1,000 million
Distribution of Paid-In Capital
RwF million        %
Government and Other Public Institutions                      539.0          61.6
Domestic Private Sector                                       129.7          14.8
Foreign Institutions (CCCE, DEG, Belgian                      206.2          23.6
Government and Bank of Tokyo)
Total                                                   874.9         100.0
Resource Position (as of December 31, 1981)
RwF million
Local   Foreign      Total
Sources
Share Capital, Reserves and Special Funds          1,051.5         -    1,051.5
Foreign Borrowings                                    63.0   1,065.0   1,128.0
Government and Central Bank                          126.2   1,000.0   1,126.2
Total Resources                              1,240.7   2,065.0   3,305.7
Uses'
Net Fixed Assets                                   101.1        -       101.1
Loan and Equity Portfolio                          605.2      769.5   1,374.7
Total Uses                                     706.3      769.5   1,475.8
Resources Available for Disbursement                 534.4   1,295.5   1,829.9
Undisbursed Commitments                                6.0      756.7      762.7
Resources Available for Commitment                   528.4      538.8   1,067.2
Uncommitted Approvals                                  -         10.0       10.0
Construction of the New Building                     435.0        -       435.0
Resources Available for Approvals                     93.4      528.8      622.2
Approvals (RwF million)                        1978     1979      1980      1981
Agriculture and Livestock                       1.3     93.2        -        1.5
Agro-industry                                165.2      13.6    211.0        -
Manufacturing Industries                     195.0    190.8    254.5         8.6
Hotels and Tourism                             6.0       -        28.5       5.0
Transport                                      -                   -       160.0
Commerce                                       -         -       160.0    252.0
Other                                          -         4.8       -         -
Total                                   367.5    302.4    654.0    427.1



- ii -
Operating Results (RwF million)               1978      1979      1980      1981
Gross Income                                  60.3      88.5    121.5    141.2
Administrative Expenses                       24.5      31.3      34.9      50.4
Financial Charges                             10.4      16.8      24.4      26.3
Depreciation                                   5.1       7.1       8.8       8.6
Provisions                                     5.7      15.6       7.3       9.0
Net: Profit                                   14.6      17.7      46.1      46.7
Net: Profit/Average Net Worth (%)              4.1       4.0       7.5       5.2
Net Profit/Year End Paid-in Share Capital   4.3          4.2       7.6       5.3
Financial Position (RwF million)
Net Worth                                    387.7    490.9    736.9  1,050.8
Total Assets                                 794.9  1,171.1  1,327.8  1,746.0
Term Debt/Equity                                1.10     1.30      0.73      0.67
Interest Rates.  (These rates were agreed with BRD during negotiations and
prevail unless a different rate is specified by lender).
Medium term loans       Long term loans
(1 to 4 years)      (more than 4 years)
Agriculture and Livestock                    10% p.a.             11% p.a.
Industry and Mining                          11% p.a.             12% p.a.
Services                                     12% p.a.             13% p.a.
Commissions and Fees: A commission of 0.75% on loan amount plus a
commitment fee of 1% per year on undisbursed amounts.
Status of IDA II (Credit 896-RW)
Credit Account : US$5.2 million, of which US$0.2 million to finance a
feasibility study for the establishment of an audit firm
in Rwanda.
Date of Effectiveness : January 4, 1980.
Amount Authorized under Credit Component : US$5.0 million.
Amount Committed: (as of January 31, 1983)  : US$4.1 million.
Amount Disbursed: (as of January 31, 1983) : US$1.1 million.
Foreign Exchange Risk : Borne by Government.
Closing Date            : June 30, 1983.
Free Limit              : US$200,000.



I. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. The I]ndustrial Sector
Characteristics and Past Performance
1.01      Industry in Rwanda is the largest sector after agriculture,
accounting for 17% of GDP in 1980, but is still small by world or African
standards, with value added estimated at US$200 million in 1980. Although
the sector includes mining, manufacturing is the dominant activity, with a
share of 90% of the sector's value added.  The main production is of
consumer goods, particularly food and beverages, textiles, shoes and a few
household goods. The processing of such agricultural products as coffee
and tea is also important and contributes a large proportion of the
country's foreign exchange earnings: 56% of total export receipts in 1980.
Mining, which in Rwanda is largely for cassiterite and wolfram is dominated
by one company, SOMIRWA (Societ£ des Mines du Rwanda), which is partly
owned by the Government and includes several thousand artisan miners who
sell their production to SOMIRWA (para. 3.02). Until recently the
concentrated ore used to be exported unprocessed. A new tin processing
plant has been built, but the start of its production has been hampered by
technical problems. Cassiterite and wolfram accounted for about 19% of
total exports in 1980.
1.02      During the period 1976--1980, manufacturing industry experienced a
growth rate of 8.5% p.a. in real terms, as compared to an average 7.1% p.a.
projected for the Second Plan (1976-1981), and its share in GDP increased
from 12.3% in 1976 to 15.3% in 1980. Except for transport and
communications, which is a far smaller sector (2.1% of GDP), manufacturing
was the fastest growing sector. During this same period, mining contracted
by 2.3% p.a. largely due to decreasing productivity resulting from
increasing difficulties because of dwindling surface deposits and the older
equipment which needs to be replaced. As can be seen from the above, the
performance of the manufacturing sector relative to other sectors is
impressive when one considers the border problems that Rwanda faced,
particularly in 1979, which affected the manufacturing sector especially
adversely because of the interruption of inputs, spare parts, and other
supplies.
1.03      The characteristics of the manufacturing sector remain
essentially the same as those of a few earlier years. Manufacturing
activity has become somewhat more diversified with the establishment of
such new factories as plastic utensils and packaging, corrugated iron
sheets, candy and soap, etc. Except for the large brewery, there are about
100 relatively small but modern enterprises in Rwanda. Employment in
manufacturing was estimated at about 35,000 in 1980, or 1.3% of the total
active population, but 18.7% of the total engaged in non-agricultural
activity. About one-third of those engaged in manufacturing are salaried
employees and the remainder are either independent artisans or family
units.  Food manufacturing continues to dominate industrial activity,
accounting for about two-thirds of the value added in 1980. This
sub-sector remains largely traditional and artisanal although there have



- 2 -
been some attempts to modernize some traditional processes such as the
production of banana beer and wine. Manufacturing of such products as
textiles, shoes, and other consumer items accounted for about one-fourth of
the value added in 1980. Most manufacturing activity is centered around
Kigali, the capital, although some towns in the regions are becoming more
active and important. Most manufacturing enterprises are privately owned,
with foreign ownership limited to some modern enterprises.  Government
ownership is significant only in a few large enterprises.
1.04      Available data indicate that annual investment in current terms
increased from RwF 800 million in 1977 to about RwF 1200 million in 1980,
but: in real terms this increase is minimal. The main factors that continue
to favor such investment are the unexploited local opportunities in either
import substitution or in processing of local materials for export, the
rapidly increasing transportation costs that give locally produced goods an
advantage, Rwanda's political stability relative to its neighbors, and a
relatively open economy.
1.05      The growth of industry in general and of manufacturing industry
in particular continues to be affected by long existing constraints.
Firstly, the domestic market is small, the per capita income is low and the
possibility of exporting to neighboring countries is limited, but is
improving slowly. Secondly, investment costs are high, largely due to the
high transportation costs and the long time required for imports to arrive
which necessitates holding large stocks of inputs and spare parts.
Finally, the shortage of skilled manpower and the deficiencies of the
infrastructure discourage investors.
Industrial Policy
1.06      Rwanda's industrial policy attempted over the years to establish
a framework within which the somewhat limited potential of the sector can
be achieved, mainly through the efforts of the private sector. The policy
gives priority to those industries that use local raw materials, some of
whicah for export, are labor intensive, and substitute for imports. Except
for a few large projects, where the required resources are relatively
large, the Government has not actively invested in this sector, but has
adopted measures that were intended to encourage and facilitate private
investment (para. 1.09). However, when it has invested, the Government has
generally made good decisions on projects, often with private sector
participation. Because Rwanda's land-locked location and the high
transport costs provide significant advantages to domestic industry,
particularly that which is based on local resources, the Government did not
have to resort to a deliberate protection policy. Quantitative import
restrictions are not generally used; the structure of tariffs, which aims
primarily at generating revenues, does not provide unusually high
protection and the trade and foreign exchange regulations do not function
as a barrier.



1.07      To encourage industry, the Government has decided upon several
measures, the most important of which are:
(i) The investment code, first adopted in 1964, was revised in 1977
to extend the provisions to Rwandese investors. The revised
code provides firms, whose share capital is RwF 10 million or
more, under certain conditions, with an exemption from or
reduction in the rates of customs duties and taxes, on imported
capital goods, spare parts and inputs, as well as from taxes on
profits for at least five years. It also permits the
beneficiary enterprises to open bank accounts in foreign
exchange either in Rwanda or overseas, and gives them the right
to repatriate profits and capital.  The Code also includes
provisions that would extend to certain priority enterprises
protection in the form of either higher tariffs or quantiy
restrictions on competing imports, or reserves a certain share
of public sector contracts to eligible firms. The incentive
provisions of the code have been granted to a few firms, but
the protection provision has reportedly been granted only to
one firm. Apart from the procedures which the Government
intends to streamline and improve (para. 1.10) and the limited
applicability of the investment code to SSEs (para. 1.18), the
investment code appears to be satisfactory and suitable as an
instrument for promoting industrial investment in Rwanda.
(ii) An industrial park on a site close to Kigali that provides
serviced land to industrialists was completed in 1978. This
park which was financed by FED contains about 10 enterprises
and is likely to be fully occupied soon;
(iii) A bureau for the promotion of industry under a UNDP/UNIDO
project was established in 1977. This project has been revised
several times and the bureau was fully staffed only recently.
One of the bureau's main objectives is the development of
industrial projects in Rwanda;
(iv) A special guarantee fund was started in 1978 to provide special
guarantees to small enterprises on loans they obtain from
participating financial institutions. The problems that this
fund is suffering from are described in paragraphs 1.19 and
1.20; and
(v) Regional cooperation, which includes a joint commission with
Burundi that has not operated effectively, and the Economic
Community of the Great Lakes which provides a framework for
economic cooperation between Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire through
regional bodies such as the regional development bank.



- 4 -
1.08      The industrial sector is also subject to the Government's price
control policy, which aims at regulating price movements through control of
profit margins, whose maximum is set at 15% at the wholesale level and at
25% at the retail level for both imported and locally produced goods.
Since transportation costs are added to either the f.o.b. price of imports
or to the cost of locally produced goods, the differences between the
control prices of any commodity in the various parts of the country
reflects the differences in transportation costs. The success of the price
control system in containing increases in consumer prices has been limited,
because of the limited number of price inspectors (one per region). Since
there has been no reports of the Government denying any justified price
increases to domestic industry, this system does not appear to be an
obstacle to the development of this sector. The systems of foreign
exchange control and trade regulations are operated less for control
purposes and more for ensuring that the country's foreign exchange earnings
are allocated in accordance with priorities, which emphasize essential
imports and the needs of development projects and as such they do not
constitute impediments to the development of industry.
1.09      The third plan (1982-1986) recommends pursuing the same policies,
objectives, and strategy as the second plan. The objectives for the
industrial sector will be to increase the production of basic goods either
for consumption by the population or for use in agriculture and to process
further and more of the agricultural and mineral products to provide the
maximum possible employment to compensate for the limited opportunities in
the rural sector. The projected rates of growth are 6.7% p.a. for
manufacturing industry and 5.6% p.a. for mining. The strategy would aim at
(i) integrating as closely as possible industrial investment with the
natural resources and agricultural products of the country; (ii)
decentralizing industry to reduce rural emigration and to better utilize
resource endowments; and (iii) further promoting regional cooperation, in
the context of the Great Lakes Economic Community. The third plan does not
however provide a specific program for promoting industrial development in
Rwanda. It places special emphasis upon the initiative of the private
domestic sector for the development of what by necessity should be largely
small-scale industrial investments. Most of the proposals included in the
plan are institutional in nature and relate to areas where the plan has
identified the need for either reforms or modifications such as the reform
of the special guarantee fund (para. 1.20), the rejuvenation of the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry, the organization of the artisans into
cooperatives, and the creation of a national technology center.  Other
measures include: (i) the promotion of medium- and small-scale industry
through various means, including a more responsive financial system;
(ii) the creation of new industrial zones, starting with the main one near
the airport in Kigali; (iii) the training of the necessary manpower,
including skilled workers, technicians, professionals and managers;
(iv) the preparation of a project pipeline (para. 1.07); and (v) the
simplification of procedures relating to the investment code. These
policies, apart from those affecting SSEs which are discussed later,
appear to be largely suitable in view of the present situation in Rwanda.



-5-
Sector Issues
1.10      There are two issues that need to be addressed if the development
of the industrial sector is not to be hampered. Firstly, the procedures
that govern applications under the investment code and the granting of
incentives that are provided under it should be simplified. Also, given
the role that SSEs are expected to play in the development of industry in
Rwanda, the code should be reviewed to determine what incentives could and
should be provided to SSEs. A full review of the investment code is
planned by the Government and will be carried out by its agencies.  The
technical assistance included in this project will help in the part
relating to SSEs. Secondly, there is need to strengthen and improve the
capacity to prepare projects. The Bureau for Industrial Promotion (para.
1.07[iii]) will help in this regard. It is starting to develop some
projects, but it is too early to judge the usefulness of its work. The
effort to identify and develop projects is also likely to benefit from the
IDA-financed technical assistance project, as well as in some instances
from the BUNEP, the autonomous Bureau for projects set up under the
auspices of the Ministry of Plan.
IDA's Strategy
1.11    IDA's strategy in the industrial sector has evolved gradually over
the years, from a purely institution-building effort to the establishment
of a basis for a meaningful policy dialogue with the Government on issues
which influence overall sector performance.  Under the first two IDA
credits, the main objective was to help BRD develop into a strong financial
institution. That objective is now largely achieved. BRD is strong
financially and has relatively experienced staff. With this third IDA
credit, a new phase begins whereby IDA will assist BRD and Government in
starting a concerted effort to assist SSEs, while continuing to
strengthen BRD under a new management. An IDA consultant has provided BRD
and the Government with help in preparing the SSE component of this project
and a mission under the World Bank - UNIDO Cooperative program undertook a
review of the SSE/artisan sector. These form the basis for efforts to
reorient BRD's operations and increase its lending to SSEs, and for the
assistance provided under the project to help Government develop a national
SSE development program that could possibly be assisted by a future SSE
project. Finally, IDA will be joining efforts with other UN Agencies in
helping Government establish regional institutions and define more clearly
the potential for regional cooperation in the field of industry. First,
IDA is the executing agency for the technical assistance provided by UNDP
to the Development Bank of the Great Lakes Community (Burundi, Rwanda and
Zaire).   Second, through several sector missions IDA will help assess
the possibilities of regional markets and the problems and prospects of
industrial development in Rwanda, Burundi and Eastern Zaire. The first of
these missions will cover Rwanda and Burundi and will complement a



- 6 -
study planned by UNCTAD on harmonization of tariffs and fiscal policy among
countries of the Great Lakes Community. It will also attempt to assess the
role and contribution of industry to the long term development of Rwanda,
given the need for diversification to reduce the economy's extreme
dependence on coffee and the high and increasing level of unemployment.
The sector mission has been scheduled to follow the publication of Rwanda's
Third Development Plan (1982-1986). This will provide an opportunity for
assessing the implications of the proposed industrial investment program
and its impact on Rwanda's economic and financial prospects during this
period.
B. The Small-Scale Enterprise Sector
1.1L2     Rwanda has no reliable or consistent data about the number of
SSEs and their employment, investment, output, etc. Generally, SSEs
can be found in fishing, dairy, poultry, grain milling, bakeries,
garment-making, brick-and tile-making, wood and metal products as well as
such services as auto repair.
1.13      Before an appropriate nationwide SSE development program can be
devised there is need for gathering more reliable information on this
sector, through a comprehensive survey. As the Government may not possess
the necessary resources to undertake such a task, the proposed project will
help in this respect by providing the necessary funds to finance consultant
services and the local costs of the survey.
1.14      There are several institutions assisting and dealing with SSEs
and artisans in Rwanda. The Ministry of National Economy (MINECON) is the
primary Government agency and its Directorate of Artisanat has the main
responsibility. The Director has a total staff of six in Kigali and three
in each of seven regional centers. There are plans to open new centers in
the three remaining regions of the country. The headquarters staff deal
with policy and organizational matters, while the regional staff assist
SSEs and artisans with marketing and management. This Directorate will
have the services of an expert from the UNIDO team (para. 1.07[iii]) to
help develop investment proposals and provide technical assistance in four
priority areas initially: brick-making, carpentry, agriculture and
blacksmithing.
1.15      MINECON and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Cooperatives
have sponsored a marketing agency -- ASPAR (Association pour la Promotion
de l'Artisanat Rwandais), which began operations in 1977, but has not shown
signs of success. ASPAR collects the products from throughout the country,
with the assistance of the above-mentioned regional centers.  ASPAR seems
better suited for artisans than for SSEs.



1 .16     Training in management for SSEs is provided by TRAFIPRO, a
parastatal; the Ecole d'Art at Nyundo trains in painting and sculpture;
the Centre National de Petit Elevage in raising poultry, pigs, and rabbits;
and the Ecole Technique de Kicukiro in technical areas. There is no
effective training in accounting for SSEs.
1.17      Access to credit for SSEs in Rwanda is not well organized or
developed. Short-term credit to SSEs, mainly for commerce, transport and
construction is provided to a limited extent by the commercial banks and
the parastatal Caisse d'Epargne.  Term loans are provided mainly by BRD and
the Banques Populaires, a decentralized cooperative rural banking program,
more akin to credit unions, which began in 1975 with Swiss aid (para.
1.26). In addition, there is a Fonds de Developpement Communal (FDC),
under the Ministry of Interior, which was established in 1977 to provide
grants, loans, and guarantees to local Governments (Communes), of which
there are 143 in Rwanda. The FDC has financed a few projects such as
brick-making, carpentry, metal workshops, garages, and bakeries. FDC's
resources amount to about RwF 100 million. It has already paid RwF 33
million on guarantees it has issued.
1.18      Aside from the special guarantee fund (para. 1.19), SSEs appear
to be at a disadvantage relative to larger enterprises. To have access to
the advantages offered by the Investment Code, a firm must have a share
capital of at least RwF 10 million, which in the case of Rwanda implies
that the vast majority if not all SSEs would in practice be excluded.
Government's procurement policies and practices do not favor SSEs through
preferences, reserved shares or products, or partitioning of large
contracts into smaller lots which could be handled by SSEs. There are no
reliable studies or information about the impact of protection and price
controls on SSEs.
1.19      The special guarantee fund was the major measure that Government
has adopted to favor SSEs in the last few years. This fund was set up in
1978 to help enterprises which are unable to meet normal security
requirements to obtain bank loans. Contributions to the Fund come from a
10% levy on the pre-tax profits of participating institutions. Until
recently, only the two commercial banks have been participating and the
total of the resources that they have contributed is about RwF 100 million,
which should allow the issuance of guarantees totalling about RwF I
billion. The guarantee is limited to 80% of the loan. To obtain a
guarantee, a request must be submitted, accompanied with a substantial
amount of documentation to an interministerial committee, chaired by the
Director General of Industry at MINECON. This fund has not been effective
because of its demanding and cumbersome procedures. The commercial banks
have not used it often because of their reluctance to carry the residual
risk and the high administrative costs associated with small loans. Partly
because this fund has been ineffective, with only a handful of guarantees
issued in four years, the Ministry of Agriculture has set up a separate
guarantee scheme to be run by the Banques Populaires. BRD recently
joined the fund but also established its own scheme (para. 2.23) to
guarantee small projects of less than RwF 500,000 which it does not intend
to submit to the special fund.



- 8 -
1.20      While there may be merit in these separate schemes, there is need
to ensure that an effective SSE guarantee program is available to all
financial institutions.  The resources already set aside should not remain
idle as at present. The Government is now attempting to revitalize the
special guarantee fund and is envisaging to introduce a number of measures
to ensure that: (i) all participants have equal access to the funds and to
the same extent; (ii) access to the fund's guarantee is close to automatic
by better and clearer criteria that define and describe applicants;
(iii) documentation is simple and easy for SSEs to provide (iv) claims only
are subject to review by a high-level committee; and (v) payment of claims
are limited to a given percentage (e.g., 80%) of the amount outstanding, or
up to a maximum of the value of the guarantee issued to keep participating
institutions interested in pursuing recovery of arrears.
1.21      SSE Potential and Development Strategy.  The constraints on SSE
development in Rwanda include limitations in available technical and
management know-how, insufficient knowledge of the available resources and
opportunities and, the lack of active support by financial institutions.
The limited size of the local market is not as much of a constraint for
SSEs as for larger industries. There are indications that the potential
may be considerable. A mission under the World Bank/UNIDO cooperative
program and the resident UNIDO team working at MINECON have identified
several areas for further investigation of investment potential. These
include improved bricks, concrete blocks and tiles, agricultural tools,
food production and processing, etc. Also, BRD has received in recent
years requests for financing many SSEs which it did not look into for
various reasons, including shortage of staff.  The range of activities is
as dliverse as the one cited above.   These requests have averaged about
RwF100 million per year, or more than three times the average level of
BRD's SSE loan approvals in recent years. If BRD had been more
forithcoming, it is likely that the level of requests may have been
substantially higher. Thus, though there are several obstacles to
surmount, the development potential for SSEs in Rwanda is significant.
1.22      The Government has not developed a coherent plan for the
promotion -f SSEs.  There are several expressions of support for SSEs, as
in the third plan but because of the lack of resources there are no
specific policy or strategy recommendations. The most concrete
recommendation, that of building industrial estates for SSEs is of doubtful
value, since SSEs' need for centralized locations and their capacity to pay
economic rents for such facilities have not been established.
Consequently, BRD's attempt to launch a new intensive effort to promote and
finance SSEs promises to be a breakthrough, which both Government and IDA
could use to lay the foundation for a nationwide program (paras.
2.18-2.25). IDA could assist Goverment in carrying out the study that has
been identified as a priority (paras. 1.13 and 1.18). The objective of the
study should be the identification of the institutional and policy
framework of an SSE development program. It should include:



-9-
(i)  preparation of a thorough survey of SSEs to be carried out by
Government;
(ii)  review of Government policy affecting SSEs as manifested in
the investment code, procurement policies and procedures,
product standards, price controls, company law, etc., with the
objective of recommending changes in those areas unfavorable to
SSEs; and
(iii)  assessment of the adequacy of existing training facilities and
extension services (technical assistance) available to SSEs
in technical, accounting, marketing and management, and
determination of additional requirements.
C. The Financial Sector
1.23      Rwanda's financial system consists of the following institutions:
the central bank, two commercial banks, the development bank (BRD), the
Banques Populaires, the Savings Association, and the Caisse Hypoth6caire.
The headquarters of these institutions are in Kigali but some of them have
branches in a few other locations, particularly some of the regional towns.
There is also the regional development bank of the Great Lake countries,
which is responsible for financing regional-type projects in many sectors.
1.24      The central bank (Banque Nationale du Rwanda - BNR) supervises
the country's financial institutions, formulates the monetary and credit
policies, and manages the country's international reserves. BNR has at its
disposal several tools to influence credit and monetary developments. In
the past, it frequently used credit ceilings either on an overall basis or
by sector, but recently it has more actively manipulated the structure and
the level of interest rates (para. 1.29), the intention being to redirect
investment awny from such sectors as housing to directly productive sectors
such as industry. BNR also requires that financial institutions granting
certain types of credit obtain its prior approval.  BNR is also the
Government's main banker and had prior to 1979 actively extended credit to
it. However, since then the Government's net position has improved and as
of December 31, 1981 was positive vis-a-vis the banking system. BNR also
continues to administer a flexible system of import licensing which permits
its selective control over the use of foreign exchange.
1.25      The two commercial banks (Banque Commerciale du Rwanda and Banque
de K4 ali, established in 1963 and 1966, respectively), are majority
foreign owned and managed. Together they had total assets of about RwF 9.7
billion at the end of 1981, of which RwF 7.8 billion were in deposits of
various types. Term deposits of one month or more at both banks accounted



- 10 -
for RwF 680 million, or about 9% of total deposits. The commercial banks
finance exports, particularly coffee, and imports, which is the main reason
why they accounted for 86% of the short-term credit. Their combined
medium- and long-term lending accounted for only 20% of the total
outstanding at December 31, 1981.
1.26      The development bank (Banque Rwandaise de Development - BRD) is
the most important term lending institution, accounting for 43% of the
total outstanding term credit at the end of 1981. BRD will be described in
more detail in the following chapters. The Savings Association is next in
importance; it provided 24% of total term credit at December 1981, as
compared to less than 5% in 1977. The Caisse Hypothgcaire, the mortgage
association which is supposed to be responsible for financing all housing
and building construction in Rwanda of a value of RwF 0.5 million or more,
is still relatively inactive. As a result commercial banks continue to
finance housing loans, with tacit official approval. The Banques
Populaires, a network of cooperative banks similar to credit unions, that
started operations in 1975 have increased rapidly in number and are
actively providing term credit in the rural areas; their combined share of
the total term credit was 4% in 1981. These banks have been very
successful in mobilizing savings from the rural areas. The total of their
deposits amounted to about RwF 700 million at the end of 1981.
1.27      Inflation.  Rwanda does not have a price index that would reflect
price movements on a country-wide basis, but rather an index for the city
of Kigali that reflects price developments, including those of imports.
Another index that includes price movements of local goods only in Kigali
is available, but is less meaningful. Most consumer prices are
controlled through maximum profit margins (para. 1.08). The enforcement of
price controls is reportedly not very effective because Government does not
have either the staff or the procedures to check on ro pliance.
1.28      In recent years, prices in Rwanda have been most influenced by
the seasonal fluctuations of crops, the frequent border closings with
Uganda, Rwanda's main transport link, which affected supplies, and the
movement of the Rwandese franc, which is linked to the US dollar,
vis-A-vis European currencies, where most of Rwanda's imports originate.
Thus after increasing by 7% in 1976, the general consumer price index
increased by an average of 13.5% p.a. in 1977 and 1978 and jumped to 15.8%
in 1979, a year in which there was a prolonged border closing with Uganda
and poor food crop harvests.  In 1980, inflation fell to 7.2% p.a.,
largely because of better harvests and the lack of transport problems,
combined with some appreciation in the US dollar. Continued good crops and
appreciation of the US dollar contributed to a continuation of a low
inflation trend in 1981, when the general price index is estimated to have
increased by about 7%. This situation is expected to deteriorate somewhat
over the next few years because lower coffee prices and expanded budgets
wil:L lead Government to incur deficits which it will finance from banks
with obvious pressure on prices. It is expected that inflation would
average about 9.5-10% over the next few years.



- 11 -
1.29      Interest rates are fixed by BNR, which put into effect a
substantial upward revision in November 1979. These rates remain
unchanged, with the exception of some minor modifications such as the
introduction of penalty interest on defaulters (Annex 1). This structure
of interest rates appears to be adequate now and the increase does not seem
to have had an adverse effect on the level of investment in Rwanda. The
maximum term deposit rates for periods between one month and one year vary
from 6% to 7% and range from 8% to 9.5% for savings of longer than one year
in duration. The lending rate for productive investments approved by BNR
is 11%. Other term loans carry rates of about 12% for medium-term loans
and 13% for long-term ones. In view of the inflation projected over the
next few years, this structure of interest rates, if maintained, should be
considered generally suitable for Rwanda.
II. THE INSTITUTION
A. Institutional Aspects
Background
2.01      The Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) was established in
1967 as a limited liability company to encourage the creation and
development of enterprises in Rwanda. In 1976, IDA granted BRD a credit of
US$4.0 million (Cr. 655-RW), which was followed by a second credit of
US$5.2 million in 1979 (Cr. 896-RW). IDA's main objectives have been to
help BRD become a strong development institution and to provide term
financing for sound productive investments. As of September 30, 1982,
about US$3.9 million had been committed under the second IDA credit.
Projects financed were essentially new operations as the country is still
at an early stage of development and were distributed over several economic
sectors. They were all judged to be viable, with financial rates of return
in most cases in excess of 15%. As the first credit has just been fully
disbursed, a Project Completion Report will be prepared in 1983.
BRD's Objectives and Role
2.02      BRD's main objectives are to finance the development of Rwandese
enterprises and promote the diversification of the country's economic
structure and a balanced regional distribution of investments. In
fulfilling its mission, BRD is authorized to grant term loans or guarantees
and make equity participation in enterprises. It can receive deposits from
enterprises it assists, administer any funds, issue notes, and borrow in
Rwanda or abroad. BRD is autonomous and its decisions are made on the
basis of the results of its own appraisal of the technical, financial and
economic merits of projects.



- 12 -
Share Capital and Ownership (Annex 2).
2.03      BRD's share capital consists of  A" shares which must account for
at least 55% of the total, and are reserved for the Government and public
Rwandese agencies and institutions, and B" shares for private and foreign
shareholders. There are no differences between the rights and privileges
of either category of shareholders. BRD has been very successful in
convincing its shareholders to put up new resources to strengthen its
capital base. In November 1980, the Board approved a fourth increase in
BRD's authorized capital from RwF 416 million to RwF 1 billion. RwF 37.1
million of the increase consisted of a stock dividend, while RwF 546.9
million was in new subscriptions, of which RwF 365.2 million (including a
RwF 75 million Government loan which was converted into equity) was
subscribed by "A" shareholders; the remaining RwF 181.7 million was
subscribed by "B" shareholders. As of January 31, 1983, RwF 488 million of
the increase of RwF 584 million was fully paid in. BRD expects the balance
to be paid in shortly. Ownership of. BRD's share capital is presently
distributed as follows: public sector 64.7%, domestic private sector
14.0%, and foreign institutions 21.3%.
Board of Directors
2.04      BRD's Board of Directors consists of 11 members, of whom six
represent the "A" shareholders (public sector), and five the "B"
shareholders. The President of the Republic appoints the Chairman of the
Board. The five directors for the "B" shareholders represent CCCE, DEG,
the Belgian Government, the two commercial banks, and SONARWA, the Rwandese
Insurance Company. The Board meets on a regular basis to determine BRD's
policy and to approve equity participations, guarantees and loans exceeding
RwF 3 million (para. 2.22). It also takes an active interest in seeing
that: BRD evolve as a sound development institution. Overall the Board's
performance is satisfactory.
Management, Organization and Staffing
2.05      Management.  In mid-July 1982, the Government appointed a new
Managing Director for BRD when the incumbent's third three-year term
expired. The New Managing Director is young, dynamic and competent.
Before coming to BRD he was Advisor to the President for Economic and
Social Affairs. He is also well known in the business and banking
community for having served as the chairman of the board of one of Rwanda's
two commercial banks. To manage BRD, he will be helped by two competent
expatriate experts: a Burundi national, who has been with BRD since 1973,
and a German national, who joined in 1975 under the auspices of German
assistance. The latter is in charge of investments and project



- 13 -
evaluation. Until May 1982, BRD had two other expatriate experts: a
technical/engineering advisor, also under German bilateral assistance, and
an economist/financial analyst financed by the Belgian Government.   Both
left at the expiration of their contract; the Belgian expert is expected to
be replaced shortly. Recently, BRD has approached the Centre de
Developpement Industriel (CDI) for assistance in preparation and evaluation
of SSE projects. CDI is, reportedly, favorable to the request.
2.06      Staffing and Training.  BRD's staff totals 67, of whom 23 are
professionals, including two expatriates.  The Rwandese professional staff
typically have formal training in economics, finance, business
administration, or social sciences. Most of them are university graduates
and have been with B1RD for some years. The staff is generally dedicated
and hard working.
2.07      BRD's training program relies mainly upon practical on-the-job
training although a number of professional staff has also benefitted from
specialized courses in project evaluation and financial management
organized by the Centre d'Etudes FinanciVres Economiques et Bancaires in
France (CEFEB) and EDI. BRD has a staffing plan based upon its own
projections of operations up to 1985. In 1983-84, it plans to recruit 6
new professionals to (i) reinforce the supervision service and the loan
collection unit which has been separated from the accounting services; and
(iii) staff the newly created SSE Division (para. 2.08).
2.08      Organization.  Since its establishment BRD's organization has
remained basically unchanged. It consists mainly of two Departments: (i)
The Investment Department which is responsible for project evaluation in
all its aspects, supervision, and provision of technical assistance to
enterprises assisted by BRD; and (ii) the Administration and Finance
Department which is responsible for disbursement and loan collection, as
well as for maintaining BRD's accounts and administering the local and
foreign resources. Until recently, these two departments did not have
managers so that all the staff reported directly to the Managing Director.
In the past, when BRD was small this fluid organization was suitable and
efficient, but with the rapid increase in the volume and complexity of
operations, BRD has become aware of the need to strengthen the top-level
management of the institution and equip it to better handle an increasing
level of more complex operations. In July 1982, therefore, BRD made the
following organizational changes:
(a) It created an SSE Division in the Investment Department
to be in charge of both appraisal and supervision of SSE
projects. This Division consists of two units, one for
agricultural projects and one for other small projects; at
present it has four professional staff but two more will
be recruited in the near future;



- 14 -
(b) It created a separate Disbursement and Loan Collection
Unit in the Administration and Finance Department. Until
now these functions were entrusted to the Accounting
Division; and
(c) It appointed managers for the Investment and
Administration and Finance Departments;
The above changes are timely and contribute to greater efficiency in
management and administration.
Operating Policies and Procedures
2.09      Policy Statement.  BRD's policy statement is satisfactory.  With
the changes proposed in paras. 2.10, 2.16 and 2.22 below to strengthen the
analysis of the economic impact of projects, to simplify the interest rate
structure, and to adapt some policies to SSEs, this statement would
constitute a sound basis for BRD's operations.
2.10      Appraisal.  BRD has made significant progress in improving the
quality and standard of its appraisal work, particularly the financial and
technical aspects. Projects are thoroughly analyzed and, in some cases,
redesigned during appraisal to make them more suitable to the Rwandese
economic and financial conditions. BRD's appraisal procedures have also
been reinforced and systematized. Appraisal reports prepared by the staff
are first reviewed and discussed within the Investment Department at the
Professional Staff Meeting (Reunion des Cadres), then presented to the
Studies Committee (Comite d'Etudes), which is chaired by the Managing
Director and composed of all the bank's senior staff, before being
submitted to the Board.  In contrast, the economic analysis of subprojects
is relatively weak and needs to be strengthened. Calculation of net
foreign exchange earnings/savings or the incremental value added is done in
an inconsistent way, while the economic rate of return is only estimated
for large import substitution projects. BRD has been asked to calculate
the economic rate of return for all non-service sector projects above
US$200,000 in the future. At negotiations, assurances have been obtained
from BRD that it will amend its Policy Statement to reflect this
requLirement. Such an amendment is a condition of effectiveness.
2.11      Supervision.  BRD's supervision procedures are satisfactory.  BRD
staff normally visit each project under supervision twice a year. Those
under construction are systematically visited after the first disbursement
and at completion.  Projects encountering difficulties receive additional
visits. Following each visit, a supervision letter is sent to the promoter
summarizing the findings and, if necessary, recommending actions to be
taken to redress any problem. BRD also requires client companies to submit



- 15 -
annual reports and financial statements as well as quarterly reports and
reviews them thoroughly. However, due to the lack of auditors in Rwanda,
these accounts are not audited by outside auditors and are often delayed
and incomplete. At present, the supervision unit has five professionals
working full time on project follow-up and assistance to enterprises.
Efforts are underway to replace them as soon as possible.  In view of the
expanding portfolio and greater involvement in the more risky SSE sector,
BRD intends to further reinforce this unit by increasing its staff to seven
in the next three years.
2.12      Promotion.  BRD has been very active in project promotion and has
successfully identified a large number of investment opportunities to
finance in industry, agriculture, as well as in the service sectors and
thus has grown at a rapid pace in the last several years. It now intends
to devote efforts to the promotion of small projects and has already
initiated studies in a number of subsectors (woodworking, windmills,
garages, tea-growing, quinquina) to assess the market and investment
opportunities.
2.13      Procurement and Disbursement.  While the responsibility for
selecting suppliers rests with the project promoters, BRD ensures that the
items to be purchased are at the lowest possible cost and suitable to the
planned operation.  For larger projects, several quotations are obtained
during appraisal, and in cases where substantial construction is involved,
BRD usually requires competitive bidding. Since projects financed by BRD
only involve procurement packages of a relatively modest size,
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would not be suitable. BRD
requires equity funds to be paid first, then disburses against presentation
of invoices or relevant documentation. These procedures are adequate.
2.14      Auditors.  Since 1976, when it was agreed under the first IDA
credit that an independent auditing firm would verify BRD's accounts, the
Nairobi based firm of Pannell, Kerr, Forster and Co., which has French
speaking staff, has been auditing BRD's accounts. The audits have been
generally satisfactory and in line with IDA's requirements. Under the
proposed credit, BRD will continue to have its accounts and financial
statements audited by Pannell, Kerr, Forster and Co. or by other
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and will furnish to IDA certified
copies of its audited financial statements and its annual report within six
months after the end of the fiscal year.
2.15      Interest Rates. Following a general readjustment of interest
rates in November 1979, BRD revised its interest rate policy and adopted a
system whereby the rates charged to clients depend on three factors:
(i) the maturity of the loan (medium or long-term); (ii) the sector; and
(iii) BRD's own calculation of the project's financial rate of return
(FROR). The "basic" rate varies from 8% to 10% for medium-term loans, and



- 16 -
from 9% to 11% for long-term loans, depending on the profitability of the
project: the lowest rate is for projects with a FROR of 15% or less and for
projects below RwF 1 million for which FROR is not calculated; the middle
rate for projects with FROR of 15% to 20%; and the highest rate for
projects with FROR over 20%. Except for agriculture which is exempted,
sector differentials are then added to the "basic" rate as follows:
commerce: 2% p.a., industry and other sectors: 1%i p.a. In addition, a flat
fee of 0.75% of the loan amount should be paid at signature and a
commission of 1% is charged on undisbursed funds. This interest rate
structure applies to all local and foreign currency loans with the
exception of two foreign lines of credit which have specific onlending
cornditions (Annex 3).
2.16      This system is too complex and administratively very cumbersome
as there are 18 possible interest rates. The categories are also arbitrary
and the criteria too easily manipulated so that it might confuse clients
and make them suspicious of possible favoritism by BRD. As the cost of its
resources as well as the cost of loan processing the larger projects are
the same, there is no reason for BRD to maintain so many different interest
rates. Such a policy penalizes good projects, is arbitrary and results in
a relatively low average interest rate, which is now between 10% and 11%
p.a. on the portfolio. Financial forecasts (para.2.42) indicate that BRD
would need to earn a spread of about 5.5% on its lending activities to
cover increasing operating costs and earn a minimum profit. To achieve
this objective in the face of higher inflation and higher borrowing costs,
both locally and abroad, there is no other alternative than to increase
onlending rates. At negotiations, BRD agreed (i) to simplify its interest
rate structure by eliminating FROR as a criterion for determining interest
rates; (ii) not to give any interest rate preferential to SSEs, with the
exception of very small loans of less than US$11,000 for which no detailed
evaluation is made; (iii) to increase the rates by 1 to 2 percentage
points; (iv) to set interest rates at positive levels in real terms and to
review the level and structure of interest rates with IDA at least one a
year; and (v) to carry out a study on interest rates in Rwanda to see how
the system could be further rationalized and better contribute to the
achievement of the Government's development objectives. The terms of
reference as well as the timetable for this study which if requested could
be financed from the study component of the proposed credit, have been
agreed with Government during negotiations. BRD's new interest rate
structure is given in the table below:



- 17 -
BRD's interest rate structure
(in percent per year)
Medium term loans        Long term loans
(up to 4 years)      (more than 4 years)
Agriculture and livestock                   10                       11
Industry and Mining                         11                       12
Services                                    12                       13
Commissions and Fees:  a flat fee of 0.75% of the loan amount payable at
signature plus a commitment fee of 1% on undisbursed amounts.
With this new interest rate structure, BRD should be able to earn an
average interest rate of about 12.5% per year as most of the projects
included in its pipeline are in the industrial and service sectors for
which BRD intends to give long term loans carrying higher interest rates.
2.17      Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage.  As a small, relatively
unsophisticated development bank, BRD cannot bear the foreign exchange
risk, nor can it pass it on to its borrowers because: (i) many of them are
small entrepreneurs inexperienced in foreign exchange dealings and BRD
would have to establish very cumbersome procedures; and (ii) at present
other term lenders for productive purposes in Rwanda charge 11% and their
borrowers can obtain foreign exchange at the central bank. So far, these
commercial banks have not been very active in term lending for productive
enterprises as they consider BRD - in which they have a share - as the
natural and well equipped institution for this type of activity. Also, BRD
and commercial banks' term rates have been at about the same level. Now
that BRD has increased its lending rates (para. 2.16), to request that it
passes on the foreign exchange risk to its clients would run the risk of
diverting part of BRD's business toward commercial banks, with the
resulting adverse effects on its business and profitability, and the
quality of term lending in Rwanda. Charging a fee on top of the new rates
would run the same risk. Finally, it is not considered advisable or
justified to ask BRD to assume such a fee as it is an already well run and
cost effective institutions and absorbing the fee would reduce its spread
to a level which would impair its profitability and long term viability.
Under the first two IDA credits, the Government assumed this risk at no fee
and has agreed to continue to do so under this project.
BRD and SSEs
2.18      BRD recently undertook a review and analysis of its past and
potential role in financing SSEs. Its definition for study purposes was the
total assets of an enterprise, although sales volume and number of
employees were also considered. Small enterprises were those with maximum
fixed assets of RwF 15 million. On this basis, in the seven years ending
December 31, 1981, 44% of BRD's 73 loan approvals were for small



- 18 -
enterprises (SSEs). The proportion of total loans approved for SSEs by
amount was of course much lower (3.1%). This level of approval was far
less than the actual demand for loans.  Because of staffing constraints and
a higher priority given to processing large loans, BRD did not investigate
an average of more than 40 SSE loan applications per year, representing
aggregate annual loan requests exceeding RwF 100 million.
2.19      BRD's past reluctance to finance SSEs was due to the higher
administrative costs and bad debt losses associated with such lending.
None of BRD's 13 large enterprise clients had arrears of over three months
at March 31, 1982, while two of eleven medium-size clients and 11 of 25
small enterprise clients were in arrears at that date. Also, excluded from
the figures given in para. 2.18 was a program of 38 small loans for
pi,ck-up trucks, granted without sufficient appraisal or security in the mid
1970s, most of which BRD has since written off. Given the lack of
Government extension or management training services to SSEs, they are
likely to continue to require more intensive follow-up assistance by BRD.
2.20       On the positive side, BRD analysis shows that several factors
could alleviate the negative financial impact of SSE lending. Firstly,
more experience in the sector should lead to improved repayment performance
through better criteria to select better projects and promoters.  Secondly,
the current streamlining of loan processing procedures for SSEs should hold
down administrative costs. Thirdly, an increase in BRD lending rates
should help improve its average spread. Fourth, access by BRD to an
effective guarantee scheme could help minimize the financial impact on BRD
of bad debts on SSE loans (para. 2.22). On the basis of the above, BRD
estimates it should be able to break even on SSE lending with a spread of
about 8%. If this proves insufficient, BRD nevertheless enjoys sufficient
profitability on lending to large enterprises that it could absorb some of
the costs of a modestly expanded program for SSEs.
2.21      However, given the risks involved, the lack of a coherent
Government plan for the promotion of small entrepreneurs and the need for
more experience with this type of lending, BRD decided to proceed with
caution and has developed a two phase program to assist the SSE sector. In
the first phase, the main emphasis will be put on (i) selecting and
financing the large number of unsatisfied SSE loan applications which have
not been processed in the past because of the shortage of staff and the low
priority that was accorded to them, and (ii) adapting BRD1s loan processing
procedures and organizational structure to facilitate SSE lending (paras.
2.22 to 2.25). In the second phase, which is expected to begin in 1984-85
when more experience and knowledge about the sector would have been
accumulated, BRD intends to take a more active, promotional role with the
emplhasis put on assisting and training small entrepreneurs.
2.22      In March 1982, BRD's Board approved the SSE program and
authorized revisions of policies for SSE lending. It lowered BRD's minimum
loan level from RwF 500,000 to RwF 200,000. Also, to speed up loan
processing, BRD's management had been previously given authority to approve



- 19 -
loans of up to RwF 3 million, subject to a maximum annual aggregate of RwF
20 million. Further, while BRD normally lends up to 50% of total project
costs, it will now finance up to 65% of costs for medium-size projects, and
up to 80% for small projects. BRD also proposed to finance up to 100% of
extension projects; this would be inappropriate, however, for extensions
that are very large in relation to existing assets of an enterprise. It
has agreed to modify its policy to permit financing of up to 100% of
extensions only where total financing does not exceed 50%, 65%, or 80% of
total assets of large, medium or small enterprises, respectively.
2.23      Because many promoters of small enterprises have insufficient
assets to offer as security for loans, BRD believes a guarantee scheme
would be an important complement to an expanded SSE lending role because it
would reduce the provision costs, which are much higher for this type of
lending than for larger projects. Recently, BRD has become a participant
in the Government's Special Guarantee Fund which will be revised to make
SSE financing more attractive for financial institutions (paras. 1.19 and
1.20). It has also established a guarantee fund of its own for very small
projects, using the counterpart resources under KfW lines of credit to
complement the guarantees received under the Special Guarantee Fund.
2.24      Starting with the first phase of its SSE lending program, BRD has
created a small enterprise lending division within its investment
department to streamline procedures, and to expand lending by being more
responsive to SSE loan requests. Within the SSE Division, two project
analysts will be responsible for agricultural lending (primarily, tree crop
plantations and livestock), while four analysts will be assigned to other
small loans. The Division has now four professionals transferred from
BRD's Investment Department; BRD is now seeking to recruit two new Rwandese
university graduates. Medium size loans will be processed with the same
procedures and staff as for large loans.
2.25      With regard to procedures, BRD plans to introduce simplified
application forms, appraisal reports, and loan contracts. To facilitate
future appraisal of individual SSE loans, BRD will complete studies of
priority sectors, such as grain milling, carpentry, auto-repair, livestock,
tourism, tea, and cinchona. Compared to average SSE loan approvals of only
RwF 35 million annually over the last eight years, BRD has set a target of
RwF 105 million of approvals/year in 1983 to 1985. These targets appear
achievable based on BRD's analysis of past and present SSE loan
applications.
B. Operations
2.26      As of December 31, 1981, BRD has approved loans and equity
investments amounting to RwF 2.4 billion. While most of the equity
participations were made before the mid-1970's, loan approvals started to
become important only in 1974 when they amounted to RwF 163 million.  Since



- 20 -
then, they have expanded rapidly to reach RwF 427 million in 1981. 1/
This growth in approvals has essentially taken place in long-term lending
for relatively few large projects. Medium-term loans, which in 1979
accounted for 74% of total approvals, represented 2% in 1981.
2.27      With the increase in activities, the sectoral mix of BRD-financed
projects has also changed significantly. In the early 1970s, the transport
and tourism sectors were the main focus of BRD's lending. Over the last
three years, however, industry became predominant, accounting for about 48%
of total approvals. Other sectors of importance included services such as
garages and storage. The rate of commitments and disbursements have
generally kept pace with the rate of approvals.
2.28      Because BRD is the only source of foreign exchange term loans in
Rwanda, it has been involved in financing all sizes of projects from the
MAGERWA storage and distribution project requiring a loan of RwF 240
million (US$2.6 million) to small-scale projects amounting to RwF 0.5
million. Generally, BRD keeps the size of its investment within 20% of net
worth in order to spread the risks over its portfolio. On a few projects
for which its intervention exceeded the 20% exposure limit, it has obtained
adequate supplementary guarantees mostly from Government. During 1979-81,
BRD approved 39 projects with a total cost of RwF 4.0 billion; it financed
RwF 1.4 billion and thus, helped mobilize an additional RwF 2.6 billion
worth of investments. The projects typically have financial rates of
return in excess of 15% and an estimated investment (including initial
working capital) per job created in the range of US$2,500-3,000 for small
projects and US$25,000-30,000 for medium and large projects.
Portfolio
2.29      Loan Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1981, BRD's loan portfolio
amounted to RwF 1,172 million and is distributed as follows: industry,
inc:Luding mining 73%, transport 16%, tourism 3%, agriculture 1% and other
sectors 7%. Long-term loans accounted for RwF 1,074 million (92% of the
portfolio) and debts considered doubtful or bad for RwF 21 million, or less
than 2% of the portfolio. A large number of projects (46%) are totally
owned by Rwandese entrepreneurs, although Government or foreign-controlled
enterprises have also been assisted by BRD. As most of the projects have
been approved recently, the portfolio is relatively young with many
projects still under execution or just starting operations. Those which
are in operation are quite profitable.
1/ According to preliminary data, loan approvals fell in 1982 to about
RwF 250 million as a result of slippage of a very large project to
1983.



- 21 -
2.30      Total arrears of more than three months at the end of March 1982
amounted to RwF 10.2 million, i.e., less than 1% of the portfolio, and
affected 13 projects, accounting for about 5% of the overall outstanding
portfolio.   Of these projects, 12 were small and medium enterprise
projects, mostly carpentry.  This subsector was severely affected by the
slowdown in construction, particularly housing construction for rental
purposes, which decreased the demand for furniture and carpentry work.  BRD
has stopped processing carpentry projects and is making efforts to help its
clients find orders and improve the quality of their products. Of the RwF
21.2 million in loans considered doubtful or bad, BRD has made specific
provisions for RwF 8.6 million, which is adequate as some loans are
guaranteed by the Government. In addition, there is a reserve for general
risks amounting to RwF 41.0 million (3.6% of loans outstanding). The
quality of BRD's loan portfolio is good, and generous provisions/reserves
have been set aside for possible losses.
2.31      Equity Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1981, BRD's equity
portfolio amounted to RwF 211.5 million and included investments in 12
companies, all of which have public sector participation. In accordance
with its Policy Statement (which limits equity participation to a maximum
of 50% of the company's share capital unless the Board of Directors
unanimously decides otherwise), BRD only has minority holdings ranging from
4.4% to 25.2%, except for a large storage project, MAGERWA, where it holds
68.7% of the capital. This project is also BRD's largest equity investment
(RwF 82.5 million) and has been providing BRD with significant and secure
income. Over the last four years, total cash dividends received from
MAGERWA (RwF 85.5 million) exceeded the investment made in 1969. Five
other projects have paid cash and/or stock dividends. Of the six remaining
investments, one is still under construction, two are in difficulties and
the last three only started operating recently.
Financial Results and Conditions
2.32      Financial Results.  BRD's income statements and balance sheets
for 1977-81 and the relevant financial ratios are shown in Annexes 4-6.
The 1981 unaudited statements indicate a profit of RwF 41.8 million, a
substantial decrease from RwF 52.3 million in 1980. This was mainly due to
a large bonus granted to staff in 1980, an exceptionally good year, but
paid in 1981, together with the 1981 bonus 2/. Revenues from the loan
portfolio (RwF 118.7 million) showed an increase of 21.3% over the previous
year, but dividends earned on the equity portfolio decreased slightly to
RwF 21.2 million, as compared to RwF 22.8 million in 1980. As in the past,
2/ For a number of years, it has been BRD's tradition to grant staff a
bonus at the end of the fiscal year. The importance of the bonus
depends on staff performance and BRD's financial results and is
decided by the Director General.



- 22 -
most of the dividend income has come from the MAGERWA project. In 1981,
income from loans as a percentage of average portfolio was 9.2% and that
from dividends was 1.6% as compared to 8.9% and 2.0% in 1980, respectively.
Compared to average total assets, however, income from loans decreased from
8.1% in 1980 to 7.7% in 1981, and that from dividends, from 1.8% to 1.4%,
mainly as a result of the increase in net fixed assets in 1981 due to the
construction of the new building. 3/
2.33      Total expenses rose from RwF 77.2 million in 1980 to  RwF 103.0
million in 1981. Financial charges as a percent of average total portfolio
decreased slightly in 1981 but administrative expenses jumped from 3.2% to
4.6% as a result of the double bonus paid to staff mentioned in para.
2.32. The number of staff only increased slightly, from 63 in 1980 to 65
in 1981.
2.34      Following a long standing provisions policy, an amount equivalent
to 3% of the increase in the annual outstanding loan portfolio was charged
against income to maintain a reserve account for general risks. In
addLition, RwF 4.6 million was set aside to increase specific provisions for
doubtful and bad loans. This total charge of RwF 9.0 million, together
with higher personnel costs and the increase in the paid-in share capital
during the year resulted in a decline in the 1981 return on average net
worth to 4.9%, as against 9.0% in 1980.
2.35      Financial Condition.  BRD is a sound and creditworthy
institution. In 1981, its term debt/equity ratio was about 0.7:1.0, well
within the 3:1 limit, while its debt service coverage ratio was 2:2. Of
the medium- and long-term debt totalling RwF 677.8 million, RwF 551.6
million was in foreign exchange on which the Government carries the foreign
exchange risk. The remainder was local currency borrowings from the
Government and the Central Bank. Given its conservative provisions policy
(para. 2.34), BRD is adequately protected against losses on the portfolio.
Its liquidity position is very strong and is expected to remain so as a
result of substantial loan repayments by clients in the next three to four
years.
3/ At present, BRD is occupying rented premises, which have become
inadequate for the increasing staff. Due to the shortage of office
space in Kigali, BRD has decided to construct an office building, which
would adequately meet its needs until about 1990. After completion of
the building in 1983-84, BRD will occupy about two thirds of the
available space and will rent out the remainder. The total cost of the
building, excluding studies, amounts to RwF 400 million and will be
depreciated over a 20-year period at a rate of 5% p.a. The financial
forecasts have also taken into account the net additional income
resulting from rents which are estimated at RwF 10 million in 1984 and
1985.



- 23 -
Resources
2.36      BRD's resource position as of December 31, 1981 is included in
the Basic Data. At that date, BRD's resources available for new approvals
amounted to RwF 622.2 million, of which RwF 528.8 million was in foreign
exchange and RwF 93.4 million in local currency. The relatively low level
of local currency resources, which is due to the construction of the new
building (for which RwF 435 million has been set aside), will not be a
constraint on BRD's future operations as substantial inflows of local
resources are expected in the next few years from loan repayments and the
paying-in of the remaining part of the share capital increase authorized in
1980. Besides its share capital, BRD's local resources include retained
earnings, two special investment funds 4/, and two loans from the
Government and the Central Bank at very concessionary terms.
2.37      BRD's foreign exchange resources consist of seven loans/credits
from three different donors (CCCE, IDA and KfW) and a large line of credit
provided by the Central Bank out of the proceeds of an IMF Trust Fund
loan (Annex 3). The foreign loans carry interest rates between 0.75% and
6% and have maturities ranging from 11 to 50 years. The two CCCE loans are
tied to French procurement and one of them has been granted for financing a
specific project at an interest rate of 9% p.a.  On the other loans, there
are no conditions attached to restrict BRD's flexibility of operation. The
Government carries the foreign exchange risk on all loans. The BNR line of
credit has specific on-lending conditions depending on the maturity of the
subloans and the sector. They are generally about 1.0%-1.5% lower than the
on-lending rates agreed under other lines of credit.
C. Prospects
BRD's Strategy
2.38      As the major term lending institution, BRD plays an important
role in the economic development of Rwanda by financing much of the
investments needed in industry, transport or other sectors. Typically, its
projects are promoted by private entrepreneurs and are relatively large.
This was a reflection of BRD's determination, as a young development bank,
to build up experience and a solid financial structure. Now that both
objectives have been largely achieved, BRD intends to devote more efforts
and resources to the development of smaller projects and has prepared a
4/ The resources of the "KfW Investment Fund" come from a 4% spread on
two loans granted by KfW, while those of the "Special Investment Fund"
come from the proceeds of a loan given to TRAFIPRO by the Government
out of a Swiss grant. This Fund is managed by BRD for the Government.



- 24 -
program to assist small-scale enterprises (paras. 2.18-2.25).  To
facilitate the implementation of this program, BRD has introduced a number
of changes in its Policy Statement and procedures. These changes are
considered appropriate given the nature of SSE projects and will not affect
the quality of BRD's projects and portfolio.
Projects Pipeline
2.39      As the major institution in Rwanda providing term finance for
development projects, BRD has a very strong pipeline which by far exceeds
its resources availability for the next 2-3 years. It has therefore
selected a limited number of projects which it plans to study more
thoroughly and hopefully finance. This list consists of about 60 projects
with a total investment cost of about US$45 million, for which assistance
of about US$20 million has been sought from BRD, Small- and medium-size
projects account for almost 80% of the number of projects and for 20% of
the amount. The promoters are for the most part Rwandese entrepreneurs or
locally-based foreign groups, and, in a few cases, the Government. The
majority of these projects are in the industrial and agricultural sectors
and include manufacture of insecticide, soap, acetylene, textiles, soft
drinks, tea plantations, foodcrop production and livestock development.
BRD's intervention in these projects will be predominantly foreign exchange
financing. Based on the above list of projects and additional projects
arising from the draft Third Development Plan which is being finalized, BRD
is forecasting a steady growth in approvals of about 30% per annum, with
total approvals increasing from RwF 845 million in 1983 to RwF 1,029
million in 1985. On current estimates of inflation (9.5%-10% per annum in
the period 1983-85), the forecasts show a significant growth in BRD's
lending in real terms, although part of it results from a low level of
operations in 1982 due to slippage of a few large projects to 1983/84.
Financial Forecasts
2.40      Forecasts of BRD's operations and financial results for the
period 1983-85 appear in Annexes 7-11. They show that despite continued
fast growth of activities, BRD's net income tends to be depressed by higher
financial and administrative charges and a relative stagnation of interest
revenue. Financial charges as a percentage of average total portfolio are
forecast to rise from 2.0% in 1981 to 3.0% in 1985, while the share of
depreciation will more than double during the same period as a result of
the investment in the new office building.  In contrast, income from
interests and dividends will decrease from about 11% of average total
portfolio in 1981 to about 10% in 1985, if no upward adjustment is made in
the interest rates charged to clients.  As a result, net income as a
percentage of average total portfolio will gradually decline from 3.3% in
1981 to 2.2% in 1985, despite efforts to hold down administrative costs.



- 25 -
This is why BRD has agreed to increase its lending rates, the major source
of its revenues in the future (para. 2.16). 5/
2.41      Concurrently with the increase in lending rates, BRD would also
have to make every effort to reduce administrative costs.  Such reductions
should be feasible as there appears to be ample room for increasing staff
productivity, which measured in terms of number of projects approved, seems
to have deteriorated over the last three years, although projects have
become somewhat more complex. It should be possible for -BRD to process
more projects, particularly the larger ones, without a substantial increase
in staff.  BRD essentially agrees with this analysis and despite a
substantial increase in projected operations for the next few years, it
plans to add only one more professional to its large-project evaluation
unit. Most of the new recruitments will be for the SSE Division which, by
1985 will have six professionals.  This should be sufficient to carry out
BRD's planned SSE lending program.
2.42      However, even assuming that BRD succeeds in maintaining
administrative costs to about 3.0%-3.5% of the total portfolio (which would
represent a substantial productivity increase in the supervision of large
projects and quite an efficient processing of SSE operations) it would
still need a spread of about 5.5% to operate profitably and continue making
what is considered an adequate level of provisions.  Despite the projected
strong growth in lending operations, long-term debt to equity would only
rise to 1.6:1.0 in 1985, which is well within BRD's present debt/equity
limit in the legal agreements with IDA.
Resource Requirements
2.43      According to provisional figures, BRD had foreign exchange
resources available for commitments amounting to RwF 455 million (US$5.0
million) at the end of December 1982. Foreign exchange commitments by BRD
during the period 1983-85 are estimated at about RwF 1,575 million (US$17.1
million). Thus BRD has a foreign exchange resource gap during this period
amounting to US$12.1 million. The investment component of the proposed
credit (US$6.9 million) would help meet about 57% of BRD's foreign exchange
gap during 1983-1985. BRD is in the final stage of negotiating with the
European Development Fund (EDF) a line of credit in the amount equivalent
to US$1.0 million and hopes that these funds will be available for
commitment during 1983. It is also actively pursuing other sources of
funds such as KfW and CIDA to cover the remaining gap (US$4.2 million).
5/ Dividend revenues are expected to remain at about the same level
as in the past because the growth in the equity portfolio will be in
either investments that would not produce dividends quickly, or if they
do, the rate would be modest compared to MAGERWA.



- 26 -
2.44      In local currency, BRD is not likely to have any resource
constraint during 1983-85. It is, in fact, expecting large inflows of
local currency resources coming from loan repayments by clients and the
paying-in of the remaining part of the share capital increase authorized in
1980, which together with the net cash generation would be more than
sufficient to finance the construction of the new building, loan repayments
and the local currency component of projects.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The First Two IDA Credits to BRD
3.01      BRD has benefitted so far from two IDA credits. 6/  The first
credit is now fully disbursed, while the second credit is about 80%
committed and about 25% disbursed., as of January 31, 1983. The second IDA
credit included $0.2 million to finance a feasibility study on the
estalblishment of an audit firm in Rwanda. This study was done and its
conclusions are presently reviewed by the government and IDA.
3.02      The subprojects financed by IDA under those two credits as of
January 31, 1983 numbered 13, of which three were below the free limit.
They were well designed and fully justified on technical, financial, and
economic grounds. The largest subproject (US$3.5 million, of which US$1.2
million were refinanced by IDA) was to help SOMIRWA rehabilitate its mining
operations and implement its first five-year development program which
ended in 1981. The company now employs about 8,500 workers and provides
liveLihood for some 2,000 artisan miners who extract and sell the ores to
SOMIRWA. The second largest subproject (subloan of US$1.2 million) was to
assist MAGERWA, a company in which BRD is the main shareholder (para.
2.31), in renewing and expanding its storage facilities which had become
insufficient to meet the country's needs. Of the remaining 11 subprojects,
six were for industry and assisted firms in developing/expanding their
production line (plastic products, corrugated iron sheets, textile) or
diversifying their operations into new activities, and five were for
tourism development, purchase of printing equipment and materials and
financing of equipment for automobile and truck repair. In terms of
geographical distribution, the subprojects tended to be concentrated in
Kigali and its vicinity because of the importance of the capital as a
center of economic activity. They all have high financial rates of return,
often in excess of 15% and those which are in operation show returns
comparable to appraisal estimates. Although the economic rate of return
has not been calculated for all the projects, available data show
that import substitution projects generally operate without special
protection, are competitive with imports and in some cases have saved the
country sizeable amounts of foreign exchange.
6/ Cr. 655-RW: US$4.0 million, approved in July 1976 and became effective
in March 1977; and Cr. 896-RW: US$5.2 million, approved in April
1979 and became effective in January 1980.



- 27 -
B. Objectives of the Proposed Third IDA Credit
3.03      The proposed credit would represent IDA's continued support to an
effective financial intermediary to help it continue to contribute to the
development of the productive sectors of the economy in line with the
strategy of the draft Third Five-Year Development Plan (para. 1.09). More
specifically, the objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to provide the needed foreign exchange resources for
priority capital investments;
(b) to assist in the development of SSEs in Rwanda by helping
BRD implement a pilot program for financing SSE projects and
by financing the cost of a study necessary to develop a
nationwide SSE development program; and
(c) to help BRD continue developing its capabilities and evolve
into a strong and mature financial institution.
C. Description of the Project
3.04      The proposed project would have two components:
(a) A line of credit to BRD which would have two parts:
(i) at most US$4.4 million to help BRD finance larger
projects;
(ii) at least US$2.5 million for BRD's proposed SSE
program. At BRD's request and with IDA's content,
funds reserved for larger projects could be
reallocated to finance small enterprises;
(b) US$0.1 million to help Government and BRD carry out studies
and develop an SSE program.
The first component of US$6.9 million would be passed on by Government to
BRD as a line of credit under terms and conditions specified below. The
study component (US$0.1 million) would be administered by the Finance
Ministry (para. 3.09).
Line of Credit to BRD
3.05      During negotiations, the following terms and conditions were
agreed with the Government and BRD:



- 28 -
(a) Eligibility. All subprojects in the sectors that are within
BRD's scope of operations would be eligible for financing. The larger
projects will have to be of high economic priority, be selected by BRD in
accordance with its investment strategy and be justified on the basis of a
full economic analysis, including calculation of the economic rate of
return for all non-service sector projects above US$200,000.  SSE projects
will be selected and appraised according to a simplified format agreed with
IDA during appraisal.
(b) Free Limit. The free limit for an individual subproject
would be US$200,000, and the aggregate free limit US$2.5 million. As all
SSE projects would be below the free limit, IDA will review in detail the
first ten SSE subprojects submitted by BRD to ensure that the simplified
format agreed upon is used effectively.
(c) On-Lending Rate, Commitment Fee, and Re-Lending Rate. The
cost of resources to BRD will have a major impact upon its profitability,
particularly over the next 2-3 years when the first phase of BRD's SSE
program is being implemented. In addition, since IDA would be providing
about 57% of BRD's foreign exchange gap during 1982-84, the on-lending
rate of the proposed credit would have a major impact on BRD's future
profitability. It was agreed that:
(i) BRD would raise its lending rates to levels which should permit
it to earn an average interest rate of about 12.5% (para. 2.16).
(ii) IDA funds for financing SSEs (US$2.5 million) would be passed
on to BRD by the Government at an interest rate of 5%, given
the much larger administrative costs and risks associated with
this type of operations, while funds for lending to larger
enterprises (US$4.4 million) would carry a higher rate of 8%.
This would result in an average onlending rate from government
of 6.9% (as compared with 6% for the second IDA credit) and
would give BRD an average spread of about 5.6% as its lending
rate will be about 12.5% on average.
(iii) BRD would pay to Government the commitment charge of 0.75% only
from the respective dates of subproject approval by IDA.
(iv) BRD would be exempt from the recently instituted IDA commitment
fee, which will be borne by the Government.
(d) Foreign Exchange Risk. The arrangements agreed under the
first two IDA credits whereby the Government, without any fee, would assume
the foreign exchange risk would be continued (para. 2.17).



- 29 -
(e) Amortization Schedule. In conformity with the normal
IBRD/IDA lending policy to DFCs, funds for lending to medium and large
enterprises (US$4.4 million) would have a flexible amortization schedule
that would substantially conform with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of the subloans approved by BRD and financed under the proposed
credit, subject to a maximum of 15 years, including a grace period not to
exceed five years. Given the large number of small loans expected to be
financed under the SSE component, the portion of the credit relent to BRD
for this purpose (US$2.5 million) would have a fixed amortization schedule
of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, starting from the date of credit
effectiveness.
(f) Commitment Period. The funds would be available for
commitment by BRD until December 1985.
(g) Debt/Equity Ratio. The limit on BRD's debt/equity ratio
would remain at 3:1.
SSE Study Component
3.06      The Government recognizes the importance of developing SSEs and
has agreed to carry out a study of the issues related to the development of
an SSE program in Rwanda which could lead to a future SSE project.
However, the Government does not have the necessary resources to undertake
such a task. During negotiations, it was therefore agreed that:
(i) BRD would take the lead in organizing and establishing in Rwanda
a working group, which will carry out this study for the
Government. BRD will supervise the work of this group and will
coordinate its activities with the different ministries concerned
(Plan, Economy and Commerce, and Finance).
(ii) US$100,000 would be included in this project to help cover the
foreign and local cost of this study _/.
The study to be financed under this component will address specific policy
issues which are hindering the development of the SSE sector, such as
investment incentives, the procurement system or the credit guarantee
scheme (para. 1.22). Detailed terms of reference for this component have
been discussed and agreed with the Government and BRD (annex 13) at
negotiations. This study is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984,
and unused funds, if any, would be transferred at the request of the
Government, with IDA's consent, to the line of credit under the terms and
conditions applicable to that component. The above study would lay the
basis for drawing up an SSE development program in Rwanda, to be prepared
by Government and BRD for an exchange of views with IDA by December 31,
1984 at the latest.
7/ The cost of this study is expected to be mainly in local currency
although some external consultancy services may be needed.



- 30 -
D. Project Costs and Financing
3.07      Total commitments under this project are estimated at
US$26.3 million during 1983-85, of which the foreign exchange component is
US$17.2 million. A summary is shown in Table 1 below:
Table 1: Project Commitments
RwF million                US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
BRI) Operations               845   1,575   2,420       9.2      17.1    26.3
SSE: study 1/                   2        2       11     0.1      neg.     0.1
Total                    854   1,577   2,431       9.3      17.1    26.4
7T Including contingencies.
In the past BRD financed on average about a third of the investment costs.
Thus, the US$26.3 million forecast commitments would result in about US$80
million of investments. As in the past, projects financed under this
proposed line of credit are expected to show high economic and financial
rates of return.
3.08      The financing plan for BRD's operations in the period 1983-85 is
shown in Table 2 below:



- 31 -
Table 2: Financing Plan for BRD's Operations 1982-84
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
Total Commitments                              9.2        17.1       26.3
Resources Available for Commitment             6.6         5.0      11.6
Resource Gap                                   2.6        12.1       14.7
Financed by:
Net Cash Generation                            2.6          -         2.6
Third IDA Line of Credit                        -          6.9       6.9
Other Foreign Exchange Sources                  -          5.2       5.2
(including EDF)
TOTAL                                      2.6       12.1       14.7
IDA would thus cover about 57% of BRD's foreign resource gap, or about 40%
of its total foreign resource requirements for the period 1983-85. BRD has
already approached other foreign donors to raise the balance of its needs.
E. Project Implementation
3.09      BRD would be responsible for implementing the line of credit
component and the Ministry of Finance for the SSE study.
3.10      Reporting Requirements.  BRD will submit to IDA quarterly
reports which would include inter alia the following: financial statements,
arrears and resources position statements, progress of operations, and
notes on major projects in difficulty, including the conclusions and
recommendations of BRD's supervision staff. Audited accounts prepared by
qualified accountants acceptable to IDA in accordance with the Illustrative
Form for DFCs will be submitted to IDA along with the annual report within
six months after the end of the year. Government and BRD will also submit
a report to IDA when the project is completed.
3.11      Consultants.  In the case that external consultants are needed to
carry out the SSE study, their selection, qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment will be in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to IDA.



- 32 -
3.12      Procurement.  Procurement for the subprojects refinanced under
the credit will be in accordance with BRD's procedures which are adequate
for the size of procurement packages expected (para. 2.13).
3.13      Disbursement.  The proceeds of the proposed credit would be
disbursed as follows:
(a) SSE study: 100% of foreign and local costs.
(b) BRD subloans: (i) 100% of c.i.f. cost of goods and
services imported for eligible subprojects;
(ii) 80% of the cost of locally purchased goods;
and (iii) 65% of the total cost of construction
and civil works, representing the foreign exchange
component.
The projected disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 12 and is based on
the disbursement profile for IDF projects in East Africa but modified to
take into account the experience under the first credit to BRD which was
disbursed at a relatively fast pace. Disbursements are expected to be
completed over 6 years, or by December 1988.
F. Benefits and Risks
3.14      Although traditionally low, investment has recently registered a
significant growth in Rwanda in both the private and public sectors. This
trend is expected to continue with the implementation of the Third
Development Plan. This is therefore a particularly appropriate time to
assist BRD, not only in its efforts to become an efficient and independent
allocator of resources but also to finance the development of the Rwandese
economy. Under this project, IDA will seek to continue strengthening and
improving BRD's capabilities and procedures and support its orientation
toward assistance to SSEs. As BRD is the major source of term finance and
cooperates closely with the Government, it can have a significant impact on
the design and development of projects.
3.15      There is no major risk associated with this project.  Ahtough a
relatively small and young development bank, BRD is a solid and well
managed institution with a substantial pipeline of projects, which should
be sufficient to support the forecast level of operations. Its volume of
operation has fluctuated in the past because of its dependence on a
relatively small number of large projects, and the same phenomenon may
happen again in the future as large projects in Rwanda will continue to be
relatively few and thus affect BRD's overall activity. Nevertheless, it is
expected that the rates of commitments and disbursements for this project
will be achieved as anticipated.



- 33 -
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
4.01      This report recommends an IDA credit of SDR 6.5 million  (US$7.0
million), of which US$6.9 million onlent to BRD for subloans to productive
enterprises, including $2.5 million for SSEs, and US$0.1 million to the
Finance Ministry for a study on SSE development. During negotiations the
following agreements have been reached:
(a) From the Government that:
(i)  the study for the development of an SSE program
(paras. 1.22 and 3.06; Annex 13) and the study on
interest rates in Rwanda will be carried out; and
(ii) the line of credit component will be onlent to BRD
under the conditions specified in para. 3.05.
(b)  As a condition of effectiveness:  BRD's Policy Statement will be
amended to include BRD's new structure of interest rates (paras. 2.15
and 2.16) and to require the calculation of the economic rate of
return for all non-service sector projects above US$200,000
(para. 2.10).



- 34 -
ANNEX I
RWANDA - Structure of Interest Rates 1/
(In per cent per annum)
Before              Effective since
Nov. 1979              Nov. 12, 1979
National Bank of Rwanda
1. Direct operations with the private sector
a.  Exports credits                                     4.0                    4.0
b. Imports of equipment goods and other
essential commodities                            5.0                    7.0
c.  Other credits                                       7.0                    9.0
d.  Penalty rate on credit not repaid
by maturity date                                 9.0                   12.0
2. Operations with banks
a.  Advances against coffee paper at the
processing stage                                 3.5                    3.5
b.  Advances against export paper (coffee
paper only up to 25 per cent of value)           3.5                    3.5
c.  Coffee export paper above 25 per cent
of value                                         4.5                    3.5
d.  Advances against Treasury bills                     4.0                    8.0
e.  Rediscount of Treasury bills with
one month to maturity and development
bonds with 90 days to maturity                   5.0                    9.0
Deposit money banks
1. Deposit rate
a.  Term deposits  2/
1 month                                            1.0                    6.0
3 months                                           2.0                    6.25
6 months                                           2.5                    6.5
9 months                                           3.0                    6.75
12 months                                           3.5                    7.0
b.  Savings bonds (certificates of deposit)
6 months                                           3.0                    -
9 months                                           3.5                    -
12 months                                           4.25                   7.0
2 years                                            -                      8.0
3 years                                            -                      8.5
4 years                                            -                      9.0
5 years                                            -                      9.5
2. Lending rates 3/
a. Coffee financing
Collection  (6 months)                          8.0                     9.0
Processing (15 days)
storage (60 days)                      )RwF 3.0 per kilo)    RwF 3.3 per kilo
Export (90 days)
b. Tea and pyrethrum
Storage (30 days)                                6.0                    -
Exports (120 to 180 days)                        4.0                    4.0
c. Mining operations
Exports (120 to 280 days)                        4.5                    5.0
d. Other credit operations
Imports of essential commodities
(one year)                                    9.0                    9.0
Construction under RwF4 million
in cost                                       9.0                    9.0
Other construction and current acount
advances (one year)                           9.0                   14.0
e. Investment approved by National Bank
of Rwanda                                     -                     11.0 4/
f.  Other credit with 5 years's maturity    9.0  - 13.0                       13.0 max.
g. Other credit with maturity greater
than 5 years                                    -                      13.5 max.
h. Penalty rate on loans that are not
repaid on schedule 5/                           -  additional 2 per cent
during first 15 days of
default;
- and additional 4 per
cent for delays beyond
15 days.
Source: IMF and BNR.
1/ Net of commissions.
2/ The interest rates on deposits that require prior notice before withdrawal are
0.25 percentage points higher than those on regular fixed term.
3/ A minimum charge of 0.75 per cent is levied on all financial operations that
require repayments by installments.
4/ Maximum.
5/ Introduced in 1980.
EAPID
February 1983



- 35 -
Annex 2
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Distribution of Share Capital December 31, 1981
(RwF million)
Paid-in Capital  Amounts to be paid-in  Authorized Capital
Public Sector                          539.0                 107.7                   646.7
Government                           453.3                 102.7                   556.0
OCIR-CAFE                             44.6                  -                       44.6
OCIR-THE                               5.1                   5.0                    10.1
Caisse Sociale du Rwanda              36.0                   -                      36.0
Domestic Private Sector                129.7                  10.0                    139.7
Banque Commerciale du Rwanda          30.0                   -                      30.0
Banque de Kigali                      30.0                  -                       30.0
SOMIRWA                               12.7                  -                       12.7
BRALIRWA                               9.0                  -                        9.0
RWANTEX                                1.8                   -                        1.8
SULFO-RWANDA                           1.4                  -                         1.4
SONARWA                               40.0                  10.0 1/                 50.0
Other                                  4.8                  -                        4.8
Foreign Institutions                   206.2                   7.4                    213.6
CCCE                                 100.0                  -                      100.0
Belgian Government                    52.6                   7.4                    60.0
DEG                                   44.7                  -                       44.7
Bank of Tokyo                          8.9                   -                        8.9
TOTAL                                874.9                 125.1                 1,000.0
1/ Paid-in during the first quarter of 1982.
EAPID
February 1983



BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Borrowings as of December 31, 1981
Date of         Currency        Amount 1/    Maturity  Grace Period   Interest Rate   Commitment   Amount Disbursed  Amount Outstanding  BRD onlending rate
Lending Institution              Loan Agreement  of Borrowing  (RwF million)   (years)              (years)             p..)    fee (X p.a.)         (RwF million)         (RwF million)        (%   p.a.)
A.  Local Currency Resources
BNR line of credit               Feb. 2, 1971            RwF              100.0          30             -                   _                            88.5                   33.4                 BRD rates
Government of Rwanda             March 7, 1975           RwF               92.8          25           11                  3.0            -               92.8                   92.8                 BRD rates
(Arab league)
B. Foreign Exchange Resources
ENR (Trust Fund)                       1980               -            1,00.0            9            5                  3.5            -               60.0                  60.0            Agricultural Projects
Medium Term:  8.0 -  8.5%
Long Term:    9.0 -  9.5%
industrial Projects
Medium Term:  9.0 - 10.0%
Long Tens:    10.0 - 11.5%
Commercial Projects
Medium Term; 10.0 - 11.5%
Long Term:   11.0 - 12.5%
KfW I                            Feb. 22, 1974           D.M.              20.2         50            10                  0.75           0.25            18.6                   18.6                 BRD rates
KfW II                           Sept. 14, 1976          D.M.              80.9          50            10  medium term: 1.5              0.25            77.9                   77.9                 BRD rates
long term:   4.0
KfW III                                1980              D.M.             161.8          50           10  BRD rates less                 -               40.1                   40.1                 BRD rates
4%                                                                                                                   5
IDA I                            August 20, 1976         US$             367.6  variable       variable                   4.0            -              349.4                 225.8                 BRD rates
IDA II                           Sept. 13, 1979          US$             459.5  variable       variable                   6.0            -               43.3                   43.3                BRD rates
CCCE I                           Sept. 6, 1976           FF                80.0          15            6                  4.0            0.5             85.5                   85.5                 BRD rates
CCCE II                          Dec. 1980               FF                84.0          11            4                  6.0            0.5              -                      -                   9%
I/  Conver-ted  nto RaP using exchange rate of December 31, 1981.
EAPID
February 1983



- 37 -
Annex 4
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Summary Income Statements 1977-81
(RwF million)
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
INCOME
Interests and commissions on Loans
(incl. Loan Income from Previous
Years)                                  32.2      40.5      67.6    100.7    118.7
Dividends                                23.2      22.4      23.2      22.8      21.2
Other Income                              1.2       1.7       2.3       6.0       4.9
Total Income                       56.6      64.6      93.1    129.5    144.8
CHARGES
Administrative Expenses             17.3      24.5      31.5      36.7      59.1
Financial Charges                    7.8      10.4      16.8      24.4      26.3
Depreciation                          1.7      5.1       7.1       8.8       8.6
Provisions                          11.4       5.7      15.6        7.3      9.0
Total Charges                      38.2      45.7      71.0      77.2    103.0
NET PROFIT                               18.4      18.7      22.1      52.3      41.8
EAPID
February 1983



- 38 -
Annex 5
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Summary Balance Sheets, 1977-81
(RwF million)
1977      1978        1979         1980        1981
ASSETS
Current. Assets                      45.5       67.6        65.4         83.6        270.2
Portfolio                           563.7      693.0    1,069.6       1,203.2     1,374.7
Loans for Transport vehicles       (6.7)      (-)         ()           (-)         (-)
Medium and Long Term Loans       (417.3)   (553.2)    (926.2)   (1,011.7)   (1,163.2)
Equit:y Investments              (139.7)   (139.8)    (143.4)        (191.5)     (211.5)
Fixed Assets (net)                   26.1       34.3        36.1         41.0        101.1
TOTAL ASSETS                          635.3      794.9    1,171.1       1,327.8      1,746.0
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                  32.5        6.7        86.2         81.3         17.4
Term Borrowings                     270.2      400.5       594.0        509.6        677.8
IDA                               (16.9)   (153.5)    (295.1)       (268.3)      (269.2)
BNR                               (45.4)    (40.2)       (37.8)       (35.6)      (93.5)
Arab League (Government)          (92.8)    (92.8)       (92.8)       (92.8)       (92.8)
Development Credit (Gov.)          (-)        (-)        (75.0)        ()           ()
Swiss Fund                        (17.9)      (-)         (-)         (-)          (-)
KfW                               (62.2)    (94.0)       (83.8)       (93.9)     (136.7)
CCCE                               (-)        (-)         (9.5)       (19.0)      (85.6)
Comme:rcial Banks                 (35.0)    (20.0)        (-)          ()           (-)
Provisions                           19.0       23.0        34.0         36.6         41.0
Funds for Share Capital increase   50.0          -           -            -
Equity                              263.6      364.7       456.9        700.3      1,009.8
Paid-ini Share Capital            (208.0)   (342.0)    (416.0)        (604.2)      (874.9)
Reserves and Retained Earnings   (55.6)    (22.7)         (40.9)       (96.1)      (134.9)
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     635.3      794.9    1,171.1       1,327.8      1,746.0
EAPID
February 1983



- 39 -
Annex 6
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Past Financial Ratios
1977      1978      1979      1980     1981
Income Statement Elements
as % of Average Total Assets
Total Income                                9.1       9.0       9.5      10.4       9.4
of which: Interests and Commissions
on Loans                               (5.2)    (5.7)    (6.9)    (8.1)    (7.7)
Dividends                          (3.7)    (3.1)    (2.4)    (1.8)    (1.4)
Other Income                       (0.2)    (0.2)      (0.2)    (0.5)    (0.3)
Total Charges                               6.2       6.4       7.2       6.2       6.7
of which: Admin. Expenses                (2.8)    (3.4)    (3.2)    (2.9)    (3.8)
Interest Payments                   (1.3)    (1.5)    (1.7)    (2.0)    (1.7)
Depreciation                        (0.3)    (0.7)    (0.7)    (0.7)    (0.6)
Provisions                          (1.8)    (0.8)      (1.6)    (0.6)    (0.6)
Net Profit                                  2.9       2.6       2.3       4.2       2.7
Profitability Indicators
Net Profit as % of Average                  7.3       6.0       5.4       9.0       4.9
Equity
Income from loans as % of
Average Loan Portfolio                    7.8       8.3       9.3      10.4      10.9
Cost of Debt as % of
Average debt                              3.1       3.1       3.4       4.4       4.4
Financial Structure Indicators
Term Debt/Year-End Equity                   1.0       1.1       1.3       0.7       0.7
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                           1.8       5.3       1.4       2.2
EAPID
February 1983



- 40 -
Annex 7
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Projected Operations, 1983-85
(RwF million)
1983     1984      1985
Approvals
Long-Term loans                                      660       726       799
Medium-Term loans                                    165       182       200
Equity Investments                                    20        25        30
Total                                          845       933    1,029
Commitments
Long-Term loans                                      612       706       777
Medlium-Term loans                                   125       177       195
Equity Investments                                    20        25        30
Total                                           757      908    1,002
Disbursements
Long-Term loans                                      581       659       741
Medium-Term loans                                    183       150       186
Equity Investments                                    10        22        28
Total                                           774      831       955
EAPID
Februar-y 1983



- 41 -
Annex 8
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Projected Income Statements 1983-85
(RwF million)
1983     1984      1985
INCOME
Interests and Commissions                              226       256       287
Dividends                                               23        23        23
Other Income                                             -        10 1/    10 1/
Total Income                                      249       289      320
CHARGES
Administrative Expenses                                 79        90       102
of which: Personnel                                  (50)      (58)      (67)
Depreciation                                            33        44        44
Provisions                                              14        11        11
Financial Charges                                       64        78        94
of which: Existing borrowings                        (64)      (74)      (75)
New borrowings                             (-)       (4)      (19)
Total Charges                                     190       223      251
NET PROFIT                                              59        66        69
1/ Income from renting part of the new building.
EAPID
February 1983



- 42 -
Annex 9
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Projected Balance Sheets, 1983-85
(RwF million)
1983     1984      1985
ASSETS
Current Assets                                        100        80       80
Loan Portfolio                                      2,329    2,688    3,055
Equity Portfolio                                      232       254      282
Net Fixed Assets                                      443       422      378
Total Assets                                   3,104    3,444    3,795
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                                    10        10       10
Term Borrowings                                     1,702    1,974    2,266
Existing Borrowings                              (1,684)  (1,865)  (1,745)
New Borrowings                                      (18)    (109)    (521)
Proviisions                                            76        87       98
KfW Investment Fund                                     5         7        7
Rwanclese Gvt. Investment Fund                         19        29       39
Share Capital                                       1,050    1,050    1,050
Reserves and Retained Earnings                        242       287      325
Total. Liabilities                                  3,104    3,444    3,795
EAPID
February 1983



- 43 -
Annex 10
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1983-85
(RwF million)
1983     1984      1985
SOURCES
Net Profit                                              59        56        59
Depreciation                                            33        44        44
Provisions                                              14        11        11
Increase in Share Capital                                -         -         -
KfW Investment Fund                                      5         6         6
Rwandese Govt. Investment Fund                          10        10        10
Loans Collection                                       310       450       560
Drawing on Loans                                       460       398       527
Existing Borrowings                                 (442)    (307)    (115)
New Borrowings                                       (18)      (91)    (412)
Total                                             891      975    1,217
USES
Loan Repayments                                        136       126       235
Short Term Debt                                           -        -         -
Loan Disbursements                                     764       809       927
Equity Disbursements                                    10        22        28
Increase in Fixed Assets                               187        23         -
Transfer to KfW Guarantee Fund                           4         4         6
Dividend Payments                                        -        21        21
Increase in Net Current Assets                        (210)      (30)        -
Total                                             891       975    1,217
EAPID
February 1983



- 44 -
Annex 11
BANQUE RWANDAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BRD)
Projected Financial Ratios, 1983-85
1983      1984      1985
Income Statement Elements
as % of Average Total Assets
Total Income                                               8.6       8.8       8.8
of which: Interests & Commissions
on Loans                                             (7.8)    (7.8)    (7.9)
Dividends                                         (0.8)     (0.7)    (0.6)
Other Income                                      (-)       (0.3)    (0.3)
Total Charges                                              6.6       6.8       6.9
of which: Admin. Expenses                              (2.7)     (2.7)    (2.8)
Interest Payments                                  (2.2)     (2.4)    (2.6)
Depreciation                                       (1.2)    (1.4)    (1.2)
Provisions                                         (0.5)    (0.3)    (0.3)
Net Profit                                                 2.0       2.0       1.9
Profitability Indicators
Net Profit as % of Average
Equity                                                  4.6       4.9       4.9
Income from loans as % of
Average Loan Portfolio                                  10.8      10.2      10.0
Cost of Debt as % of
Average debt                                            4.2       4.2       4.4
Financial Structure Indicators
Term Debt/Year-End Equity                                  1.3       1.4       1.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                3.1       4.0       2.9
EAPID
February 1983



- 45 -
Annex 12
BANQUE  RWANDAISE  DE  DEVELOPPEMENT  (BRD)
Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal year        Cumulative Disbursements (US$000')          Total cumulative
and Quarter ending           SSE Study         Subloans  Total   Disbursements in %
FY 84
September 30, 1983               60               194      254              3.6
December 31, 1983                80               345      425              6.1
March 31, 1984                  100               621      721              10.3
June 30, 1984                   100               897      997             14.2
FY 85
September 30, 1984              100              1242    1342              19.2
December 31, 1984               100              1587    1687              24.1
March 31, 1985                  100              2001     1101             15.7
June 30, 1985                   100             2415    2515               35.9
FY 86
September 30, 1985              100             2760    2860               40.9
December 31, 1985               100             3174    3274               46.8
March 31, 1986                  100              3588    3688              52.7
June 30, 1986                   100             3933    4033               57.6
FY 87
September 30, 1986              100             4278    4378               62.5
December 31, 1986               100             4554    4654               66.5
March 31, 1987                  100              4899    4999              71.4
June 30, 1987                   100             5244    5344               76.3
FY 88
September 30, 1987              100             5520    5620               80.3
December 31, 1987               100             5865    5965               85.2
March 31, 1988                  100              6141    6241              89.2
June 30, 1988                   100             6417    6517               93.1
FY 89
September 30, 1988              100             6642    6742               96.3
December 31, 1988               100              6900    7000             100.0
EAPID
February 1983



- 46 -
Annex 13
page 1 of 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE SMALL ENTERPRISES STUDY
Objective
To collect more reliable data on the small enterprises sector and
re--examine the measures designed to encourage small enterprises and the
regulations governing the sector, with a view to improving the institutional
framework within which small enterprises operate. The study will serve
as a basis for a national program to assist small enterprises.
Organization and Execution of the Study
BRD (Banque Rwandaise de Developpement) will be responsible for
executing the study on the small enterprises sector on behalf of the
Rwandese Government. To this end, BRD will assist in establishing a team
made up of representatives of the various ministries involved (Plan, National
Economy, and Finance) before June 30, 1983 and will take steps to ensure that
the study is carried out in accordance with the attached timetable.
Scope of the Study
A.   Survey of Small Enterprises
The survey will cover small and medium-sized enterprises in Rwanda,
but the focus will be on small enterprises, defined as enterprises with net
assets of between RwFO.5 million and 15 million and between 3 and 30
employees. Special attention will be paid to productive enterprises in
the agroindustrial and manufacturing sectors. The team responsible for
the survey shall:
(i) Ensure that the survey sample covers the main sectors in which
small enterprises are active and wherever possible observes
regional balance;
(ii) prepare a questionnaire designed to collect essential data on
these enterprises (number of employees, techniques employed,
level of education of entrepreneurs, financial structure) and
at the same time ascertain their needs in terms of training
and technical and financial assistance;
(iii) recruit survey workers and supervise their work; and
(iv) analyze and tabulate the results and assist in preparing the
report on small enterprises to be submitted to the Government.
B.   Training and Technical Assistance
(i) Evaluate the adequacy of existing arrangements for training and
assistance available to small enterprises in the fields of
technology, bookkeeping, marketing and management;



- 47 -
Annex 13
page 2 of 3
(ii) on the basis of the information obtained from the survey,
determine additional requirements and draw up detailed propo-
sals for satisfying those needs; and
(iii) estimate the cost of the proposed solutions.
C.    Investment Code
Systematically examineall the provisions of the Investment Code,
its procedures and how it functions, and recommend changes with a view to
facilitating access for small enterprises. Special attention should be
paid to:
(i)  Administration of the Code and procedures for approval of
applications, which seem to be slow and cumbersome;
(ii) the need to lower the current minimum investment of RwFlO million,
which is too high and excludes most small enterprises.
D.    Price Controls
Examine the present system of price controls and recommend
changes if the system is seen to be an obstacle to the development of small
enterpriss.
E.    Government Contracts
Examine policy, administrative procedures and legislation
regarding government contracts in order to determine whether splitting
some government orders into smaller lots might not open up a significant
market for small enterprises.
F.    Industrial Zones
Examine the organization of the existing industrial zone and
evaluate the Government's plans for setting up new zones for small enter-
prises, the advantages of such zones and the capacity of small business-
men to pay the rents required in such zones.
G.    Tax System and Other Administrative and Legal Aspects
Examine the tax system in order to identify and recommend changes
in regard to aspects holding back the development of small enterprises,
together with other administrative and legal formalities such as procedures
for obtaining registration in the commercial register, business licenses,
construction permits, etc.



- 48 -
Annex 13
page 3 of 3
SCHEDULE FOR EXECUTION OF THE SMALL ENTERPRISES STUDY
Establishment of Organization, Installation of
Working Group and Allocation of Tasks to be
Performed.                                           April-June 1983
-     Preparatory Work (including recruitment of
consultants, if needed) and Execution of the
study.                                               July - November 1983
-     Analysis of Data and Drafting of Report by
the Working Group.                                   December 1983 - January 1984
-     Submission of the Report to the Government.           February 1984
-     Dispatch of Final Report to IDA for Comments.        March 1984
-     Preparation of Program for Assistance to
Small Enterprises.                                   April - September 1984
-     Submission of Small Enterprises Program to
the Government.                                      October 1984
-     Dispatch of Small Enterprises Program to IDA.        December 1984



