Document of
The World Bank                           E
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3487-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN MN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$7.0 MILLION
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
March 17, 1983
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                     Rwandese franc (Rf) 91.91
RF 100                      US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNR         -  Banque Nationale du Rwanda - Central Bank
BRD         -  Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
CCCE        -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDI         -  Centre de Developpement Industriel
CIDA        -  Canadian International Development Agency
DEG         -  Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
EDF         -  European Development Fund
KfW         -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbrau
MINECOM     - Ministere de l'Economie  et du Commerce
MAGERWA     -  Magasins Generaux du Rwanda
SMEs        -  Small and Medium Enterprises
SOMIRWA     -  Societe des Mines du Rwanda
SSEs        -  Small Scale Enterprises
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                         =         3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                      =         2.47 acres
1 are (100 m2)                      =         0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km)                    =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           =          0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =         2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                         =         0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                =         2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA
THIRD DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Rwandese Republic
Beneficiary:         Rwandese Development Bank (BRD)
Amount:              SDR 6.5 million (US$7.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend US$6.9 million equivalent
to BRD at an average interest rate of 6.9 percent which
would give BRD a spread of about 5.6 percent as its
average lending rate will be about 12.5 percent.
Funds under the small-scale enterprise component
(US$2.5 million)l/ would be on-lent to BRD at a rate of
5 percent (given the higher administrative costs and
risks associated with this type of operation). Funds
for larger projects/enterprises (US$4.4 million) would
be on-lent at a rate of 8 percent and would have a
flexible amortization schedule that would substantially
conform with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of the subloans approved by BRD under the
proposed credit, subject to a maximum of 15 years,
including a grace period not to exceed five years. The
portion of the credit relent to BRD for SSE financing
would have a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, starting from the date of
credit effectiveness. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project              (i) Objectives: To (a) provide, through an effective
Description:              financial intermediary (the BRD) the needed foreign
exchange resources for high priority investments;
(b) assist in the development of a small-scale
enterprise (SSE) program in Rwanda by helping BRD
implement a pilot program for financing SSE
1/ Small-scale enterprises (SSEs) are defined as having total assets of
less than 15 million Rwandese Francs, annual sales of less than 12
million Rwandese Francs, and less than 30 employees.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
projects and by financing the cost of a study
necessary to develop a nationwide SSE development
program; and (c) help BRD continue developing its
capabilities and evolve into a strong and mature
financial institution.
(ii) Components: The project would provide for:
(a) a line of credit to BRD including: i) at most
US$4.4 million to help BRD finance larger projects;
ii) at least US$2.5 million for BRD's proposed
program (at BRD's request and with IDA's consent,
funds reserved for larger projects could be
reallocated to finance small enterprises); and
(b) US$0.1 million to help Government carry out
studies for the development of an SSE program
and of the interest rate structure in Rwanda.
(iii) Benefits: Private and public sector investment
would be promoted. BRD's capabilities and
procedures particularly as regards assistance to
SSE development would continue to be strengthened
and improved.
(iv) Risks: There is no major risk associated with this
project. For a small development bank, BRD has a
substantial pipeline of projects, which should be
sufficient to support the forecast level of
operations and ensure satisfactory rates of
commitment and disbursement.
Estimated costs 1/:
Local        Foreign        Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
BRD Lending Program                        9.2          17.1          26.3
SSE and Interest Rate Studies              0.1           -             0.1
Total                               9.3          17.1          26.4
1/ Import duties and any taxes would be financed out of that portion of
costs covered by project sponsors.



(iii)
Financing Plan:
(BRD's Operations)
Local       Foreign        Total
(US$ millions equivalent)
IDA                                        -            6.9          6.9
BRD Resources                             6.6           5.0         11.6
Net Cash Generation                       2.6            -           2.6
Other Foreign Exchange Sources             -            5.2          5.2
(including EDF)
Total                             9.2           17.1         26.3
Estimated Disbursements (IDA):
IDA FY                      FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
(US$ millions equivalent)
Annual:                     0.99   1.52   1.52   1.31   1.17   0.49
Cumulative;                 0.99   2.51   4.03   5.34   6.51   7.00
Appraisal Report: No. 4082-RW of March 1, 1983
Rate of Return:    n.a.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD RWANDESE DEVELOPMENT BANK (BRD) PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 6.5 million (US$7.0 million) on
standard IDA terms, to help (a) finance the foreign exchange requirements of the
Rwandese Development Bank (BRD) through the end of 1984 (US$6.9 million of which
US$2.5 million for small-scale enterprises--SSEs 1/) and (b) Government carry
out studies of the interest rate system in Rwanda and to develop a nationwide
SSE program (US$0.1 million). As regards the US$6.9 million for BRD, funds
under the SSE component (US$2.5 million) would be on-lent by Government to BRD
at a rate of 5 percent, while funds for lending to larger projects/enterprises
(US$4.4 million) would be on-lent to BRD at a rate of 8 percent. Funds for
lending to medium and large enterprises would be repaid by BRD to Government
under a flexible amortization schedule that would substantially conform with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of the subloans approved by BRD and
financed under the proposed credit, subject to a maximum of 15 years, including
a grace period not to exceed five years. Given the large number of small loans
expected to be financed under the SSE component, the portion of the credit
relent to BRD for this purpose would have a fixed amortization schedule of 15
years, including 5 years of grace, starting from the date of credit
effectiveness.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report, "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Rwanda was visited by
an economic mission in February 1979 and again in November/December 1981. The
major findings of this last mission are reflected below. Country data are
provided in Annex I.
3.      Rwanda is a small landlocked country, surrounded by Uganda, Tanzania,
Burundi and Zaire. It has the third highest population density of low income
countries, at 210 persons/km2 (following Bangladesh and Sri Lanka), and its GNP
per capita is among the lowest in the world, estimated at about US$240 in 1981.
Rwanda's population of 5.5 million in 1982 is predominantly rural (with only 4.5
percent in urban areas), and lives in small individual farms scattered over
hilly terrain. The balance between food production and population is
precarious, as potentially arable land is scarce, yields of most foodcrops have
1/ See footnote page (i).



-2-
been stagnant, and population is expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent
annually. Twice recently (1974 and 1980), Rwanda had to resort to emergency
food imports. Agriculture (coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) provides most of
the country's foreign exchange earnings from merchandise exports.  Coffee is by
far the most important source (55 percent) followed by mining products (20
percent), mainly cassiterite and wolfram. Rwanda's manufacturing base is
narrow, and growth of modern manufacturing is limited by the small size of the
market and by the lack of raw materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial
skills and skilled manpower. The country, consequently, imports capital goods,
steel, petroleum products, cement and other construction materials, and
virtually every modern consumer product. Its merchandise trade is hampered by
high transportation costs and dependence on neighboring countries for access to
the seaports at Mombasa and Dar es Salaam.
4.      A quantitative assessment of Rwanda's economic performance can only be
tentative, as the national accounts estimates are based upon data of dubious
reliability. These estimates suggest that during the period 1977-81 the rate of
growth of real GDP averaged over 5 percent per annum, on the strength of
reasonably good performance by most sectors, except those engaged in production
for export. The recent growth of the agricultural sector can be explained, to a
significant extent, by good weather conditions, increased world coffee prices in
the late 1970s, improvement of the road network, and the rapid growth of urban
and project-induced demand. Official production data indicate that foodcrop
output (36 percent of GDP) increased at an average annual rate of about 5
percent in the period 1977-81, but this estimate may prove to be overstated. In
any event, it is the judgment of informed observers that the balance between
food production and population remains precarious, as food production is
vulnerable to weather conditions and population is increasing rapidly. With the
exception of tea, the production of export crops was disappointing during
1977-81. Largely influenced by weather, and in spite of substantial increases
in 1978 and 1981, coffee production tended to stagnate.   Absolute declines were
recorded for the country's two other export crops, pyrethrum and cinchona.
After having expanded at an average rate of 11 percent per annum, tea production
also declined in 1982, and the industry has experienced difficulties in
obtaining sufficient quantities of green leaves to process for export (due to
competition from other crops and lack of fertilizers).
5.      Mining production also declined during 1977-81, at an average annual
rate of 4 percent, and Rwanda failed to profit (until recently) from reasonably
favorable international prices, particularly of cassiterite (by far the most
important product). This poor performance has been a consequence of various
factors, among them management problems at SOMIRWA (the mining company),
equipment obsolescence, and substantial increases in production costs (mainly
the wage bill) while world market prices have fallen and the Rwandese franc
(which is linked to the United States dollar) has appreciated vis-a-vis the
country's major trading partners.
6.      Manufacturing growth was, on average, 6 percent during 1977-81, largely
reflecting agricultural performance as an estimated three-quarters of



manufacturing output consists of the transformation of agricultural products,
mainly banana and sorghum, into beer, and agro-industries (coffee, tea, sugar).
Modern manufacturing has been limited to import substitution industries such as
shoes, textiles, soap, plastic utensils, corrugated iron sheets, all of which
rely on imported raw materials. A cement plant located in Cyangugu (southwest
Rwanda) is due to start operations in the next two years and is expected to make
Rwanda self-sufficient in cement.
7.      Tertiary sector activities experienced a fairly rapid expansion during
1977-81. Commerce and transportation increased at an average annual rate of 7
percent reflecting increases in marketed foodcrop production, manufacturing
output, and imports (especially of consumer and intermediate goods). Traffic on
Rwandese roads is estimated to have expanded at about 7 percent per annum, the
fleet of pick-ups more than doubled during 1979-81, and imports of transport
equipment increased at nearly 11 percent in real terms, albeit all from a very
small base.
8.      Traditionally, the Government has pursued prudent fiscal policies.  A
principal indicator of this was the budget surpluses ran during 1977-81 (on
average, 2.5 percent of GDP). The Government's ability to sustain these
surpluses was aided by favorable terms of trade, which served to raise export
duties (particularly in 1977-79, following the rise in coffee prices) and import
duties (insofar as Rwanda's exports financed a relatively large volume of
imports, upon which the revenue structure is highly dependent). Also,
substantial capital inflows facilitated the growth in imports, thereby adding to
government revenues. In 1977-81, nearly 50 percent of central government
revenues (which averaged 10 percent of GDP) came from import and export taxes,
with coffee exports alone contributing 21 percent; taxes on beverages, and on
income and property accounted for most of the remainder. Expenditures were
distributed mainly among administrative services (25 percent), education (26
percent), and defense (20 percent). Expenditures on agriculture and public
works have expanded faster than total expenditures in recent years.
9.      The fiscal situation, however, has deteriorated since 1981.  In contrast
to the preceding years, increases in revenue have fallen short of increases in
expenditure. Budgetary receipts from coffee export duties have stagnated at
lower levels than those of previous years as a result of declining coffee prices
and in spite of higher export volumes. At the same time, there has been a
significant expansion in government expenditures reflecting, inter alia, the
impact of the general wage awards granted in September 1980, the addition of a
new Ministry of Higher Education, and implementation of the education reform.
In an effort to expand the revenue base and increase revenue, the Government
introduced a new business tax in 1981 which, however, has not yielded sufficient
revenues to compensate for the decline in revenue from coffee. As a result of



-4-
these developments, the overall budgetary balance has shifted from a surplus of
RwF 1.2 billion in 1980 (equivalent to 1 percent of GDP) to deficits of RwF 2.2
billion and RwF 2.6 billion in 1981 and 1982, respectively.  In an attempt to
arrest the fiscal deterioration, the Government increased import tariffs in
January 1982 and taxes on beer and cigarettes, in January 1983.
10.     The Government has been traditionally quite conse.rvative in its monetary
and credit policies. Inflationary pressures have arisen mainly from supply
shortages caused by frequent disruptions of supply routes through neighboring
countries, increased international transport costs, and increased prices of
imports and domestic foodstuffs.  Inflation averaged 10.6 percent per annum
during 1977-81; it peaked at 15.8 percent in 1979, primarily as a result of the
closing of the Uganda border, but also reflecting higher transport costs
following the 1979-80 oil price rise. The inflation rate fell to 7.3 percent
in 1980 and declined further to 6.5 percent in 1981, as trade flows through
Uganda were back to normal, and the rate of increase of import prices
decelerated.
11.     Rwanda's increased export earnings (until 1980) and large inflows of
foreign grants and loans enabled the country, during 1977-81, to increase
imports substantially and to build up international reserves. In real terms,
imports of goods and non-factor services expanded at an average annual rate of 5
percent and averaged 27 percent of GDP. At the same time, Rwanda's gross
international reserves reached, at end-1981, an amount equivalent to nearly
seven months of estimated 1982 imports of goods and non-factor services. In
1982, however, Rwanda suffered its first reserve loss in many years, as coffee
export receipts remained at about the same (depressed) levels of the previous
two years, foreign grants and loans declined, while imports continued to expand
rapidly. At end-1982, gross foreign official reserves were down to the
equivalent of five months of projected 1983 imports of goods and non-factor
services.
12.     Rwanda's Third Development Plan, like its predecessor, remains
essentially a qualitative document which provides a broad statement of national
development priorities 1/ but lacks a multi-year sectoral investment program,
1/ As in the Second Plan, five of the six main goals of the Third Plan aim at
the satisfaction of basic needs: (i) food self-sufficiency; (ii) job
creation, to ensure an adequate family income; (iii) education and training;
(iv) improvement of basic health services; and (v) provision of minimum
standard housing.



- 5 -
key input and output targets (in physical as well as financial terms), and an
agenda of policy and institutional reforms for implementing the overall
strategy.  Other important weaknesses of the planning process are:  the absence
of a mechanism for periodically assessing the changing outlook regarding
resource availabilities and the feasibility of the projected levels of
investment and the weak linkage between the planning and budgetary processes.
In consequence of these deficiencies, Rwanda's plans have not served as
effective instruments of economic management. Nevertheless, the Government has
made serious efforts to pursue the Plan's objectives. The limited success of
these efforts has been largely due to the country's structural constraints
(among them the critical population problem), institutional weaknesses (stemming
largely from lack of skilled personnel), and insufficiency of domestic financial
resources. At the same time, the lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation of
institutional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned agencies
have limited the country's capacity to absorb external resources.
13.     The Government has taken steps to address these problems.  Of particular
importance have been actions concerned with the extremely rapid population
growth, and the lack of education and training. In 1980 it established the
National Population Office (ONAPO) to plan, coordinate, and mDnitor all
population activities. ONAPO has started to sensitize the population about the
implications of excessive demographic pressure on the country's limited
resources, a few pilot family planning programs have been set up, and a
nationwide fertility survey is scheduled to start in mid-1983 which is expected
to provide valuable information on the potential demand for family planning.
Obviously, the impact of these measures will only be felt in the long-run.
Meanwhile, the population is growing at 3.6 percent annually and expected to
double by the year 2000. To address the problem of lack of education and
training, the Government introduced an education reform in 1979 whose objectives
are appropriate to the country's needs, but whose implementation has been
hampered by financial constraints and the lack of teachers.
14.     As mentioned earlier, external aid (of US$25-30 per capita) was an
important catalyst to the country's favorable economic performance during
1977-81. This aid has been mainly for infrastructure and technical assistance,
most of which (58 percent) has benefitted agriculture, education, and health
care. These three sectors, together with transport and communication, received
nearly 64 percent of the aid extended to Rwanda in 1981, an emphasis which is in
line with the country's objectives and priorities. The principal sources of
foreign assistance and their average share during 1977-81 were Belgium (27
percent), the European Development Fund (14 percent), the Federal Republic of
Germany (8 percent), IDA (7 percent), and France (6 percent).



- 6 -
15.     Economic management in recent years has been prudent, as evidencedby
relatively low inflation rates, low debt service ratio, and avoidance of
projects of dubious economic justification.  This was andoubtedly facilitated by
substantial aid inflows and favorable terms of trade in the early part of the
period. The terms of trade have deteriorated since 1980. It is thus evident
that the country's need for external assistance will increase substantially.
Its external debt is still manageable.  At end-1981, the medium- and long-term
external debt outstanding (disbursed only) amounted to US$172 million
equivalent, or 15 percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio was equivalent to
only 1.8 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services. Hence, there
remains scope for further borrowing. However, given the poverty of the country,
its overwhelming constraints and vulnerability, and its unfavorable medium-term
prospects, external funds should continue to be provided in the form of grants
or loans at highly concessionary terms, and include a high proportion of local
cost financing and non-project assistance.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
16.     Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agriculture
production. Rwanda has received eighteen IDA credits totalling US$188
million,of which five (totalling US$69.0 million) were for roads, seven
(US$80.6 million) for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, two
(US$18.0 million reduced to US$16.4 million) for education, one (US$7.5 million)
for telecommunications and one (US$5.0 million) for technical assistance.
There have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was
signed in 1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment
of up to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.     The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.  A
fourth credit for a highway maintenance project (Credit 769-RW), which became
effective in August 1978, is three-quarters completed and is progressing
satisfactorily. A US$25.9 million credit for a Fifth Highway Project became
effective on December 8, 1982.
18.     The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed in
July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed. A second credit of
US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development for
the Mutara region, was declared effective in May 1980, experienced start-up
problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical assistance but is
proceeding satisfactorily now. The Cinchona Project (US$1.8 million) is nearing



- 7-
completion and has progressed well. The Bugesera/Gisaka/Mingongo mixed farming
and rural development project (BGM I) is about completed; construction,
procurement and budgeting have proceeded satisfactorily though the results of
foodcrop and plant improvement components are below appraisal estimates due to a
lack of appropriate technical packages for the relatively dry project area.
Given this, the BGM II project, for which a US$16.3 million credit was approved
July 13, 1982, emphasizes research for semi-arid crop development. A project to
support reforestation programs in Kigali, Butare and Gisenyi Prefectures (IDA
Credit 1039-RW for US$21.0 million) became effective on November 11, 1981; the
project includes a study of renewable energy sources for Rwanda. A US$15.0
million credit for a coffee improvement/foodcrops project in the Lake Kivu
region became effective January 18, 1982; all staff have been recruited, the
first year extension program has been completed successfully, and research
activities have commenced. A credit for an education project (US$8.0 million)
became effective in 1975; physical implementation has been complicated by
procurement problems (para. 19 below). The first credit of US$4.0 million to
the Rwandese Development Bank (BRD) has now been fully committed. BRD's
performance under the credit has been highly satisfactory. A second credit of
US$5.2 million to BRD became effective in January 1980. The credit is nearly
fully committed. Additional information on the two BRD credits is contained in
paragraph 43.   A credit for a telecommunications project (US$7.5 million),
which aims at reducing Rwanda's geographic isolation from other countries and at
improving internal telecommunications facilities, became effective July 7, 1981,
and is proceeding satisfactorily.
19.     In fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$28.9
million compared to new commitments of US$42.4 million. In the same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent; this is about average for countries of the
Eastern Africa Region. While disbursement performance in general is
satisfactory, notable difficulties have arisen in the case of the First
Education Project. The lack of acceptable record keeping caused significant
delays in the processing of disbursement requests. However, following a
UNESCO-assisted final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops
financed under the project, disbursements have resumed. Implementation of the
Second Education Project approved June 15, 1982, should be less affected by
similar weaknesses given the familiarity with Bank Group procedures now acquired
in the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education.
20.     One of the major constraints on Rwanda's development is the shortage of
technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits project
preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance and on-the-job
training of Rwandese staff are therefore a salient feature of the Bank's program
for Rwanda, either under individual projects in the various sectors or through
the Technical Assistance Project (declared effective November 22, 1982).



- 8 -
21.      For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain on
rural development, the main objective being to increase food production as well
as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis will also
be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on population planning
and support to basic education and skills training to improve agricultural
productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue. Further investment is also justified for infrastructure
(including water supply facilities -- a project for which is being prepared --
and roads to reduce the country's isolation and provide incentives to further
intensification of agriculture as well as increased specialization and
diversification through better marketing). Another area requiring special
attention is energy to lessen the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their
impact on the balance of payments. A study of renewable energy sources is being
financed under IDA credit 1039-RW (para. 18), and a regional hydroelectric power
project on the Ruzizi river is being prepared.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
The Industrial Sector
22.      The industrial sector, broadly defined, comprises mining, manufacturing
and construction, each of which includes modern as well as traditional or
artisanal segments. Although industry (thus defined) is the largest sector
after agriculture (accounting for 21 percent of GDP in 1981), it is small even
by African standards, with value added estimated at about US$270 million in
1981. Manufacturing is the dominant activity with a share of 73 percent cf the
sector's value added. The main production is of consumer goods, particularly
food and beverages, textiles, shoes and a few household goods. The production
and processing of such agricultural products as coffee and tea is also important
and contributes to the country's foreign exchange earnings from merchandise
exports (70 percent in 1981). Mining, which is largely for cassiterite and
wolfram, is dominated by one company, SOMIRWA (Socifte des Mines du Rwanda).
Cassiterite and wolfram accounted for about 17 percent of total merchandise
exports in 1981.
23.     The growth of industry in general, and of manufacturing in particular,
continues to be affected by long existing constraints -- a small domestic
market, low per capita income, and limited possibilities for exporting to
neighboring countries. In addition, investment costs are high (largely due to
high transportation costs and the long time required for imports to arrive --
which necessitates holding large stocks of inputs and spare parts). Finally,
the shortage of skilled manpower and infrastructure deficiencies discourage
investors.
24.     Available data indicate that in addition to a large brewery there are
about 100 relatively small enterprises in Rwanda. Employment in manufacturing
was estimated at about 35,000 in 1980, or about 1.5 percent of the total active
population. Food manufacturing continues to dominate the sector accounting for
over half of the value added in 1981. This sub-sector remains largely



- 9 -
traditional and artisanal although there have been some attempts to modernize
traditional processes such as the production of banana beer and wine. What data
are available suggest that annual investments in manufacturing in current terms
increased from US$8.7 million equivalent in 1977 to about US$13.0 million
equivalent in 1980, an increase of about 10 percent in real terms. The main
factors that continue to favor such investments are the unexploited local
opportunities in either import substitution or in the processing of local
materials for export, the rapidly increasing transportation costs that give
locally produced goods a natural protection, and Rwanda's comparative political
stability and a relatively open economy.
25.     Industrial Policy.  Rwanda's industrial policy has attempted over the
years to establish a framework within which the limited potential of the sector
can be achieved, mainly through the efforts of the private sector. This policy
gives priority to industries that use local raw materials, some of which for
export, are labor intensive, and substitute for imports. Among the measures
taken by the Government to encourage industry, the most important are: (i)
liberalization of the investment code which provides firms, whose share capital
is about RwF 10 million or more, with such incentives as an exemption from or
reduction in the rates of customs duties and taxes on imported capital goods,
spare parts and inputs, as well as from taxes on profits for at least five
years; (ii) an industrial zone (on a site close to Kigali-- this zone, financed
by FED, contains about 10 enterprises and is likely to be fully occupied soon);
(iii) a bureau for the promotion of industry (established in 1977); (iv) a
special guarantee fund (started in 1978) to provide special guarantees to small
enterprises on loans they obtain from participating financial institutions; and
(v) regional cooperation, in particular within the Economic Community of the
Great Lakes, which provides a framework for economic cooperation between Rwanda,
Burundi and Zaire through entities such as a regional development bank.
26.     Sector Issues.  The Second Five-Year Plan (para. 12) and the Third
(1982-86) Five-Year Plan give priority in the industrial sector to increased
production of basic consumption goods, to processing locally produced
agricultural and mineral products and to maximizing employment. The promotion
and preparation of industrial projects, however, still suffer from serious
institutional shortcomings. First, the procedures that govern applications
under the investment code and the granting of incentives should be simplified.
Also, given the role that small-scale enterprises (SSEs) are expected to play in
the development of industry in Rwanda, the code should be reviewed to determine
what incentives could and should be provided to SSEs. A full review of this
investment code is planned by the Government, and the technical assistance
included in the proposed project will assist in this effort. Second, there is
need to strengthen and improve the capacity to prepare projects. The Bureau for
Industrial Promotion (para. 25 (iii)) is starting to develop some projects, but
it is too early to judge the usefulness of its work. The effort to identify and
develop projects is also likely to benefit from the IDA-financed technical
assistance project (para. 20), as well as from the National Studies Bureau
(BUNEP), the autonomous agency for project preparation activities set up under
the auspices of the Ministry of Planning.



- 10 -
27.     The Small-Scale Enterprise Sub-sector.  Rwanda has no reliable  data on
the number of SSEs and their employment, investment and output. Generally, SSEs
can be found in fishing, dairy, poultry, grain milling, bakery, garment, brick-
and tile-making, and wood and metal works products activities as well as in such
service areas as auto repair. Before an appropriate nationwide SSE development
program can be devised, there is need for gathering more reliable information on
this sector through a comprehensive survey. As the Government does not possess
the necessary resources to undertake such a task (which never before was
undertaken), the proposed project will help in this respect by providing study
funds adequate to finance consultant services and the local costs of the survey,
which will be part of the overall SSE study (paras. 29 and 50).
28.     SSE Potential and Development Strategy.  The constraints on SSE
development include limitations in available technical and management know-how,
insufficient knowledge of the available resources and opportunities, lack of
active support by financial institutions and lack of incentive measures
specifically designed for the sector. There are indications, however, that the
potential for SSE development may be considerable and that attractive investment
potential exists for goods such as improved bricks, concrete blocks and tiles,
agricultural tools as well as for food production and processing. BRD has
received in recent years requests for financing from many SSEs which it could
not consider for various reasons, notably shortage of staff and lack of
specialized skills. These requests have averaged about US$1.0 million
equivalent per year, or more than three times the average level of BRD's SSE
loan approvals in recent years. With some encouragement, it is likely that the
level of SSE requests would have been even higher.
29.     Although the Government has not yet developed an adequate framework
for the promotion of SSEs, there are expressions of support for SSEs,
specifically in the Third Development Plan; however, no specific policy or
strategy exist for SSE development. BRD's intention to lauch a new intensive
effort to promote and finance SSEs promises to be a breakthrough, but requires
the formulation of a nationwide SSE development program.  One of the studies
financed under the proposed project will therefore identify the institutional
and policy framework of such program.
The Financial Sector
30.     The most important institutions comprising Rwanda's financial system are
the Central Bank (Banque Nationale du Rwanda), two commercial banks, the
Development Bank of Rwanda (BRD), the People's Banks (Banques Populaires), the
Savings Association (Caisse d'Epargne), and the Mortgage Bank (Caisse
Hypothecaire). While the People's Banks have agencies in most of the communes,
the commercial banks and the Savings Association have branches only in a few of
the provincial towns offering limited service. The Central Bank (Banque



- 11 -
Nationale du Rwanda - BNR) is responsible for supervising the country's
financial institutions, formulating monetary and credit policies, and managing
the international reserves. The two commercial banks (Banque Commerciale du
Rwanda and Banque de Kigali, established in 1963 and 1966, respectively), are
majority foreign owned and managed. They finance exports, particularly coffee,
and imports, and account for about 86 percent of the short-term credit extended
in Rwanda; their combined medium- and long-term lending accounted for only about
20 percent of their total outstanding at December 31, 1981. The Development
Bank (BRD) is the most important among the term-lending institutions, accounting
for 43 percent of the total outstanding term credit at the end of 1981. The
Savings Association, next in importance, provided 24 percent of total term
credit at December 31, 1981.  The Caisse Hypothecaire, the mortgage association
which was recently established for financing housing and building construction
projects costing US$5,500 or more, is still relatively inactive.
31.     Inflation.  In recent years, prices in Rwanda have been mostly
influenced by the seasonal fluctuations of crops, the border closings with
Uganda, and the movement of the Rwandese franc, which is linked to the US
dollar, vis-a-vis European currencies (most of Rwanda's imports originate in
Europe). After increasing by 7 percent in 1976, the general consumer price
index increased by an average of 13.5 percent p.a. in 1977 and 1978 and jumped
to 15.8 percent in 1979 (a year in which there was a prolonged border closing
with Uganda). In 1980, inflation fell to 7.3 percent p.a. largely because of
good harvests and the lack of transport problems, combined with some
appreciation in the Rwandese Franc. Continued good crops and appreciation of
the Rwandese Franc contributed to a continuation of this trend in 1981, when the
general price index is estimated to have increased by about 6.5 percent.
In 1982, the rate of inflation increased slightly to about 10 percent.
According to IMF/Bank estimates, inflation is projected to average about this
same level over the next four years.
32.     Interest rate ceilings are fixed by BNR, which put into effect a
substantial upward revision in November 1979. These rates have remained
substantially unchanged and appear to be adequate for the time being, although
they may have to be increased in future, depending on the evolution of inflation
(para. 31). The maximum term deposit rates for periods between one month and
one year vary from 6 to 7 percent and range from 8 to 9.5 percent for savings of
longer than one year in duration.



- 12 -
Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
33.     Objectives and Role of BRD.  BRD was established in 1967 with a broad
mandate to encourage the creation and development of productive enterprises in
Rwanda through the provision of long- and medium-term loans or guarantees and
equity participations. Since its creation, BRD, which is the main institution
providing term financing in Rwanda, has played a significant role in financing
investment, particularly by the private sector. BRD has succeeded in securing
foreign exchange from several bilateral institutions. Its ability to provide
funds, coupled with its experience, has given it a major role in the
implementation of the second and third Five-Year Plans. It is the only
institution in Rwanda with the expertise to undertake a proper overall
evaluation of investment projects.
34.     BRD Ownership and Resources.  BRD's share capital consists of "A"
(public) shares, which must account for at least 55 percent of the total and are
reserved for the Government and other public agencies and institutions, and "B"
(private) shares for private and foreign shareholders. There are no differences
between the rights and privileges of either category of shareholders. Besides
its share capital, BRD's local resources include retained earnings, two special
investment funds, and two loans from the Government and the Central Bank (BNR)
at very concessionary terms. BRD's foreign exchange resources consist of seven
loans/credits from three different donors (CCCE, IDA and KfW) and a large line
of credit provided by the Central Bank out of the proceeds of an IMF Trust Fund
loan. The foreign loans carry interest rates between 0.75 and 6 percent and
have maturities ranging from 11 to 50 years. The two CCCE loans are tied to
French procurement and one of them has been granted for financing a specific
project at an interest rate of 9 percent p.a. On the other loans, there are no
conditions attached to restrict BRD's flexibility of operation. The Government
carries the foreign exchange risk on all loans.
35.     Management, Staffing and Organization.  BRD's recently appointed (July
1982) Managing Director is young and dynamic and has experience in the
Government, business and banking. He is assisted by two expatriate experts for
general administration, investments and project evaluation. The remainder of
BRD staff (64, of whom 20 are professionals) are Rwandese. Most professional
staff are university graduates trained in banking related fields. Training
needs within BRD are met mainly through practical on-the-job instruction
although some staff have benefitted from specialized courses abroad. Since its
establishment, BRD's staff has been organized into two departments: (i) The
Investment Department which is responsible for project evaluation, supervision,
and provision of technical assistance to enterprises assisted by BRD; and (ii)
the Administration and Finance Department which is responsible for disbursement
and loan collection, as well as for maintaining BRD's accounts and administering



- 13 -
the local and foreign resources. In the past, when BRD was small, this
organization was adequate, but with the rapid increase in the volume and
complexity of operations, BRD has become aware of the need to strengthen the
top-level management of the institution and reorganize itself to handle better
an increasing level of more complex operations.  In July 1982, several
organizational changes were introduced which should contribute to greater
efficiency. These include: creation of an SSE division to appraise and
supervise SSE projects; creation of a separate disbursement and loan collection
unit; and appointment of separate managers for the investment and
administration/finance departments.
36.     Operating Policy and Procedures.  BRD's present policy statement is
satisfactory. It does, however, require the changes noted below to strengthen
the analysis of the economic impact of projects, to simplify the interest rate
structure, and to adapt some policies to SSE requirements. BRD has made
significant progress in improving the quality and standard of its appraisal
work, particularly the financial and technical aspects.  Projects are thoroughly
analyzed and, in some cases, redesigned during appraisal to adapt them to
economic and financial conditions in Rwanda. In contrast, the economic analysis
of subprojects is still relatively weak and needs to be strengthened.
Calculation of net foreign exchange earnings/savings or the incremental
value-added is done in an inconsistent way, while the economic rate of return is
only estimated for large import substitution projects. To correct these
shortcomings, BRD has been asked in the future to calculate the economic rate of
return for all non-service sector projects above US$200,000; amendment of its
Policy Statement to reflect this requirement is a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b)(ii) of the Development Credit Agreement).
BRD's supervision procedures are satisfactory with staff normally visiting each
project under supervision twice a year. Projects encountering difficulties
receive additional visits. BRD has been very active in project promotion and
has successfully identified a large number of investment opportunities in
industry, agriculture, as well as in the service sectors; this has spurred BRD's
growth at a rapid pace in the last several years. BRD now intends to devote
efforts to the promotion of small projects and has already initiated studies in
a number of subsectors (woodworking, garages, tea-growing, quinquina) to assess
market and investment opportunities. BRD policies concerning foreign exchange
risk, interest rates, disbursements and audits are discussed in paragraphs 46,
49, 54 and 55 of this report.
37.     Operations.  As of December 31, 1981, BRD had approved loans and equity
investments amounting to RwF 2.4 billion. Most equity participations were made
before the mid-1970's with loan approvals increasing in importance in the
mid-1970's and expanding rapidly to the present. Industry has become the
predominant sector in the last three years accounting for 48 percent of total



- 14 -
loan approvals. Other sectors of importance include serviees (garages and
storage). Because BRD is the only source of foreign exchange term loans in
Rwanda, it has been involved in financing all sizes of projects ranging from
large-scale projects of RwF 240 million (US$2.6 million) to small-scale project-
amounting to RwF 0.5 million (US$5,440). Generally, BRD keeps the size of its
investments within 20 percent of net worth in order to spread the risks and in
accordance with its exposure policy. On a few projects for which its
intervention exceeded the 20 percent ratio, it has obtained adequate
supplementary guarantees (mostly from Government). Projects typically have
financial rates of return in excess of 15 percent and an estimated investment
(including initial working capital) per job created in the range of
US$2,500-3,000 for small enterprises and US$25,000-30,000 for medium and large
enterprises.
38.     Financial Condition.  BRD is a sound and creditworthy institution.  In
1981, its term debt/equity ratio was about 0.7:1.0, well within the agreed 3:1
limit, while its debt service coverage ratio was 2.2. Of the medium- and
long-term debt totalling RwF 677.8 million, RwF 551.6 million was in foreign
exchange on which the Government carries the foreign exchange risk. The
remainder was local currency borrowings from the Government and the Central
Bank. BRD has a conservative provisions policy which offers adequate protection
against losses on the portfolio. Debts considered doubtful or bad amounted to
less than 2 percent of the portfolio as of Decembser 31, 1981. Total arrears of
more than three months at the end of March 1982 amounted to less than one
percent of the portfolio. BRD's liquidity position is very strong and is
expected to remain so as a result of substantial loan repayments by clients in
the next three to four years. During negotiations it was agreed that BRD would
maintain a debt/equity ratio of 3:1 (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
39.     BRD and SSE's.  BRD has undertaken a review of its role in financing
SSEs.  In the seven years ending December 31  1981, 44 percent of BRD's 73 loan
approvals were for small enterprises (SSEs) Ix but only 3.1 percent in terms of
amount. This level of approval was much lower than the actual demand for
loans. Because of staffing constraints and the lower risks associated with
large loans, BRD investigated on average only about 40 SSE loan applications per
year, representing aggregate annual loan requests of about RwF 100 million.
None of BRD's 13 large enterprise clients had arrears of over three months at
March 31, 1982, while two of eleven medium-size clients and 11 of 25 small
enterprise clients were in arrears at that date. On the other hand, BRD
analysis shows that several factors could alleviate the negative financial
impact of SSE lending. First, more experience in the sector should lead to
improved repayment performance through better criteria to select projects and
promoters. Second, the current streamlining of loan processing procedures for
1/ For SEE definition, see footnote, page (i); medium-scale enterprises are
defined as having net assets of less than RwF 75 million.



- 15 -
for SSEs should hold down administrative costs. Third, an increase in BRD
lending rates should help improve its average spread (para. 49). Fourth,
continuing access by BRD to Government's guarantee fund should help minimize the
financial impact on BRD of bad debts on SSE loans. To facilitate expansion of
BRD's SSE program, assurances were obtained during negotiations that BRD will
maintain its participation in the Government's Guarantee Fund (Section 3.05 of
the Project Agreement).
40.     Bank Strategy.  The Bank's strategy in the industrial sector has evolved
gradually over the years from a purely institution-building effort to the
establishment of a dialogue with the Government on sector policy issues.
Under the first two IDA credits (para. 42), the main objective of Bank
assistance was to help BRD develop into a sound financial institution. That
objective is now largely achieved. BRD is strong financially and has relatively
experienced staff. With this third IDA credit, it is proposed to begin a new
phase in which the Bank will assist BRD and Government in starting a serious
effort to define policies for the SSE sector and help develop SSEs, while
continuing to strengthen BRD under its new management. The Bank has already
provided BRD and the Government with a consultant to help prepare the SSE
component of the proposed project. In addition, a review of the SSE/artisan
sector was carried out under the World Bank/UNIDO Cooperative Program. The
proposed project will help to reorient BRD's operations and increase its lending
to SSEs, while also providing support to help Government develop a national SSE
program for which the Association might consider further assistance in the
future. Finally, the Bank will be joining efforts with other UN agencies in
helping Government establish regional institutions and define more clearly the
potential for regional cooperation in the field of industry.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.     The proposed project would be the third IDA operation in support of the
Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (paras. 33-39). An appraisal mission visited
Rwanda in April 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 7 to
18, 1983; the Rwandese delegation was headed by Mr. Cleophas Mugaragu, Director
General of the BRD. A detailed description of the project components is in the
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4082-RW), dated March 1, 1983, being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary Project data are
summarized in Annex III.
First and Second Development Bank Projects
42.     BRD has benefitted so far from two IDA credits: Cr. 655-RW for US$4.0
million, approved in July 1976 and effective in March 1977; and Cr. 896-RW for
US$5.2 million, approved in April 1979 and effective in January 1980. The first



- 16 -
credit is now fully disbursed, while the second is about 80 percent committed
and, as of January 31, 1983, had disbursed US$1.1 million. Thirteen subprojects
had been financed by IDA as of January 31, 1983, of which three were below the
free limit. These subprojects were well designed and fully justified on
technical and financial grounds. The largest subproject (US$3.5 million, of
which US$1.2 million was refinanced by the Association) was to help SOMIRWA
(Societe des Mines du Rwanda) rehabilitate its mining operations and implement
its first five-year development program which ended in 1981.  SOMIRWA now
employs about 8,500 workers in addition to the 2,000 artisan miners who extract
and sell ores to the Company. The second largest subproject (subloan of US$1.2
million) was to assist MAGERWA, a storage company in which BRD is the main
shareholder, in renewing and expanding its facilities (which had become
insufficient to meet the country's needs). Of the remaining eleven subprojects,
six were for industry and assisted firms in developing/expanding their
production line (plastic products, corrugated iron sheets, textile) or
diversifying their operations into new activities; five were for tourism
development, purchase of printing equipment and materials, and financing of
equipment for automobile and truck repair. In terms of geographical
distribution, the subprojects tended to be concentrated in and around Kigali.
All subprojects have high financial rates of return, often in excess of 15
percent, and those which are in operation show returns comparable to appraisal
estimates. Although the economic rate of return has not been calculated for all
the subprojects, available data show that those of an import substitution
character generally operate without special protection, are competitive with
imports and have saved the country significant amounts of foreign exchange.
Project Description and Objectives
43.     The proposed project includes two components:
(a) A line of credit to BRD comprising:
(i) US$4.4 million to help BRD finance larger projects;
(ii) US$2.5 million for BRD's proposed SSE program; and
(b) US$0.1 million to help Government carry out studies and develop an SSE
program.
The proposed credit would thus help BRD, an effective financial intermediary, to
continue contributing to the development of the productive sectors of the
economy in line with the strategy of Rwanda's Third Five-Year Development
Plan. More specifically, the objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) provide the needed foreign exchange resources for priority capital
investments (both SSE and larger prospects);
(b) finance the cost of studies necessary to develop a nationwide SSE
program and to determine how the interest rate system could be further
rationalized and contribute better to Government development objectives;
and



- 17 -
(c) help BRD continue developing its capabilities and evolve into a mature
financial institution.
Line of Credit to BRD
44.     Eligibility.  All subprojects within BRD's scope of operations would be
eligible for financing. They would have to be financially sound, selected by
BRD in accordance with its investment strategy and justified on the basis of a
full economic analysis, including calculation of the economic rate of return for
all non-service sector projects above US$200,000. SSE subprojects would be
selected and appraised according to a simplified format agreed with the
Association during appraisal. The free limit for an individual subproject would
be US$200,000, and the aggregate free limit US$2.5 million. As all SSE
sub-projects would be below the free limit, the Association would review in
detail the first ten submitted by BRD to ensure that the simplified format
agreed upon is used effectively.
45.     On-lending Rate.  Since the Association would be providing about 57
percent of BRD's foreign exchange gap during 1983-85, the on-lending rate of the
proposed credit would have a major impact on BRD's future profitability. During
negotiations it was agreed that: (i) BRD would raise its relending rates to
levels which should permit it to earn an average interest rate of about 12.5
percent; and (ii) IDA funds for financing SSEs (US$2.5 million) would be on-lent
to BRD by the Government at an interest rate of 5 percent, given the much larger
administrative costs and risks associated with this type of operation, while
funds for lending to larger enterprises (US$4.4 million) would carry a rate of 8
percent. This would result in an average interest rate of 6.9 percent (as
compared with 6 percent under the second IDA credit--para. 42) and would give
BRD an average spread of about 5.6 percent (Section 3.01 (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement). Terms and conditions of on-lending from the Government to
BRD would be spelled out in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; signature of this
Agreement by both parties is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
46.     Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Government has thus far carried the foreign
exchange risk without a fee. It is recommended that this arrangement continue
under the proposed credit (Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). This is justified on several grounds. BRD has already agreed to
raise its interest rates to real positive levels and has promised that it will
review these rates with the Association annually (para. 49 (iv). Thus, adding a
fee for the foreign exchange risk would increase further the real cost of
resources to investors which Government views as running counter to its policy
of encouraging term investment in productive enterprises.
47.     Service Charge and Commitment Fees.  For the same reason discussed in
para. 46 above, it was also agreed that BRD would (i) pay to Government the 0.75
percent service charge only from the date of subproject approval, and (ii) be
exempted from the IDA commitment fee which will be borne by the Government.



- 18 -
48.     Amortization Schedule.  In conformity with the normal IBRD/IDA lending
policy to DFSs, funds for lending to medium and large enterprises (US$4.4
million) would have a flexible amortization schedule that would substantially
conform with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the subloans
approved by BRD and financed under the proposed credit, subject to a maximum of
15 years, including a grace period not to exceed five years. Given the large
number of small loans expected to be financed under the SSE component, the
portion of the credit relent to BRD for this purpose (US$2.5 million) would have
a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, starting
from the date of credit effectiveness.
49.     BRD Interest Rates.  Following a general readjustment of interest rates
in November 1979, BRD revised its interest rate policy and adopted a system
whereby the rates charged to clients depend on three factors: (i) the maturity
of the loan (medium or long-term); (ii) the sector; and (iii) BRD's own
estimation of the project's financial rate of return (FROR). The "basic" rate
varies from 8 to 10 percent for medium-term loans, and from 9 to 11 percent for
long-term loans, depending on the profitability of the project. Except for
agriculture which is exempted, sector differentials are then added to the
"basic" rate. In addition, a flat fee of 0.75 percent of the loan amount is
paid at signature and a commission of one percent is charged on undisbursed
funds. This interest rate structure applies to all local and foreign currency
loans with the exception of two foreign lines of credit which have special
onlending conditions. The result is a very complicated system of interest rates
which is not justified from the point of view of economic efficiency, penalizes
good projects, is arbitrary and results in a relative low average interest rate
(now about 10 percent p.a. on the portfolio). At negotiations, BRD undertook
(i) to simplify its interest rate structure by eliminating FROR as a criterion
for determining interest rates; (ii) not to give any interest rate preferential
to SSEs; (iii) to increase all rates by 1 to 2 percentage points; and (iv) to
set interest rates at positive levels in real terms and to review the level and
structure of interest rates with IDA at least once a year (Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement). Further, Government undertook to carry out a study on
interest rates in Rwanda by March 31, 1984 to determine how the system could be
further rationalized and better contribute to the achievement of
Government's development objectives (Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement). The terms of reference as well as the timetable for this study were
agreed during negotiations. Amendment of BRD's Policy Statement in order to
achieve positive interest rates on all loans constitutes a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
SSE Study Component
50.     The Government recognizes the importance of developing SSEs and has
agreed to carry out a study of the issues related to the development of a



- 19 -
comprehensive SSE program in Rwanda. Accordingly, it was agreed during
negotiations that: BRD would take the lead in organizing and establishing a
working group which will carry out this study for the Government; BRD will
supervise the work of this group and coordinate its activities with the
different ministries concerned (Plan, Economy and Commerce, and Finance). The
study would address specific policy issues affecting the development of the SSE
sector (such as investment incentives and the procurement system). Detailed
terms of reference for this component were discussed and agreed with the
Government and BRD at negotiations. The SSE study would lay the basis for
drawing up an SSE development program in Rwanda which would be completed and
discussed with IDA by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.01 (a) (iii), 3.03 and 3.04
of the Development Credit Agreement). Consultants for the studies cited would
be employed in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association and on the basis of the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants
(Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Commitments
51.     For the project period, 1983-85, commitments are estimated at US$26.3
million, of which US$17.2 million is foreign exchange. In the past, BRD
financed on average about a third of the investment costs (the remaining costs
being covered by subproject sponsors and other sources).  Thus, the US$26.3
million forecast commitments are likely to result in about US$80 million of
investments.
Financing Plan for BRD Operations 1983-85
52.                                                  US$million
Local     Foreign       Total
Total Commitments                             9.2        17.1         26.3
Resources Available for Commitment            6.6         5.0         11.6
Resource Gap                                  2.6        12.1         14.7
Financed by:
Net Cash Generation                           2.6          -           2.6
Third IDA Line of Credit                       -          6.9          6.9
Other Foreign Exchange Sources                 -          5.2          5.2
(including EDF)
2.6       12.1          14.7
IDA would thus cover about 57 percent of BRD's foreign resource gap, or about 40
percent of its total foreign resource requirements for the period 1983-85. BRD
has already approached other foreign donors and is expected to be able to raise
the balance of its needs.



- 20 -
Procurement
53.     While the responsibility for selecting suppliers rests with the
subproject promoters, BRD wants to be satisfied that the items to be purchased
are at the lowest possible cost and suitable to the planned operation. For
larger subprojects, several quotations are obtained during appraisal, and in
cases where substantial construction is involved, BRD usually requires
competitive bidding. Since subprojects financed by BRD only involve procurement
packages of a relatively modest size, International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
would not be suitable. BRD requires funds to be paid first, then disburses
against presentation of invoices or relevant documentation. These procedures
are adequate.
Disbursements
54.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows: (i)
100 percent of local and foreign costs of the SSE and interest rate studies and
(ii) for BRD subloans financed under the line of credit (a) 100 percent of
c.i.f. cost of goods and services imported for eligible subprojects; (b) 80
percent of the cost of locally purchased goods; and (c) 65 percent of the total
cost of construction and civil works, representing the foreign exchange
component (Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). Disbursements are
expected to be completed over 6 years, or by December 1988.
Audits and Reporting
55.     Since 1976, when it was agreed under the first IDA credit that an
independent auditing firm would verify BRD's accounts, the Nairobi based firm of
Pannell, Kerr, Forster and Co., has been auditing BRD's accounts. The audits
have been satisfactory and in line with the Association requirements.
Under the proposed credit, BRD will continue to have its accounts and financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
will furnish to the Association certified copies of its audited financial
statements and its annual report within six months after the end of the fiscal
year (Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement). BRD will also submit to the
Association quarterly reports which would include inter alia the following:
financial statements, arrears and resources position statements,  progress of
operations and notes on major projects in difficulty. Government and BRD will
also submit a project completion report at the end of the project period.
Benefits and Risks
56.     The proposed project presents a number of significant benefits.  It
would continue Bank support to BRD, the most important institution in Rwanda
providing term financing for productive investments. It would assist Government
in pursuing its industrial development policy which emphasizes: (i)
diversification of the economy through investments (mostly involving private
sector promotors) in industries which are labor-intensive, such as textiles,
small-scale food processing and livestock development; (ii) jobs creation,



- 21 -
particularly through the SSE subprojects which are normally labor-intensive;
(iii) resource mobilization for productive investments (based on experience with
BRD I and II, two-thirds of funds would be generated by subproject sponsors and
other sources); (iv) establishment of a nationwide SSE development program and
launching through BRD an important effort in support of SSE projects; and (v)
clarification of the role of interest rates in Government's development
strategy.
57.     There is no major risk associated with this project.  For a small
development bank, BRD has a substantial pipeline of projects, which should be
sufficient to support the forecast level of operations.  The rates of commitment
and disbursement of the line of credit, which depend on the implementation of
subprojects, are expected to proceed as anticipated.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Rwanda
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between BRD and the Association
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(i) signature of the subsidiary Loan Agreement by the Borrower and BRD (para.
45); and (ii) amendment of BRD's Policy Statement to modify the interest rate
structure and to require calculation of an ERR for all subloans above the free
limit (paras. 36 and 49).
59.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
March 17, 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 22 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWhANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWhANDA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL               26.3                                        MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL        14.5                   1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PIR CAPITA (US$)                         70.0        100.0       239.0                  250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             14.5         15.9       28.3                   66.5                     610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        2858.0        3695.0    5530,0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)         2.4          3.2        45                    17.8                      28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                               10.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                 38.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                          2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             108.5        146.3      210.0                   27.7                      54.7
PER SQ. E-M. AGRICULTURAL LAND          189.3        240.7     393.0                    86.7                     129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                44.3         45.7       46.7                   44.8                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                                53.0         51.6       50.6                   52.3                      51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          2.7          2.7        2.7                    2.9                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.6          2.6        3.6                    2.7                       2.8
URBAN                                     5.4          5.4        6.3                    6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            51.2           . .      53.3                   47.3                      47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            27.2         22.3       20.1                    19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                      ..            ..       4.1                     3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)                81.0         102.0      105.0                   88.7                      90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         83.3          95.6       94.2/c                 90.2                      93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 50.7         61.0       57.0lc                 53.1                      54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             25.6          34.0       29.17W                 18.4                      17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            32.0         30.5       29.0                   26.7                      23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)           37.2         42.1       45.2                   45.6                      51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 147.0        142.0      137.0                  129.9                     118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..       37.0/d                 23.9
URBAN                                      ..           ..       41.0/d                 54.9
RURAL                                      ..           ..       37.0/ij                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      .          53.0       57.0/e                 25.8
URBAN                                      ..         83.0       87.077                 63.1
RURAL                                      ..         52.0       56.O/e                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              143285.7/f   59596.8   38791.7/c                 32097.3                   14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          11617.87    8818.6   10460.77T                   3264.6                    2213.2
PUPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                      ..        790.4      650.0/c               1225.0                    1036.4
URBAN                                      ..         45.9       45.27W                249.5                    430.8
RURAL                                      ..       3097.0    1599.77                 1712.1                    3678.6
ADMlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..         21.2       21.3/g
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                      ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                      ..           ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..        4.5/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
URBhN                                      ..           ..
RURAL                                      ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
UR BA N..
RURAL
C-



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                        Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  49.0         73.0      70.0                   63.2                    83.3
MALE                  68.0         83.0       74.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                30.0         64.0       67.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          2.0       2.0                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   2.0          3.0        3.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0          1.0        1.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  39.9           12.2       16.7                   7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.8         59.7      53.2                   47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           14.2         13.3      15.3                   26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         16.4/f       23.0/h    49.5                   34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          0.9       1.5/e                  3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          8.1      30.1                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       0.04/c                 2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       14.6/le                1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1617.8       2007.1    2679.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    49.1         48.6      48.4                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.0         93.0      91.0                   78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.0          2.0       2.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 56.6         54.3       51.8                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  58.9         56.9       54.7                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                54.4         51.9       49.1                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        1.0                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     148.0/c                134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.07E                 82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      43.0/c                 60.4                   203.6
ESTLMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      30.0/c                 39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      90.0/c                 69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bet'-,-  1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and  1'S2.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1975;  /f 1962;  /g 1974;  /h 1973.
May, 1982



- 24 -                                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFLNIITIOWS L.1 SOCUIA INDICATORS
Nates;  Although the date  -n  drawn froourc..generlly judged the meet otholitain- and reliable. it should also be noted that thny -Yout be inte-
national ly no.epneble be.aus  of the lank of standardised deinition   and concepts used by different coun.tries in collecting the data.  The dte ar,noe
Ibse   seu  inderib  "       dreo   oniua          wdnt   ned,ad oao  -eis  etain eaJor diffe cocos. between ...untn ee.
Tah   feeo   gnuaar             he same coutrY group If the subject coutry and  2) .a..u.tny group with enenhat high. en   arag  i....nI uhon the coun.try gn-u
of'ohs sbl:te .. noutr  -lenop  fu       High Inco-      011 topor tens  go  shore "Middle. nco-  N-rnh Africa an  Middle. last" Is chon h...boca..  of   ene
scol-culturol  ftfiitiesl.  In the reference group data the.veag           pr pultion  eightsd arithmei-         sn    anso ,indicator co.d ohunt only abet
3-jui~tyIat the countrie  inagoc-p h.e d:t. far that indicatort.  Since Ohe  -coerag  at ocuottnie  -no   b   nisrr   wed  tthnaclbtdly   f  oc
and Ia  c      tr.cuinmtb  ent-Ise  iw. reltIng ucnges of on  indica  toro  .othr.th eTa..  -...agae un  only useful uicn                             nn   navieo
cnn Indlicatoran ari   ae .g.ba   cny and rofer.... groupe.
ASAREA   con   aA.                                                                                Poculanic  conf_tcendiial td -tta,uban,t and r.ral -  cpulttiac (otal,I
Tonal - Tt ltufac    rtn.         nun   ad    aad inad  uer   199daa                              urban, and rural) divided by thei   opo I     inn  ..nhnrof huapital bedo
Aglie.1-turl - intinarn of agurl ura1t     urea cad t-aP-rarly or peraecl                         aaIoi  in pubice and printgoru  av   poio    opita  and no-.
far oropa. poauro,cabo  and kitchen gardoa ant0 la ie fallca  1979 daa.                        bbilirctionnnno.IInital arc noabInboevo  Pouvonly atotfrd
by no Ioa ...    pyain tctoahTIamvoycligpliinOpallycu-c_
ISP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP pro ..pi,a  -ei-ao   tcrenmro   ricra, ra-                               dil,  non  ar'e. co   icoidd.  ORu  b'ocpiculu. hcannt, include braith
culatd by na" c.ooncrico merhod ac Wonld no   na  (1979480 basc) .190.                            anmdica o......       no  prnman-tl  -Offod by a physkican(o by 
1970, and 1980 data.                                                                             mdical.. aci-t-n    n          ia,edoifo, non-)  hich cffrr in-p. 'ilnlu, ne
dacton and provide   licioed r.go of ordinal fun 11i  o-  For otti-
tNERGY COOSIfMfTION PERI CPITA - donaI -non..mption of c--eriol on-gy (Icni                         lctal punpoune urban .b.v..ta    inlodI ano  prinnipul/grcclhuo-           olo
anod lignite, p            -rlo.ntura  ga- cod hydro-. ncerand g-ctbeh        eb-                 and rural b tpioou,  lc l o  rura  hunyir1o aod medi-calcd eatrity
trInIy)  in  gl-co    of coal ooi-al-c  Pen capita; 1960, 17.ad197 Inoeo.lycialined hc-pitala one uicluddonyudon tota.
data.                                                                                          Adninai.n. Per HaPita1 Sod -  ctal nub-n of udmin-iut to or di.Ihoogno
from hoepitale dividod by the nuder, of bodn.
POPLUTTION AND0 VITAL STATtISTICS
Tota  Popolatico. Mid-youe (hnono)-An of July 1; 1960. 1970,. ad 1980                        HOUSING
dunn.                                                                                        AcgoSian of H.corhold (pe..ecoc PI, hbcunohod1)- toal                ,,ho. .an  tona-
ambn. PopntIrt   9A 90   ndIo   aa                                                               b hoc,:hoId  for hotctiotlclqponpturn.
octllp, puic ~einnb   g I n  urn. cod choi ferta lity  and bilitil icy d                       don ltg.eprloy. niig    onudc-pnanttcunnd
PPloo,adtnl   i   npcacttbtcr    t775pa.Topc-lnvnicldn  oono  tintotIicloy  In lvin   qoatoo  no p--tge
meroto   ot-lptr n0on haCno rh1i- e "  ..no     ....nunin  dm10d  in 190t. ofoel, uba.  and- cora  dorI logo crpnd lnr-I-y.                          C     "ia
Orroliny an,onodn by    inoelo and-    d t  an  fail  plandIling potarmacce.:p-il,                                                      1d~n..  oa-
cachcoutry  n tin  tnigod  onity  ohen  n.Pine    ofnlnnth_   of- nana-t                ..OCATOO
anI  otiiyto ioOthpo) 001c   p                   ...vo .  y      , ,l,I-Adluc,ted   nollment, fluthoc1~lba   ad 
-naicarI. popolatyc  -.Ov  noutIonc.       opito thhl-l   nr  ui.  ong- ot -10c               olor -   choo -t.  torch o-1   ad-Ifemal--ti-o toa,  an  o  f
f-n  irthrui .-Iu equa ino-h  dratl  rae,dP      f and aluc    i. thagoctar-n-                  nrlmn   falun   noaptaylnla   rtncn    frnnov
cams constan. Thin .iuuchrd oneofp utter tnctlit  itofdoo -io                i n               pDCAIONcayobc-g          cuon;coul               ldnoido   gdfi
and f-tlicyrmeon lve  of.  unt  oro. rp-ndut-c   ranAhdjahgnraityoro bu  cd- oot- Rtiodfs                                       nt  ngh   f  rn           dunin    c
ct tnnoc. coylar-itonf macIp    ma onat onny               . i ycuaonngithouu                 Pounty uhaci-thoctalenaI o.dufailctc -nloo-   na   ono  10poon
thuolthodo  obo hin l  of the  drojohtrd, . ocun tlon ofe ibo yulaoin                           obo  fsmepui  anng ob   no ab -o  t                P ofiil nobc  ago.  P
in tbryour 20g.in dnh  nathi  c  donlny ofl  tectlityaoooclate n-ie- tnondary echanl-.g tonal                          = ;.ca antona.lo  - fanyotde  nohaldnr;unncda6r1
mheno    ,-t          I  fnt  e,-pdl. Irvol.h.  ...hobtiooroqirnea   lodi toot you   ci'h  opfno  primary "'inortin
Ornnnar Inaryroruutio  In nounny.    Tha ynar n.on 01rlay po        puhuociin       o            tcldfee gactah  vo-u-inIda.. oti 00cho Ic-u        ..i . IntuIloc  for polt
niath adol haD   anchd. -h.coaI- ly nO. ii on -12  it  ofag;  uoupvnccnuu arte go C~.                                                                               -ndruly
P _caoic I-nult                                                                                   rcld .. t    'i                  "       ,o     p,,
Pm  so. km    Mid-yorpulic  potoqr  kiloano-  (1000 hro-u...o)                                V_ ntinnalenrJollent (oroc f  ..o2odacl..Ooninlino,tltuo...
tonat una  1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                         iInoldo technioul, indoutnial. or  00c   rgru   Ochnrun  nord
Pro t. km.  "g 'icotr.. land - Onnyp-d coahoor fcr ugoilclnuol1 land                           onolp no no dopo tmeot  of noccodany i-uton ino..
l;10. 1972 and 0079 dat.                                                              PuI-ece  ct         t-phay. and nn-ndac--             a  nurrrooldI
PPntaittnAgo dlrutu..n (prlo-nn)   ChOildooc (0-14 yect). c-king-uct (is-                        pruar  and nooay lonolo dinudnd by nhoru.  c :-h...oc  inthI
64  or)  an     lrord (h5 y.a.. an d corn  au poc-ntagni of old-pour corn-                      c-tnponding lomb.1
ain;1960, 1970 , and 198  data.                                                          Mo~lt 1i rn-o  nato f(PInoo) - Litt-rcrdulcn  (abict  rod  n  aion)
,Popaltio_ Gooth latc  (porctti - total -Annual groovh raes-   oc tal lad-                       an a pornon-ag   of total canto pnpo1ia-uonad 15  eoc   nd coot.
prar  cnlto   for 0911-i,6 ,190-7, an  19170-Ic.
PopolaticoGco  anfonc       ra   Anna 100000I laten of urban Popo-                           CONSUMOPTION
laticot for 1950-60. 1960-70. atd 1970-80.                                                   Paoconfr  (con .boad population) - P.un-g-o tanCn. lt  u
lid "nnh lair (poo tocu...nd) - Annual lire bLlohn PI, th.ounod of old-pont                    oauoocn          nnta   ih   01c;ccbr   coans   rre   n
popolatco   960"     91   n   9190data.-                                                       e1i buy  -hicII-.
Condn Drah lao (pro thounand) - Annuald-aho pro th--nad  of old-pear                            adnRrion(nth....   popo lat)-al  typon of ...oociodcrf adi
Population; 1960, 1970, and 1980 d-on.                                                          b..dt..d..nttcgcnoralpobhic  c  tb adofppllin    cloe   n
Crongornuci          R ate-doAic_  oInbor of daughtero a caa  nilb- hoar i0lnnocnirc   ncut drand in ya                                             hm. rngis-tutinn of rodin
hen  0- norm l rprdun  pcl o d it nhr mnpocn.... p000-0  age---o pifin  for-                    ittuo-  in of-ot; data I-te- c0t yrr- nay not bn c-p-cblo  tinna
tilltyotcs;uunllp  f ie-al __oagn  n ding In 1960, 1970. and 1990.                        00.0..nlie. abnlinhrd linonniog.
Family Ilanntnc- Ac..nptnn, Annua  (thb.uacnde  - uncool  numbro of -a-nIptonu                 00  noLor-  (pot tho..n.nd populiatio     - TV  ocvr  fcc b-nd-an  on
of hitt-ncnrrl drolon oce   _npinno n  nat-ionaI  falli plannIng program.                 ....a  pu,blic Per thcu.anod ppopluti.n;  -noid.i unliconond f0rrcinrrc
Poil Plannn-i ars(poront of ca-ind noe) - Pncrnatgr of marind                                   10 outinand in pyac  at- reginontInc of TO nesI an In_ffc.
anmeccf obld-hbaing ago (15-44 pear)  h.c -n  bicoh-o-trl1  d-ol-n ton                      -,oPIP,, CI'nlalona icon thb.u..d 2ncu1anion  - Soon the  --rgo tInl-
all macrind cosmo in n-m  age gcccp.                                                            -ulatino of "1duilgnea  i--'oo  -rcpaprn", dnfinrd anaproindic'l
Puhlicatito   docc-d prucalily n trtIllcdlng gon-ra  noon   it in ....stdood
FOgD ANl NUTRITION                                                                                  tc o   "dil"if0  ap       er t lna-  fontiome  a cool
loden of pond   -do-ticn Pot CaPita   11969-P10011  - Indo  of.parcapita annual                Cinosa Aaonl.. uronodlanrpnr: Capita P poc oo-OBnnd cc the number of
Praduotion of all food _omeoitin19Producion  oct udno. Iad and toed and                        ti   .iod during  hbn pant, Inolodiof cdoiani-o  to drlc-ilonino-a
Is.o c....dar p.u. basin  IC-diane cove  primary goode. (e.g             91I. sIgronoan   mbrnno.
inct-d ot oncan) nahich ac  e IbAndncot-inntrnn               (e.g. _cffor and
te  urn enclodod).  Aggrogate plod_nin.of c . oah ocuny in buo..d on                       L.AOR ORCfoo
n-Ic..al a-rgn p-od-r  prior - ightc; 1961-65, 1970. and 1980 dat.                           Tnota  LaborOnc F .-(thonn~ands) --oroc           cion Ponscon, including
Per capita nopply o   alon  (onnoo  o iemnn  -zCup-tod iron                                      anteed fIno  and cormplcyod but ro-Indoc0 h'oonv_ u  nudntn_ntI
rcrrgy nqclnaln- of coo f-dlnp- in   nilboIcononnoy pot  "apita                                 -toniog popul.oino of all ag.a.  DaO loot, lon  In  -ai... o-trirnco
cnn dap.  Aailubln npyllon ncpoio  dnenlo podcit    no            noot  -cana-blr; 1960, 1970 enod 1980 lain.                          t  ..goo
np.lrdyc. andiobangul_ ocoi_       S licpdL inolrcoud- anleapp food  o1do                      Peae(oot)-PmoIao   ooca   rco oo   oa   ao    oe
iuat tn   nd in food Prnnnn,adlnonin din ihtno.  Souirn-                                    Agnicalt,cro (proc...ti - Labo  Inoo iv farIng,9forrotry, bhottn,         n
men-n-hnr-aimatrd  by_PAl bano.d     phyoinlcgicol  -rdn. too nncal anti-                        tiehiog at pont-nngo n  t-nul Ilab., f             IDr160  1920 ccd 1980 d.tc.
ntr  ad heath c- isdring  Iicun-nu  toopeot-ct, bndy ooilht_  og                              lod-ntry (pontoo) - L.ha Itoor in oItni1,I on          utt-ion, m-an-acuiog
anod cr0 dinroiburion of poplto  an-inIg             -0toco  for  ant  at                        cod   rtiip   -uorad gao an P-onoi go of otal labor f-ror
Ocsho,   roi    196-6. 1219         977 dau           P                                       1960  5970 a.d18  data.
Pen capitad oa;pply of rrtni  founptIdy             rti otc   fptcpt                           P-rtnipatln lato (po-oot9-)  ona1. oaIn. und fo-lo e            ar        Iptnoo
not supply of focd ,ptda.St s'Pply of fond Is doflond cn ahn.-   ho                             ciiyrtna    o oda   oa,v .cd trmaln  lbhnt Iorta
quirom-c-  to  all  onuI . ti-n   I-obllobod by liA pro-ido  c  odioi_                        pr....tag,,of c  ital,' ca   and foal pI      oon Inotall1 a. 801 resctol  y;
alonnesc  60 glues of ltota  Poc-in pc  day aod 20 gSta of  aioldand                     1960,_1920. and 1980 data.  Throune         oo   n  L'   arl  pIc   uo
Pulcpcot   foib0   rm   thul  ho anI"a  P.ni. ..                     nI ouo-                   roloIog ago-no   --t-uru     of ocPouainadlngtime   -nd . A
ando am  boo  cha tobnn  of 75 gStc  of iotal prtonin and 23 gtraaofc                          fecnti.     r  at  ftcm  natlo-a  ocu--o
anmlP"""l  a             Invog   for thn  -aca,tproposd by PAD it the Thind              cNnomun Dardc  latn             ` lati  of popolutlo  undot 15 cod 65 uIdInI
Onyld fudluonep.-; ,1961-65.  91od197dn.n  tho ocptal lbor   c.-
Pro canto nrntnin -aly tine anima  and pulun-Prutoin  uupplp of fond dn-
tired from anmal  and polun  in gam_ pot dat;1961 -60., 19 70 atd 1972' darn.              08C0M01 DISTcRIBUTION
Child (acre 1-Os) DeathSol  fort        ...nd) - Actua  dranb.  par thb....nd Jn               Pocag   tPivate Icnme fbtbt in outl and bind) - Rotrinrd by lioheut
ago o,,u 1-4a y01,  no. t bihldrr  i t hin age glnup, onf andanolopingoc...-                I peren.iohant 20 pootrot. p-errs  20 pret  end Ponrn  40pnrowt
tries data doriod (roe lifo tablno; 1960, 1920  and 1980 data.                                 of h-ohorlds.
bFALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARIET CROUPS
lite Onn..tanoy at Bltb  (yruro) - Avonage ..ahrn of pram. of life Ircaining                  OTho tflllng nottcat   arc  -ry appnoninatn la-att    of p-nrty lw-rl,
no birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980data,                                                             and e       baidheiconrprond with oo-id-oblccn-nio..
Intuon Mcotlity late (net thcoondl - Annual deaths of lof.t.at  and.onen Ian                   lotlcatd Absyicto Pcrrny tIo.m  leve  fOOl pot oupital - arbon cod ral- -
of agoPanfhouodliehrta    96,17  ua  1920J.  dat.-                                             Ahonlto pcnty Income Irnol Is rhat lonm  lo-n  hb.o.  hich a minImal
Anoint tn  aoaoo(oon o:l         f ppllco.            ca, rban. and rotal - Su-                  tort al   drquatr dint plan Iost.ntia1 oct-fond rrqoirnment  ic  n
hon of people (otal1, urban  andttl)"Oh .......abw  rococo to  -fe                             ftfcdablo.
aaonspply fiocldottoctdnrfc   ao Ito unreatod ho t soo-tu-l-ed                           Eoti Tmaogrlnntvo Povert  Incomevlenn  (US$ per onpita) - urban and rcrl.-
-co auh.as that frIle  pontroted blhoilo..  eprlngo, and eanitony  rOon) on                 coal  nlatlne pon-ry icnme lnowL is on-nhird of -on-gn pro napit
P...oorge   o  theirtreoPeotinc pcpuloricno.  to 00 urban  ruptulin                            P   ..r-ca  Inocs ot the ruonroy.  Urban lo-olIs  wndf          heIn ua
f.c.ntai  or  tanadpo   located nortmart ohoc 2G1 metore  tZom     h.ume maY ho                l-1 with~ adjuo-eo  fo  higho-  nI-  of li~icg in orb an  tees
considere  an boing olhiblo toanblr ...... It that b.u...  On rota  an-a -tlard Population Solca Aboclutn Povo-y  Inca  le-1 (ponnono  -uba
reaoblo atone ...Id iply thr.b,I-oeteo  meebo   o  .f the ha...ehold                         and rtl- - Petero  ot popcllaicn  (urban and nata)  h.o are "chbnlton
doea -ht  to  prd a ditprnporttanto Pan  of. the day  in frtohiog tho                       so"
ene 'o aP"    Itca.  orhon, and rual  aerood hrb     orn  diapot...aI
pecenar  at thir    pecote psa Eoiac.ttret  dipo.aI caY ictlondn
ohe ncllnt ia   aMdcpcl. sorb no vitm t   -rn tt, of h-  etrt
adar-nerby e--b-haa   cyste    an rho usa at pit pritina esd slab-
PoePt1a  no P-bPeyolin - Pcpalantnn divided by ot.er of prnticior physi-                                                              E..oaoin and Social Dota e    an
cOcoa qoallried fr-  a medical s ol at unoiverity leve.                                                                        EI ...mit An,alyela med ProjectSane Soemet-
Polt.o  eart!Loage Person - P.praltioo dinidedby eoshr  of prootisiag                                                                          :tY 1982
la, ad female grcdennme mLetmet nenmes pnctiool  _ere  aod
_eee   elia ri_a,



- 25-                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA-RWAU')A
AREA                                   POPULATION                      DENSITY (1982)
26.3 thousand sq. km.                  5.5 million (mid-1982)          210 per square km.
Rc-te of Growth:                393 per square km. of
3.6% (from 1978 to 1982)          arable land
POPULATION CHAPACTERISTICS (1978)                 HEALTH (1977)
Crude Birth Fatc (per 1,G00)           54.0       Population per physician   38,792
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)           21.0       ropulation per hospital bed   650
INCOM, DISTRIBUTICN                               ENT.RGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
% of national income, highest quintile ..         (Kilograms of coal equivalent) 28.3
lowest quintilee
ACCESS TO SAFE WA.TER_(1976)                      ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Z of ponulation-total                  35.0       % of populat-ion - total
- rural
NUTRITION (1977)                                  EDUCATION (1980)
Calorie intake as 70 of requirements 94.2         Adult literacy rate %              23.0
Per capita protein intake              57.0       Primary school enrollment %    60.0
(grams/day)
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 (1): US $239
GROSS DCI{ESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981 (2)                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTF
-(, constant 1976 prices) (3)
US $ Mln.      %                      1977-81
CDP at Tarket Prices          1,257.8        100.0                     5.8
Gross Domestic Investment       282.4         22.5                     8.0
Gross National Saving           109.8          8.7
Current Account Balance        -172.6        -13.7
Export of Goods, NFS            150.9         12.0                   -3.9
Import of Goods, NFS            332.0         26.4                    5.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RwF Mln.)       % of GDP
1981 (2)    1981 (2)    1972
Current Receipts                     14827          12.7           8.3
Current Expenditure                  14,040         12.0          10.7
Current Surplus                         787          0.7         -2.4
Capital Expenditures                  2,562          2.2           1.2
Overall surplus (4)                  -2,241         -1.9          -3.0
(1)  The Per Capita GNP estimate calculated by the same conversion technique as the World
Bank Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
(2)  Provisional.
(3)  Trend rates based on least squares estimates.
(4)  The overall surplus is not equal to the difference between current savings and
development expenditures because the consolidated surplus or deficit of the
Treasury special accounts is not shown in this table.
not available.
not applicable.



-26-                                ANNEX I
COUNTRY DtTA - RWAN0A                          Page 5 of 5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRtCES                      1977      1978      1979      1980       1981
(Million RwF outstaniding end period)
Mioney Supply (1)                            10,175   11,204   14,185   15,331   16,331
Bank Credit to Government (net)                 363        23   -1,350   -2,929   -1,939
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 4,389    5,134    4,563    6,515    8,171
(Percentage or Inlex Numbers)
Monev as % of GDP                            14.0      13.8      14.6      14.4      14.2
Consumrnr Price Index (Jan-Mar 1976=i00) 116.7    131.3    152.1          163.2     173.8
Annuial percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                         14.5      12.5      15.8       7.3       6.5
Bank credit to Government  (net)            -77.4    -93.7  -5970.0   -117.0         33.8
Bank credit to Private Sector                60.1      17.0    -11.1       42.8      25.4
BALANCE CF PAYMENTS                                       YERCIkNDMSE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
1978   1979   1980   1981(2)                US$Mln.       Z
(US$ Millions)
Exports of Goods, NFS       126    227    166    161   Coffee             79.5       54.8
Imports of Goods, NTS    -261   -309   -323   -332   Tea                  10.6        8.0
Resource Gap (deficit--) -136    -82   -157   -181   Cassiterite   17.6              13.1
Wolfram          5.5        4.1
Factor Services (net)        -5      -2       5      12   Pyrethrum        1.3        0.9
lKet transfcrs               -        5      -1     -3   Cinchona          11.9       1.5
,lalance on Cur. Account  -141    .79   -155   -172   Other               23.9       17.6
Total       140.3      100.0
Official Grants              95    128    106    106
Direct Private For.Invest. 10        13      17     19
Net MLT Lr,ens               19      40      33     25   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEM3ER 31, 1981
Oc.er M & LT (net)            1    -22       -2      2                                      US$Mln.
Net Short-Term Capital       21    -10       22     20   Public Debt, incl.guaranteed    172.1
Capital Flows, NEI           -6       1     -2      -9   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Errors & Omissions            5      -1     -6       1   Total outstanding & disbursed
Increase in Reserves (-)   -4    -70    -13         -1
Gross Reserves (end year) 100.0  177.6  208.8  199.2   NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1981 (4)
Petroleom imports (3)        17.0   23.0   30.0   3Z.0                                          Z
Petroleum Exports (3)         .       .       .        .    Public Debt incl. guaranteed   1.8
Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstandina & disbursed
RATE OF EXCAINGE
Annual             End             IDA LENDING,(July 31,1982)(USMln.)
Averages          Period                                             IDA.
1974-80        Sept. 1982          Outstanding & Disbursed        74.96
US$  1.00 = RuF           92.84           92.84             Undisbursed                     40.08
RwF  1.00 - US$            0.011            0.011           Outstanding inol.
Undisbursed                   115.04
1) Includes Money and Qjasi money
2) Provisional.
3) Crude and derivatives.
4) Debt Service net of interest earned on foreI.gn exchange reserves as a
percentage of Exports of Soods and Non-Factor Services.
,. not available
. not applicable
-- less than US $ 0.5 million



-27 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                      IDA   Undisbursed
(Five credits have been fully disbursed)                          45.90
(    567-RW          1975        Rwanda      Education                 6.38        2.06
655-RW          1977                    DFC I                     4.00        0.13
656-RW          1977                    Agriculture Cinchona    1.80          0.08
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance         15.00        3.04
896-RV          1979                    DFC II                    5.20        4.13
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        5.24
1039-RW         1980                     Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        16.60
1057-RW         1981                     Telecommunications        7.50        6.97
1126-RW         1981                     Coffee/Foodcrops         12.65       13.42
1217-RW 1/      1982                     Technical Assistance    4.61          4.61
1250-RW 1/      1982                     Fifth Highway            24.99      24.99
1263-RW 1/      1982                     Second Education          9.65        9.65
1283-RW 1/       1982                    Phase II Bugesera/        -
Gisaka/Migongo          15.55       15.55
Total                                            182.98 1/  106.47
Total Held             182.33
1/   Not yet effective.
Note: a) Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
b) US dollars amounts equivalent for IDA VI credits are calculated at the
rate as of September 30, 1982.



- 28 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1982)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of September 30, 1982)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
-   Date of Effectiveness:  December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building Lor the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well'as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurewent or paper).
Hlost of the 250 workshops are nearly completed.  The lack of acceptable reccrd
keeping, howgever, has impeded the processing of disbursement requests. There-
fore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops, organized
by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken successfully in November
1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursements have resumed. The printshop is
now operational and construction of the office building for the SFCS comDleted.
The original Closing Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to December 31, 1982 by
which time the project is expected to be completed.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
still a demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices
for cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR
Cthe implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price 'or cinchona bark
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report anv problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was
decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Kirambo area, and
construction has-since started and the factory is scheduled to be open in
early 1983. This should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to
compete with cinchona derivates on the world market. The original Closing
Date (June 30, 1982) was extended to March 31, 1983 by which time the project
is expected to be completed.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; USS15.0 Million Credit
of April 21, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recom-mendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credi.t of US$5.0 million (wlhich
is now about 90 percent committed) to finance BRD-s foreign exchange require-
ments and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Government has just finished reviewing the audit
study and its comments are currently under consideration by the Association.
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region. It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration. Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has improved, but destocking
activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of clear
policies and enforcement mechanisms.



- 30 -
AkNNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop
the forestry resources o'f Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry.
Technical assistance personnel and key local staff have been recruited and
start-up activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The proiect aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services.  In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
zations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Hinistry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
coffnanced w.ith FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 1126-RW         Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Proiect.
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. Technical assistance personnel and key
local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit 1217-RW         Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of April 5, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 29, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at increasing Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
improving interministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring,
and strengthening the Ministry of Planning (MINIPLAN). The project credit
agreement was signed April 5, 1982. The Project Economist to be assigned
to the Programming Directorate in the MINIPLAN has been recruited and has been
at his post since mid-June 1982.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1250-RW          Fifth Highway Project: US$25.9 MIllion Credit of
June 1, 3982; Date of Effectiveness:  December 8, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Date of effectiveness is scheduled for December 8, 1982. Bidding on
the project road is in progress.
Credit 1263-RW          Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of June 30,
1982; Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1982;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1987
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is established and the architect
for the PIU employed. A remaining condition of effectiveness is employment by
the PIU of the project accountant. Effectiveness is set for December 29, 1982.
Credit 1283-RW          Phase II Bugesera Gisaka Migongo (Phase II) Project;
US$16.3 Million Credit of September 28, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988
Project start-up activities including the family planning component,
areproceedino satisfactorily under the PPF advance.  Effectiveness is scheduled
for December 29, 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation Agency: BRD/IDA
(b) Appraisal Mission: April 1982
(c) Negotiations: February 7-18, 1983
(d) Target Effectiveness: July 1983
Section II: Special Conditions
A. The Borrower would:
(i) relend to BRD US$6.9 million of which US$2.5 million will bear interest
at the rate of 5 percent p.a. and US$4.4 million will bear interest at
the rate of 8 percent p.a. (para. 45);
(ii) prepare and submit to the Association by March 31, 1984 a study of SSE
policy which would serve as the basis for a nationwide SSE program
(para. 50), and
(iii) carry out the study by March 31, 1984 on interest rates in Rwanda
(para. 49).
B. BRD would:
(i)   calculate the economic rate of return for all non-service projects above
the free limit (para. 36); and
(ii) simplify its interest rate policy and charge positive interest rates in
relending to investment enterprises (para. 49).
C. Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(i) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 45); and
(ii) amendment of BRD's policy statement to modify the interest rate
structure and to calculate an ERR for all non-service projects above the
free-limit (paras. 49 and 36).



