Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19970-PAK
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 21020; 27900)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $ 112.5 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
SINDH PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
01/25/2000
EDUCATION SECTOR UNIT
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1989)
Currency Unit = PAK Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00= US$ 0.047
US$ I = Rs 21.15
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      Asian Development Bank                LM       Learning Modules
ADP      Annual Development Plan               MOE      Ministry of Education
AESPC   Additional Education Secretary for     MTU      Management Training Unit
Planning and Coordination
AIOU    Allama lqbal Open University           NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
AKU      Aga Khan University                   NIPA     National Institute of Public Administration
AY       Academic Year                         NORAD  Norwegian Agency for International
Development
BCEW    Bureau of Curriculum and Extension Wing ODA     Overseas Development Administration
DEO      District Education Officer            PFP      People Works Program
DEEW    Directorate of Education Engineering   PIHS     Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
Works
DFID     Department for International Development P&M Cell Planning and Monitoring Cell
DoE      Department of Education               PTA      Parents-Teachers Association
FY       Financial Year                        PTC      Primary Teacher Certificate
GCET    Government College for Elementary      RDPE    Regional Directors of Primary Education
Teachers
GIS      Geographic Information System         RS       Rupees
GNP      Gross National Product                SDEO    Sub-divisional Education Officer
GOP      Government of Pakistan                SEF      Sindh Education Foundation
GoSindh Govemment of Sindh                     SEMIS   Sindh Education Management Information
System
GPR      Gross Participation Rate              SNP      School Nutrition Program
HT       Head Teacher                          SOE      Statement of Expenses
ICB      International Competitive Bidding     SPE      Supervisor of Primary Education
ICR      Implementation Completion Report      STBB    Sindh Textbook Board
IDA      International Development Association    TA    Technical Assistance
LC       Learning Coordinator                  UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:    Ralph W. Harbison
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Syed Ameer Hussein Naqvi



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   11
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12
1 0. Additional Information                                                          13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
Annex 8.1. Enrollments and participation rates - Province of Sindh                   26
8.2. Enrollments at Primary Level in Province of Sindh                      27
8.3. Position of Repeaters, Drop-out and Transition Rates at Primary level  28
8.4. Transition Rates - Sindh                                               29
Annex 9. Total Teaching Staff (Qualifications, trained-untrained & male-female)      31
Annex 10. Education Expenditures by Category (Nominal Values) - Sindh                33
Annex 11. Education Expenditure by Category (Real Values)                            35
Annex 12. Non-salary Expenditure by selected category (Nominal Values)               37
Annex 13. Non-salary Expenditures by selected category (Real Values)                 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0 10346                                      Project Name: SINDH PRIMARY EDUCATION
Team Leader: S. Ameer Naqvi                               TL Unit: SASED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 24, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: SINDH PRIMARY EDUCATION                           L/C Number: 21020; 27900
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                             Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/05/88                                Effective: 08/20/90            11/16/90
Appraisal:  02/09/89                                  MTR: 11/01/94              11/01/94
Approval.  03/13/90                                Closing:  12/31/98           06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF PAKISTAN/DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, SINDH
Other Partners: NORAD, DFID, Aga Khan University, Sindh Education Foundation and other
local level NGOs
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Willi A. Wapenhans
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                               Hans-Eberhand Kopp
Sector Manager:      Ralph W. Harbison                          Roberto Cuca
Team Leader at ICR:   S. Ameer Naqvi                           Julian Schweitzer
ICR Primary Author:   S. Ameer Naqvi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
(a) Increase participation in rural and urban slum primary schools, with emphasis on girls; (b) enhance delivery of
primary education; and (c) improve student learning achievement.



3.11. These objectives were in line with the education policy and the Five Year Plans of the Government of
Pakistan, which shape provincial policy. The objectives were also in line with the Bank's Sector Lending
Strategy. The project was designed taking into account the lessons learned from other Bank-funded education
sector projects implemented in the country. When the program was appraised, the educational situation in
Pakistan and Sindh was in great need of improvement, especially at the primary level. For example, in
1986-87, Pakistan's literacy rate was about 26.2% and for Sindh 31.4%. Gross Participation Rate (GPR) of 5
to 9 year olds was about 52% in Sindh (30.8% for girls/14% for rural girls). Rapid population growth, dropout
and repetition of students contributed further to the problem of low GPRs. At the time of project preparation,
the focus of the federal and provincial governments' development program was to increase enrollment of rural
girls and improve teacher deployment. A large school construction effort was part of the development
activities in Sindh to ensure that no child was farther than 1.5 km from the nearest primary school.
3.12. Despite best efforts to develop an appropriate design, the project, in retrospect, had a number of flaws.
For example, the design did not include performance indicators except for enrollments and GPRs. Learning
achievement of students was linked only with the provision of educational materials and not with other
classroom impact variables. Insufficient scope was given to mechanisms for controlling potential governance
problems. Objectives were clear but a number of the components were too ambitious in terms of targets, scope
and government's management, technical and financial capacities. There was heavy emphasis on civil works
and, in the absence of effective accountability measures, the large resource flow contributed to governance
problems. The financial management system did not receive adequate attention in the project design. The
project SAR notes the risks of cutbacks in government expenditures and weak implementation capacity. To
offset some part of the envisaged financial deficits, co-financing by NORAD and parallel financing by
ODAIDFID was arranged. Although it helped the DoE to meet its financial requirements, it also added to the
complexity of the project. To enhance the capacity of the DoE and to provide a distinct focus on primary
education, reorganization at the secretariat, divisional and district level offices was planned.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged. As part of the Social Sector Projects Portfolio Restructuring exercise in 1997,
however, the scope of a number of activities was reduced and a number of new activities with modest targets were
added for more effective realization of the overall objectives, to make the education system more responsive to
Sindhi parents and to make them partners in school affairs. Revisions were minor and did not require reporting to
the Executive Directors. The new activities included: community schools; fellowship schools; scholarships to poor
working children; training of Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs); awareness creation; provision of teacher
support materials to all schools; establishment of School Development Centers; and development, printing and
distribution of teacher's guides.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components included: (a) construction of 16,800 classrooms and rehabilitation of 10,000
schools; (b) consultant services, fellowships and overseas training; (c) management training of 1,000 managers and
supervisors and in-service training of 68,000 teachers; (d) reorganization and decentralization of certain functions
to the division and district level; (e) provision of learning modules, achievement tests, 600 titles of Supplementary
Reading Materials (SRMs) and cupboards for SRMs; (f) incremental salaries; and (g) textbook paper and book
cover materials. The NORAD funded components included: (i) School Nutrition Program; (ii) Rural Girls
Scholarships; and (iii) Distribution of free textbooks to rural girls. ODA/DFID provided around 95% of the
technical assistance.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Rating   Component                                       Category               Cost (Million US$)
S    Construction of about 16,000 classrooms and     Physical                    93,200,000.00
rehabilitation of about 2,500 schools
S    Consultants services, fellowships, and overseas training Institutional Building  2,900,000.00
S    Management training for around 1,000 Managers and   Institutional Building   1,000,000.00
Supervisors and in-service teacher training of 26,832
teachers
S    Reorganize and decentralize certain fumctions to  Policy                     2,400,000.00
division and district level
S    Provision of Teachers' Guides, achievement tests and   Institutional Building  2,700,000.00
supplementary reading materials
S    Equipment for implementing agencies and furniture for Physical               8,200,000.00
4,000 classrooms
NA    Unallocated                                     Other                          800,000.00
S    Incremental Salaries                            Project Management             900,000.00
HS   NGOs, Private Sector and community participation  Institutional Building      2,400,000.00
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality of the project design is rated satisfactory at entry both in the ICR and by the QAG in view of consistency of
the objectives with the CAS and the government priorities as discussed in section 3.1 above.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. The tangible project objectives were largely achieved
(including marked increase in girls' participation rates) despite the complexity of the project and extremely difficult
conditions in Sindh over the last decade.
4.11. Increase Participation: Total increase in the enrollment of boys and girls was 52% between 1986-87 and
1998-99. The enrollment of girls almost doubled during the same period. Increase in rural girls' enrollment was
even more marked, rising to more than three times the original level. The overall Gross Participation Rate (GPR)
increased from 52% (72% for boys and 30.8% for girls) in 1986-87 to 63.3% (75% for boys and 50.41% for girls)
in 1998-99. The increase in rural girls' GPR is around 25% (or above 2% p.a.) thereby exceeding the target of an
18% increase originally set for the project. A more modest increase in boys' GPR occurred. The boys' GPR of
75% in 1998-99 was higher than the projected 73% but increase has been only 3% during the project period. The
repetition rate (RR), overall, decreased from 8.3% to 4.7% during the last four years (boys' RR decreased from
9% to 5.1% and girls from 6.7% to 4%). Transition rates from grade I to grade V increased from 44% (43% boys
and 47% girls) in 1986-87 to 53% (52% for boys and 54% for girls) in 1998-99. The transition rate for children
enrolled in grade I reaching grade VI in 1986-87 was 24% (25% for boys and 22% girls) which increased to 50%
(48% for boys and 53% for girls) in 1998-99. Drop-out rates have not improved much except between grade I and
2.
4.12. Improve delivery of primary education: To provide a distinct focus for primary education at the divisional
and district level, the administrative restructuring proceeded further than planned wherein separate directorates of
Primary Education and District Education Offices were created. Around 1,000 senior administrators, managers
and supervisors were trained. Number of female teachers increased by 46% and number of untrained teachers
- 3 -



declined from 49% to 7%. Awareness and participation by parents and local communities in the delivery of
primary education increased through establishment of around 27,000 PTAs. The PTAs were authorized to procure
educational materials, school repairs and furniture. Two hundred and twenty community and NGO managed
schools were established. Data gathering, planning and monitoring fumctions of the DoE improved through
strengthening the Sindh Education Management Information System (SEMIS), establishment of a Geographic
Information System (GIS), through school mapping and training the senior educational administrators in the use of
these tools in planning and decision making. The SEMIS data helped in recognizing and reducing the uneven
distribution of teachers and closed schools. The DoE was able to make 28% of closed schools functional and
re-deployed 14% teachers during 1996-98. Effective planning and management practices introduced under the
project still need to be strengthened and institutionalized. Financial Management of the project has been weak.
Book keeping and financial monitoring of the implementing agencies were not given the attention they required.
Weaknesses in the internal control systems gave rise to a large number of audit observations. Professional
competency of the teachers was enhanced through in-service teacher training, especially in the two pilot districts.
Consolidation of gains in first two districts and extension to six districts has been a successful strategy. The
teachers' support materials were supplied to all primary schools, therefore the materials and trainers are available
for program expansion not only in six districts but also in other districts.
4.13. Increase student learning and achievement: Overall, the project made important initial gains in providing
quality inputs specifically aimed at increasing student learning. The strategy employed to accomplish this included
improving the quality, durability, distribution and availability of teaching-learning materials, textbooks and
supplementary reading materials (SRMs), lowering unit production costs of materials and distribution of free
textbooks to rural girls. No provision was made in the project for measuring directly the gains in student learning
resulting from project inputs. However, a continuous assessment system was introduced during 1996-97 school
year. Majority of the schools are maintaining records of continuous assessment of students and are reporting the
progress to the parents. Student assessment records, improved supply of quality teaching-learning materials,
reduction in repetition rates, increase in transition rate and enrollment in public sector schools suggest that there
has been improvement in the quality of the primary education offered in schools.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.     Increase access to primary education, especially for girls in urban slums and rural areas
4.21. Civil Works and other physical facilities: Around 95% targets of civil works were achieved. Improved
sanitation, water supply facilities and boundary walls were provided to primary schools, especially girls schools.
Capacity of the Directorate of Education Engineering Works (DEEW) was enhanced through additional staffing
and facilities. A Management Information System was set up for DEEW. Quality of construction and third party
oversight was enhanced by hiring private sector consultants. Credit funds were not used to purchase furniture
because of DoE's inability to comply with Bank guidelines and instead government funding was used.
4.22. Community Participation: Following restructuring of the project in 1997, a number of components
involving participation of the non-government sector and communities were added. In the short period of two
years, targets of establishing 100 Community Supported Schools (CSS) and 120 Fellowship Schools (FS),
mobilizing around 27,000 PTAs and training 22% of the PTAs were achieved. Around 13% of the 220 schools
established used buildings of previously-closed schools. A pilot effort to enroll 50 working children in schools was
successful. Through press, radio/TV, and conferences/workshops, awareness of both public and school staff about
the importance of education and role of communities has been increased. A good beginning has been made in
developing Government - NGO partnership but these linkages are far from being institutionalized.
4.23. Incentives to improve enrollment and retention: Strategies adopted to enhance enrollment and retention
included: (a) changing the school year to begin on August 1, and end on May 31; (b) experimenting with flexible
school hours; (c) abolishing school uniform requirement in rural areas; and (d) allowing automatic promotion
between grades 1-3 inclusive, . The change of the academic calendar and introduction of flexible school hours
were introduced in ail districts in 1990. However, in July 1994, the school year returned to the previous pattern on
- 4 -



the recommendations of the District Education Officers (DEOs) and the directors endorsed by the Program
Steering Committee. The field officials claimed that neither innovation produced measurable improvement in the
enrollment and retention pattern. Abolition of school uniforms was introduced throughout the province instead of
pilot testing their impact. Although evaluation of these innovations was planned, it did not take place and
consequently it was difficult to determine the potential of these interventions. In 1996-97, automatic promotion
was officially linked to continuous assessment which is discussed separately.
4.24. School Nutrition Program (SNP): Around 26,000 children and their younger siblings from 300 villages
benefited from SNP implemented in 148 schools (50% girls schools). The program was able to develop
partnerships among local NGOs, parents, teachers, communities, Department of Community Health Sciences
(DCHS) of the Aga Khan University (AKU) and the DoE. Female staff of government and NGOs, village women
(especially mothers) and adolescent girls were exposed to participatory approaches to development and inquiry.
Despite disruptions in the flow of funds and weaknesses in program management, SNP achieved positive results as
revealed by studies and surveys. One of the studies was conducted by the Planning and Monitoring (P&M) Cell of
the DoE in 1999 covering a sample of 26 schools. The results of the study show that: (a) the SNP was functioning
in 50% of the sample schools (funding had stopped near to the closing date of the project when survey was
conducted); (b) where the program was functioning, it was functioning regularly; and (c) 69% teachers and 73% of
the PTA chairpersons showed strong agreement that the enrollment increased in schools where SNP had been
implemented. Head-teachers agreed that SNP benefited children's health and encouraged attendance. The AKU
also conducted a comparative study of 137 SNP-Schools and 137 Non-SNP schools. The comparisons reveal that
SNP-Schools showed a statistically significant increase in enrollments and attendance relative to Non-SNP schools.
Normal weight for height and age was found for 82% and 77% children respectively in SNP-schools as compared
with 68% and 74% respectively in other schools. However, program managers could not keep a track of the
students' achievement and therefore it can only be assumed that the program had an indirect impact on student
achievement due to better nourishment, improved teacher attendance and better parental care. Frequent disruption
in the flow of funds to the local NGOs; minimal participation of DoE field officials (except in Omarkot district);
and delays in developing capacity of the NGOs were among the constraints that prevented full achievement of SNP
objectives.
4.25. Scholarships and Free Textbooks to Rural Girls: A total of 2321 (46.6% of the 5000 targeted) girls
benefited from the scholarship program. Reasons for low achievements, as indicated by studies conducted by
Institute of Educational Development, AKU and the P&M Cell of the DoE, included: (a) inability of the
head-teachers to form award committees; (b) resistance from DEOs; and (c) claims that there were no poor girls.
79% of girls who started receiving scholarships in grade 6 completed grade 8 and 83% of girls who started
receiving scholarships in grade 9 completed secondary. Distribution of free texts started in 1991 to rural girls in
Girls Primary Schools. Free textbooks were not supplied to girls in mixed rural schools for the fear that doing so
would be a disincentive for boys. Thus 66% of all the targeted girls received books. The delivery of books was on
time for four out of nine years of the project. Late distribution of texts, and improper distribution records were
among the problems faced by this component. The positive impact of free textbooks on rural girls is cited as one
reason for enrollment increases.
B.     Enhance delivery ofprimary education
4.26. Policy Reforms: (a) To reduce teacher absenteeism and increase girls participation, the DOE amended its
recruitment policy to localize hiring of Primary School Teachers (PSTs), relaxed the upper age limit and lowered
the initial qualifications for female candidates. This policy also helped in making closed-schools functional; (b)
opportunities for promotion of PSTs to Learning Coordinators (LCs) and Head-teachers were increased. 120 PSTs
were promoted to the position of LC. Similarly, there was 25% quota allocated to PSTs for promotion as
supervisor. 40% of the supervisors now have experience in primary/elementary school education which has
brought primary classroom experience into supervision; (c) a career structure was developed by the DoE, which
would allow PSTs to move up to Grade 18 posts and also to compete for all faculty positions in the GCETs.
However, approval has not been given by the Sindh Public Service Commission as yet; (d) 520 awards were made
to teachers and 8 for teacher trainers in recognition of their performance; and (e) the number of newly trained
-5 -



primary teachers for the open market was more than the target of 1600 teachers p.a.
4.27. In-service Teacher Training: A practice based program of in-service training for teachers was piloted in
two districts, evaluated and expanded to six-districts achieving only 19% of the SAR and 47% of the PC-I target
because of shortfall in the provision of funds by Government of Sindh. 40 BCEW, GCETs' staff, teachers and
supervisors benefited from overseas training in UK. Only 38 School Development Centers (SDCs) were
established against a target of 60. The establishment of SDCs has facilitated to organize cluster-based training for
teachers and supervisors. Professional competency of the teachers was enhanced, especially in the two pilot
districts. Provision of in-service training, development of Teachers' Support Materials in three volumes (Manuals
and handbooks for PSTs, HTs and supervisors in Sindhi and Urdu languages) in all primary education subjects and
their distribution to around 37,000 schools is a significant achievement of the project. A large majority of the
teachers were using audio-visual aids, interactive techniques, and materials other than textbooks. However, there
was no proper program of monitoring and follow-up of trained teachers. Without technically sound assessment
studies it is difficult to determine the impact of training and materials on student achievement.
4.28. Improving planning, management and program implementation functions of the DoE: The government
appointed an Additional Secretary Education (Planning and Coordination) and other staff as per the project plan.
This resulted in somewhat improved planning, management, and coordination but overall management including
financial management continues to be weak. An effective coordinating mechanism on all aspects of primary
education is still lacking in the secretariat. Overall, the DoE remains severely under-skilled, in terms of both the
breadth and depth of technical and managerial staff available to work on reform efforts in an informed and
effective way. The capacity of the Planning and Monitoring Cell to undertake evaluative studies/surveys has been
improved. SEMIS has been strengthened, and the GIS has been established to aid school mapping. The SEMIS
data verification plans have also improved the accuracy of the information it collects and these various activities
have made SEMIS a useful unit to help in educational planning in Sindh. Efforts were made to train DEOs,
Sub-divisional Education Officers and others in the use of data, GIS and school mapping for educational planning
and management. However, use of these data and management tools by the Department's management to
formulate and implement improved policies and programs is not yet well institutionalized. Over 1000 education
staff received management training. The ICR mission observed that a noticeable change is taking place in the role
of the field based supervisors in Sindh. The presence of materials, availability of funds and their expenditures by
the PTAs all distributed through these supervisors are signs of change in their roles and attitude. This
transformation is at a nascent stage and needs re-enforcement and continuous monitoring.
C.     Improving student achievement
4.29. Textbook Improvement and Development of Teacher Guides: The Sindh Textbook Board (STBB) in
1994, with the technical assistance of ODA/DFID, developed nine textbooks, in math, science, integrated
curriculum and English for grades I-II, IV and V. Science for grades I-II was made part of the integrated
curriculum and the remaining seven text books were introduced in schools. Work on this component was stopped
for sometime after the technical assistance completed its first phase and then restarted in 1996. The original,
overly-ambitious target of revising 30 manuscripts annually could not be achieved. In the second phase STBB,
through an open competition in which primary school teachers served as authors and reviewers for the first time
ever, developed 18 textbooks and teachers guides (TGs). Teachers' Guides replaced Learning Modules (LMs),
which were to be distributed to all schools in Sindh after their evaluation, because a study conducted to evaluate the
LMs did not find the modules appropriate for distribution. The primary school children and teachers could not
benefit from the revised 18 text books and TGs. These materials would, however, be available to the schools after
pilot testing scheduled by the STBB: Production of low-cost textbooks of better physical quality and durability as
compared to pre-project period textbooks through a more competitive process is an achievement of the project. The
subsidy by the STBB maintained prices close to and sometimes even below the 1990 level. The financial burden on
poor families did not increase during the project period. Low prices and affordability concerns have, however,
limited quality improvements to some extent. For example the cover card and book binding still needed
improvement. Government needs to examine feasibility of increasing prices to provide for a better quality
end-product. Printing and publishing capacity of private sector and the STBB was enhanced through provision of
- 6 -



technical assistance and development of handbooks for training in production and print technology.
4.29.1. Supplementary Reading Materials (SRMs): The project target was to supply SRMs to all primary
schools in three districts and evaluate their use for possible replication in all districts by June 30, 1992. Criterion
based reviews were conducted to select titles. The target was reduced to 150 titles when the project was
restructured because it was not considered feasible to achieve the target of supplying 600 titles to schools. 150
titles were purchased and distributed to the schools. A post-distribution survey indicated that SRMs were received
by 87% of urban and 77% of rural schools (some schools received SRMs during all the three phases and others
only once while the number of titles varied in each phase). Teachers guides for the SRMs were developed by the
Bureau of Curriculum and Extension Wing (BCEW) and were utilized during in-service teacher training
programs. The quality of the SRMs is variable, even though most teachers (70%) have positive perceptions of
them. One third of the teachers said that children have difficulty in reading and understanding the SRMs.
4.29.2. Continuous Assessment (CA) Records: A system for implementing the continuous assessment of all
pupils in the schools of the province was introduced in the 1996-97 school year. An output format for recording
student's progress was pilot tested and provided to schools. Discussion of the continuous assessment system was
part of the in-service teacher training program in six districts. Teacher manuals prepared by BCEW and provided
to schools also contain guidance on assessment. The project created awareness among teachers, head teachers, and
supervisors that the traditional end of year examination is not a sufficient and suitable mechanism to assess student
achievement. Results of a study conducted in 1999 show that 90% of the sample schools were using the format to
keep students records and LCs and supervisors were checking the format periodically. Most rural schools were
conducting quarterly tests and almost 90% of the rural heads said that they reported results to the parents and used
the results to improve teaching methodology. However, most teachers and supervisors lack an understanding of
the concept of continuous assessment and how to use the data. Variations in test design, content, administration
and grading make it difficult to assess the effectiveness of this important quality related initiative.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NPV was not worked out in the SAR, therefore it cannot be calculated at the completion of the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As in 4.3
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.51. Reorganization of the school education and decentralization of some functions in form, if not yet in
substance, to the district level was a positive achievement. Community, PTAs, and NGOs/private sector
participation in the delivery of primary education made a positive impact on improving access and commitment to
educational development. This expanded participation facilitated establishment of Community Supported and
Fellowship Schools, implementation of the SNP, training of around one-fourth of the PTAs and empowerment of
around 27,000 PTAs to procure educational materials, school repairs and furniture. Better awareness of education
issues among civil society, parents, and teachers through project-supported media efforts, seminars, workshops and
distribution of printed materials enabled a broader spectrum of the community to understand how stakeholders can
more effectively play a role in increasing access to and improving the quality of primary education. Financial
management capacity of the DoE's agencies remains weak and the need for an expert in financial matters is
acknowledged by the DoE. The overall impact of the project inputs at the level of the secretariat, division, district
and below has been less than it was expected. High turn over of key staff, and dearth of technical and professional
staff are among the major factors impeding development of the capacity of the DoE's implementing agencies.
4.52. Advances in the SEMIS and GIS/School mapping helped strengthen the potential for planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the elementary program. The program enhanced the capacity of the
Sindh Textbook Board to design textbook production, develop and pilot test textbooks before introducing them
-7 -



throughout the province. Foreign training of Board staff and provision of necessary desk top publishing facilities
helped them to develop and revise manuscripts. Similarly, DEEW was strengthened to meet heavy civil works
targets. The staff of the BCEW, selected directors, DEOs, SDEOs and supervisors were trained, equipment was
provided and the offices were computerized which helped the DoE to achieve satisfactory implementation progress.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The generally poor law and order situation in Pakistan was specially problematic in Sindh during the project
period and adversely affected implementation and outcomes. Travel was not possible to certain cities/areas in the
province and to some parts of certain cities thereby curtailing activities such as training, inspection, and quality
control. At times the Bank missions could not carry out field visits. Frequent changes of governments (six
governments in ten years) and top education officials in the province further made the policy consistency difficult,
understanding of the project and problems temporary, and implementation cumbersome. Economic crisis did not
allow the government part of the financing to come in time. Conservative gender norms have often inhibited the
participation of women in the project (e.g., membership in PTAs, mobility of female teachers and supervisors,
etc.), although change in this area was occurring slowly. The government cannot bring an overnight change in the
norms set by a conservative society which is still under the dominant influence of the feudal lords in rural Sindh.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The implementation of the project was adversely affected at the initial stages by problems such as unfilled key
positions in the DoE, frequent transfers of staff, poor disbursement of funds, political interference, lack of
qualified support staff and technical experts. The government decided only during the last two years of the project
life to involve communities, NGOs and PTAs to be partners in the delivery of primary education. Key
appointments of staff to deal with community participation and PTA training/monitoring had not been made and
funding delays have been common. Monitoring and evaluation system improved during the last two years; SEMIS
data were collected for private schools and other non-government schools only during last year of the project.
Achievements on the quality related components have been affected by inadequate institutional arrangements, lack
of technical expertise, delayed releases and weak monitoring. Forward planning was not done by the
implementing agencies. Proper accoumts keeping, getting them audited in time, attending to the audit observations
was very much in government control. Except for two years, audit reports were delayed. Format of reporting
including the opinion of the auditor were not consistent with the Bank's requirement. There are weaknesses in the
internal control system.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Sindh Education Foundation (SEF) and Aga Khan University have been the prime movers in establishing
partnerships and building capacity of government, NGOs, and local teachers/parents/communities. Their hard
work and enthusiasm have raised awareness about the importance of community participation among all
stakeholders, and they have developed a variety of high-quality training manuals and materials. Delays in
deciding the modalities to involve communities and NGOs and delayed funding slowed achievement in the areas of
PTAs training, and establishment of community and fellowship schools.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Government had to provide (a) 100% funding for travel allowance and other expenses of teachers participating in
in-service training programs, managers, administrators and supervisors receiving training; (b) 100% funding for
vehicles; (c) 30-40% for civil works; (d) around 10% for equipment, furniture, SRMs and other materials; and (e)
100% for classroom supplies. The government, at appraisal, assured provision of funds. This assurance was
largely met as far as the civil works, equipment and vehicles are concerned but the adequacy and timeliness of
provision of funds remained a problem for in-service teacher training and management training. The total project
- 8 -



expenditure was RS 5362.98 million (US$ 156.49 million) against the SAR cost estimates of Rs 4124.7 million
(US$196.4 million and government's re-revised PC-I cost estimates of Rs 7067.97 million. Disbursement out of
the IDA credit was around US$103.0 million against an original amount of US$112.5 million and restructured
amount of US$109.5 million. Out of a NORAD grant of NOK 22.67 million, NOK 17.92 million was spent.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.11. The project sustainability has been rated likely since the primary development objectives, particularly the
substantial increase in girls' enrollment, are likely to be sustained. However, the sustainability of a number of the
more innovative features introduced and piloted under the project remains uncertain because of financial
constraints and in some cases doubt about their effectiveness. The sustainability rating is based mainly on the
following factors: (a) the government of Sindh has been picking up the incremental teacher salaries from the very
start of the project and will continue to do so in future. The teachers are there to sustain the increased number of
children (including increased number of girls); (b) quality materials supplied to schools are likely to be used by the
teachers with the support of supervisors who were all trained under the project; (c) the large number of schools
constructed will remain available for use by the children (larger number for rural children); (d) SEMIS data
collection has been institutionalized and a culture is gradually developing in the DOE to use data, GIS and school
mapping in decision making; (e) presence of PTAs in itself would generate pressure for their increased
involvement in school affairs; (f) the commitment of the GoSindh to promote primary education can be seen from
the fact that the government has continuously been increasing the expenditures on primary education. Ratio of
expenditures on primary education to the total expenditures on education sector has been around 50% over the last
decade. Non-salary expenditures increase in 1998-99 was 335% over the 1993-94 expenditures. Expenditures on
educational materials and school repairs have been increasing since 1991-92 starting with zero allocations; and (g)
sustainability of the community participation components is somewhat more likely because of the substantial
interest and commitment of the Sindh Education Foundation (SEF) and the growing cadre of NGOs interested in
working in the education sector. However, by the time of completion of this report, no funds had been released by
the Finance Department for a number of the innovative activities introduced and piloted under SPEDP. GoSindh
is likely to allocate funds for some of these activities towards the second half of the fiscal year which has been the
practice in the past. This is, no doubt, not a good practice but use of this budgeting mechanism is likely to
continue till the fiscal health improves. This leaves the sustainability of a number of these activities in question.
6.12. A system of monitoring of primary education has been developed by the P&M Cell but the system needs to
be strengthened. The capacity of the DEEW has been strengthened for constructing school buildings. For routine
maintenance, capacity needs to be linked to the strengthening and sustainability of PTAs and their involvement in
school-based administration and support. The government needs to make a determined commitment to engage in a
long-term program of education reform and institutional capacity building to improve the efficiency of the DoE
including regularization of remaining positions funded under the project on the Annual Recurrent Budget; and
recruiting technical specialists and/or training the existing staff, especially in planning and financial management.
In particular, DoE needs to establish a sustained capacity to design and implement improved programs and policies
over time.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.21. Approximately six months prior to the closure of SPEDP, the government conveyed its interest to the Bank
for a follow-on project, focused on elementary education reform. Although discussions are still at the early stage,
the major objectives, as defined by government for the new project, are appropriate to carry forward the gains made
by SPEDP. With the assistance of the Bank, a PHRD grant has been obtained for undertaking an assessment of
what future technical and fiscal resource requirements may be necessary to improve elementary education (grades
1-8).
-9-



6.22. Most of the project-supported activities are part of the SAPP-II agenda. The Sindh Textbook Board is
continuing its activities of pilot testing the already developed 18 textbooks and teachers' guides. The Bureau of
Curriculum and Extension Wing has developed a plan to train teachers in two districts and to train additional
7,000 PTAs. Other implementing agencies have also developed PC-Is to continue critical activities and have
submitted them for provision of funds and approval of the Planning and Development Department.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance has been partially satisfactory. Objectives were clear, risks were appropriately
identified and possible remedies were also suggested. Lessons learned from previous Bank operations were
adequately incorporated in the design. Targets and scope for some of the project components were, however, overly
optimistic. Project performance indicators and financial management system were not part of the design. Project
covenants, although focused on important innovations in primary education, did not include modalities to pilot test
these innovations. Technical assistance and suggestions to implement these efforts, as well as more realistic
expectations, were called for in view of weak government capacity, lack of expertise, and resistance to change.
7.2 Supervision:
7.21. Project supervision has been flexible to keep pace with the changing implementation environment.
Continuity and responsiveness of supervision was enhanced by ensuring that responsibility was vested in staff
based in the Islamabad Field Office. This facilitated continuous contact with the implementing agencies. Efforts
were made to have a proper skill mix on the missions. In spite of difficult security and travel conditions in Sindh,
Bank supervision teams made informal visits to activity sites. The QAG rapid supervision assessment of the
project observed that significant adjustments were made to the project to maximize and sustain development
impact in spite of difficult conditions in Sindh. QAG noted, however, that the Bank staff was not able to assist the
borrower in substantially improving the financial management. There has been a disconnect between auditing and
procurement: although not all irregularities violated Bank guidelines, there were sufficient issues on procurement
raised in the audit report that warranted attention. However, the task team was constrained in taking legal action
on procurement issues (particularly under National Competitive bidding procedure) by the wording of the project
agreement signed in 1990, when financial management and governance issues were dealt with less systematically.
7.22. There were instances of weakness in Bank supervision. For example, support for ODA phase-2 required the
goverrnent to revise the PC-I. The Bank, during restructuring, again modified the project components, thereby
requiring government to revise the PC-I for the second time. The restructuring exercise proved to be a great
consumer of time. The role of technical assistance is another area where efforts should have been on collaborative
capacity development rather than on TA playing the lead implementing role. The overall technical assistance
strategy raises questions about the sustainability of the efforts it was meant to support.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is satisfactory. Every time a mission was fielded, the supervision strategy was
revised in the light of the experience of the previous supervision mission of this project and other projects in the
country. The implementation problems were identified in a timely way. The Bank's implementation assistance
was instrumental in bringing a very positive change in the approach of the Government of Sindh to work in
partnership with the civil society, private sector/NGOs, parents and teachers in the delivery of primary education.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The appraisal mission noted that excellent preparatory work was done by the Department of Education and
approval of the policy measures from the chief executive of the province was obtained prior to the arrival of the
- 1 0 -



mission. The Government planning document (PC-I) was prepared at the time of project negotiations. All the
policy measures were agreed. However, although the government was prepared for restructuring of the project in
1997, it took the government six months to sign the amended legal documents.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Despite weak management, scarcity of resources,
lack of expertise, and poor law and order situatiofn, the government implementation efforts of this complex project
resulted in doubling the girls enrollment; reducing wastage; changing the approach from government controlled
delivery of primary education to working in partnership with the civil society, NGOs, parents and teachers;
development and distribution of quality learning-teaching materials; institutionalization of SEMIS data collection,
and conducting a comprehensive teacher verification exercise to prevent ghost teachers.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Aga Khan University and Sindh Education Foundation are rated highly satisfactory for the work in mobilizing
the communities and the Directorate of Education Engineering Works for high achievement on civil works targets.
Sindh Textbook Board's performance in developing textbooks and teachers guides and distributing free textbooks
to rural girls was satisfactory. Performances of the BCEW in in-service teacher training, and of the Planning and
Coordination Wing in dealing with financial management and audit observations are rated marginally satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory based on above.
8. Lessons Learned
1) Efficiency in the provision of primary education improved with the active participation of PTAs, local
communities, NGOs and other public spirited individuals.
2) Experience with this project, wherein all the incentives were designed for girls, suggests that
increases in boys' enrollment cannot be taken for granted and increasing boys' access should also be
given priority in the planning of primary education.
3) In developing educational strategies, a realistic assessment needs to be made of the managerial technical
capacity of the implementing and managing institutions, including financial management, and availability of
resources. Developing a sustained capacity to design and implement improved policies and programs remains a
high priority.
4) In planning physical facilities for schools, educators and architects/engineers need to work together so that the
special needs of the pupils can be taken into consideration in the design of school furniture, blackboard location,
the need for flexibility of spatial arrangements and the provision of adequate sanitation facilities.
5) Procurement capacity should be assessed and procurement plans should be ready by Project Appraisal with
major procurement for the first year at an advanced stage by Project negotiation. Improvements in the Borrower's
National Competitive Bidding procedures, required for ensuring broad consistency with the Bank's procurement
guidelines, should be specified in the Legal Agreements. Close coordination between the Bank's financial
management and procurement staff is required in the review of audit reports.
6) The implementing agencies should be in the driving seat during project preparation. Failure of ownership is
likely to lead to failure in sustaining activities and skills.
- 11 -



7) Technical assistance needs to be in support of borrower efforts. Parallel, non-integrated efforts to support
projects with TA will do little to ensure transfer of skills and sustainability of them.
8) Project activities should be focused clearly through agreed performance indicators.
9) Ten-year programs with long-term vision should be planned but for the implementation purposes they should be
split into smaller projects of 3-4 year duration targeted on limited goals.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Sindh: Overall, SPEDP made satisfactory achievements including development of curriculum
materials, training program, improving management skills and providing financial resources to the primary
schools, although the general impact of project inputs at the district level and below was less than expected. The
project faced problems, such as delays in releases; high turnover of key staff; staffing problems; the capacity of the
implementing agencies not being developed; and the long period of implementation during which the government
had to revise the PC-I twice. Project Director of SPEDP was also PD of four other donor funded projects in
addition to his own functions in the education secretariat and this arrangement did not work well. The
performance of donors has also been deficient due to inadequate assessment of ground realities; donors' lack of
acknowledgment that reforms require a certain gestation period; excessive demands placed on the implementing
agencies by supervision missions (SPEDP, SAP, ADB and other donor missions), which left little time to
undertake project planning, management and monitoring; and weak coordination by consultants with the
secretariat.
(b) Cofinanciers:
DFID: Although progress was made against each of the outputs, frequent transfers of key staff, problems with
finance and political interference contributed greatly to implementation difficulties. Activities needing replication
include: (a) the innovative schemes fund administered by the Sindh Education Foundation; (b) the integration of
components, such as monitoring and management development, has greatly strengthened the impact of both, for
example, the use of SEMIS and school mapping for management strengthening; and (c) most progress was made
when the Education Department, the donors and the technical assistance teams worked together as partners. To
institutionalize and sustain project innovations which were attained, sufficient funding will be required after the
project, in addition to effective and rational planning of human resource requirements. Lessons from the project
include questions about government commitment and capacity to implement development activities and system
reform; the time frame to implement quality development, which was longer than anticipated and resulted in many
of the objectives being unattainable; a smaller number of components prepared with full participation of all
stakeholders and keeping program sustainability in view should have been included.
NORAD: NORAD-funded components have been part of the most successful components of SPEDP and have
contributed positively to the project's objectives, albeit with varying levels of achievement among the three
components. The SNP was assessed as the most successful in the joint research report of October 1998 on the
impact study prepared by the Institute of Educational Development, AKU, the University of Bristol and Oslo
College. The scholarship program was far behind schedule, although implementation improved during the last two
years of the program period. The free textbooks program for girls faced administrative problems. The DoE had a
limited capacity to execute certain components of the program, and a more facilitating attitude, stronger "culture"
of "ownership," and accountability would have made all the difference. Other problems included financial
management concerns and lack of proper reporting of results. Coordination with the Bank has been positive,
although delays in communicating comments on audit reports and Bank's disbursement rules caused frustrations.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
SEF: The community supported schools program has been a positive experience. Although it faced difficulties at
- 12 -



first due to peculiar conditions, the program's procedures were adapted using other contemporary experiences.
Community support has been strong, although financing problems did exist. Overall, the province has gained
because of the project, although disinterest on part of the government did lead to lapses in the project.
AKU: SNP was successful in demonstrating how communities and teachers can be mobilized to make a difference
in nutrition status, enrollment and attendance. Problems included repeated delays in release of funds; inadequate
staffing; difficulties in developing effective collaboration between NGOs and DoE at the district level. Support of
DoE at provincial level was always appreciated, but the relationship of AKU and DoE could have been better at all
levels. The Oslo-based consultants (IMTEC) and NORAD's help was critical to AKU. There were ups and downs
in the role of the Bank but it became smooth once its leadership became constant.
10. Additional Information
(See attached Annexes)
-13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I   act Indicators:                                                  WHOM
1. Increase participation rate for girls from    Gross enrollment of girls: 792,000 of which  (Source: SEMIS data): Girls enrollment in
31% to 51% and for boys from 72% to 88%   426,500 were rural girls in public schools.  public schools only: 796,790 (including
Boys enrollment was not mentioned. It was  425,327 rural girls).
only said that increase in boys enrollment   - Girls enrollment in all schools of Sindh:
during 1998-99 was 1.39% only.         1,127,282 (including 489,844 rural girls)
- Gross participation rate (GPR) in 1998:
Girls: 50.41% (rural girls: 39.2%; increase in
rural girls GPR was 25.2% in 12 years,
much higher than estimated increase of 18%
in the SAR); Boys: 75% (Rural boys: 76.9%)
against SAR projection of 73%.
(Source: PIHS data): GPR (grade l-V): 73%;
Boys: 83%; and Girls: 62%. Net Enrollment
Rates: Overall: 45%; Boys: 51%; Girls: 39%
2. Decrease rates of repeaters from 13% and Repeaters rates decreased to 7% and 5.26% Repeaters rates decreased to 5. 1% and 4%
12% to 6% and 7% respectively for boys and respectively for boys and girls.  respectively.
girls
3. Reduce drop-out rate by 50% (SAR noted No projection, because by that time SEMIS  The overall drop-out ranged between 15.75%
that drop-out rate between grades 1 & 2 in   data analysis was not complete.  (7.16% for boys & 33.16% for girls) in
rural schools was 50%; no other drop-out                                     1994-95 and 16.22% (7.55% for boys &
rates were mentioned).                                                       32.33% for girls) in 1998-99. No
improvement was observed on the overall
basis. But according to SEMIS data 1998,
the drop-out between grades 1 & 2 was 31%
for rural boys and (- 61% ) for rural girls
which shows improvement.
4. Train 1600 new teachers annually through Number of new entrants in the GCETs was  Number of new entrants was 1800 in 1998.
GCETs pre-service training program    1800 against a target of 1600.         In 1992-93, the number of new
entrants was 1853. The number of new
entrants decreased to 1142 in 1993-94, 781
in 1994-95, and came down to 350 in
1995-96 because, according to the DOE, the
colleges were not receiving enough
applications from new entrants and they were
training already appointed untrained
teachers. During 1996-97 and 1997-98, the
number of new entrants rose to above 1600
per year.
5. Decrease number of un-trained teachers  Number of un-trained teachers decreased    Number of un-trained teachers decreased
from 49% (1992 data) to 7.06% in 1998.    from 49% (1992 data) to 7.06% in 1998.
6. Localize primary teacher recruitment in    Not discussed because evidence was being The project supervision report of April 1994
rural areas at Union Council level    collected.                             noted that localization of female teachers
recruitment, relaxed age and entry
qualifications helped in employing 200
female teachers during the first three years
of the project. 6000 teachers including
females were recruited under direct Federal
Govemment assisted program of
employment generation in Sindh. Localized
recruitment is now part of the recruitment
rules of the primary school teachers. The
policy helped in establishment of community
managed and fellowship schools and making
closed schools functional.
- 14 -



7. Bring students/ teacher ratio to the level of Students/teacher ratio in boys and girls  Students/teacher ratio in boys and girls
40/1 in large govemment primary schools,   schools was 20/1 and 29/1 and on the overall schools was 20/1 and 29/1 and on the overall
and 25/1 in other govemment primary   22.5/1.                                22/1.
schools from an average of 20/1 initially
8. Allow qualified persons working in the  Percentage of faculty members in GCETs   Amended service rules allowing qualified
primary education sector to compete for all  with primary school experience was 62%.   PSTs to compete for GCETs faculty
GCETs faculty positions.                                                     positions were with the Sindh Public Service
Commission for approval. In 1999, however,
out of the total working staff of 167 faculty, a
sizable percentage (62%) had primary
school teaching experience. But there is no
evidence to show how far such faculty
members were able to raise the professional
status of their trainees in the GCETs.
9. Strengthen program planning and    GIS/School mapping and SEMIS data      The Data Collection has been
monitoring capacity through effective data   collection was institutionalized and the  institutionalized. GIS/School Mapping was
collection and school planning        annual school census is conducted regularly. established. Investments in SEMIS have
Monitoring and evaluation system is   improved the capacity of the unit to collect
improving and evaluation studies and  data. The efforts to improve the accuracy of
surveys are being carried out. The SEMIS,  the data collected and its use in planning
however, needs to develop sound procedures (e.g., identifying closed schools, irrational
of data verification and intemalizing it in its  staff distribution, release of funds to PTAs,
work program. The DOE has started using  identification of school clusters for teacher
GIS/School mapping for planning and   training and PTAs training etc.) has made
monitoring purposes.                   SEMIS a useful unit for educational planning
in Sindh. But the gains achieved so far by
the unit need to be strengthened. The
Planning and Monitoring Cell (P&M Cell) of
the DoE has developed a Monitorng System
and has conducted studies to measure the
impact of NORAD supported components
and wrote reports on the training sessions
held to disseminate the results of GIS/school
mapping among the Directors and DEOs.
This Cell also needs further resources for its
strengthening and continuing & expanding its
activities.
10. Increase community and NGOs       200 community and NGOs' supported      BCEW, in coordination with DoE field staff,
participation in the delivery of primary  schools were established enrolling 12,400   SEF and NGOs, trained 1,895 PTAs in four
education                             children. 1896 PTAs (against a target of    districts in 1998-99. Adding this number to
1860) were trained using credit funds. Total previous training activities, a total of 7,569
number of trained PTAs was 7540 or 20% of (or 22%) of all PTAs had received training.
the total number of schools/PTAs.      Females are strongly encouraged to
participate, but the primary membership is
male. DoE distributed a booklet explaining
the roles and responsibilities of PTAs. Lists
of around 27,000 primary school PTAs
receiving grants from the govemment and
specific amounts for educational materials;
school repairs; and fumiture were published
in newspapers. Numerous seminars on the
provincial and district levels have been held
to raise general public awareness of the roles
of communities in education. A PTA data
base is kept by SEMIS.
-15 -



Output Indicators:
1. Complete 16,800 classrooms, 2,500  98.2% targets of civil works were achieved.  17,063 classrooms, 1072 boundary walls
boundary walls and 2,100 water supply                                        and 1136 water supply schemes were
schemes                                                                      completed. The remaining targets of
boundary walls and water supply schemes
were made part of the Integrated School
Rehabilitation Program during restructuring
of the project and thus almost 1 00% targets
were achieved. 682,520 students, using
17063 classrooms (40 students per
classroom), are benefiting annually from the
new and improved leaming environment.
2. Provide scholarships to 1 000 rural girls   Scholarships were awarded to 2321 rural    A total of 2321 girls benefited from the
annually to complete secondary school  girls during the project period.      program. The component has not fully met
education after completing grade V                                           its targets of reaching 1000 girls/year. 79%
of girls who started receiving scholarships in
grade 6 completed grade 8 and 83% of girls
who started receiving scholarships in grade
9 completed secondary school education.
The rest would complete these grades in the
coming years. Initially, amount of
scholarship was RS 100/month per student
which was increased to RS 250/month
during 1997 on the recommendations of the
communities and the Do E.
3. Make School Nutrition Program (SNP)    SNP was made functional in 148 schools.   SNP was made functional in 148 schools
fully functional in 150 schools                                              (50% girls) in seven distncts against a
revised target of 150 and oiginal target of
200 schools.
4. Train about 8,000 teachers in pilot  7390 personnel (including 8609 teachers)   5299 teachers were trained in two pilot
program by 1991-92. Evaluate by end of    were trained through in-service training  districts. Subsequently when the program
1991-92 for replication in other districts.    program.                      was replicated after its evaluation, a total of
Thereafter, train about 12,000 teachers                                      12,609 teachers were trained in six districts
annually,                                                                    from 1992-98. This was 19% of the SAR
target of 68,000 teachers and 47% of the
PC-I target of 26,832 teachers. In addition,
810 head teachers, 457 supervisors and 525
trainers, resource persons and researchers
were trained.
5. Provide free textbooks to all rural girls    159,980 sets of free textbooks were  The number of sets of free textbooks ranged
enrolled in grades 1-5                distributed to rural girls in 1999. Rural girls in between 125,156 in 1995 and 217,580 in
mixed schools were not provided free sets of 1998. During 1999, the number of sets
textbooks because the DOE was of the view  distributed was 159,980. Rural girls in mixed
that it would serve as disincentive for the    schools were not provided free sets of
boys in mixed schools.                textbooks because the DoE was of the view
that it would serve as disincentive for the
boys in mixed schools.
6. Distribute 600 titles of Supplementary .  52 additional titles of SRMs were procured   1 50 titles were distributed to 15000 schools
Reading Materials (SRMs) to primary   during November-December 1998 and thus  in three phases.
schools. (The target was reduced to 150   increasing the total to 150 titles.
titles during restructuring of the project)
7. Establishment of 60 School Development 38 SDCs were established           38 SDCs were established due to time
Centers (SDCs) in prmary/middle schools to                                   consuming process of establishing such
serve as resource centers for primary school                                 centers and late establishment of GIS/School
teachers.                                                                    mapping which were to be used to evenly
distribute these centers, each serving a
cluster of schools.
N.B. Performance indicators were added during restructuring of the project in 1997.
End of project
- 1 6 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)   __
Appraisal     ActuaULatest   Percentage
Estimate        Esfimate    of Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                US$ million     US$ million
Civil Works                                             126.70          156.35        123.4
Furniture & Equipment                                     1.70            1.47         86.5
Vehicles                                                  1.20            0.91         75.8
Printed Materials                                        11.60            4.02         34.7
Food                                                      3.50            1.01         31.4
Technical Assistance                                      5.00           10.71        214.2
Administrative salaries and allowances                    1.20            3.47        289.2
Scholarships                                              0.40            0.15         37.5
Classroom Materials                                       7.80            7.47         95.8
Support to communities and NGOs                           0.00            0.35            0
Total Baseline Cost                                     159.10          185.91
Physical Contingencies                                  37.40
Total Project Costs                196.50          185.91
Total Financing Required                196.50          185.91
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB               2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00         157.60         0.00          0.00         157.60
(0.00)       (94.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (94.00)
2. Goods                      1.20          0.80          1.40          0.00          3.40
(1.20)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.20)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          6.20          0.00          6.20
(Technical Assistance)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.90)        (0.00)        (3.90)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Printing and publishing    6.40          2.20          6.10          0.00         14.70
Supplementary Readers       (6.40)        (2.20)        (4.20)        (0.00)       (12.80)
5. Food related items &       0.00          0.00          9.90          4.50         14.40
Incremental recurrent        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.30)
costs, scholarships                       _
Total                      7.60          160.60        23.60         4.50         196.30
(7.60)       (96.20)       (8.40)        (0.00)       (112.20)
- 17 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenturi Category                                      ;                   B          Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00          156.35          0.00           0.00           156.35
(0.00)        (96.56)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (96.56)
2. Goods                         0.00           3.04                          1.38            4.42
(0.00)         (1.41)           (            (0.00)         (1.41)
3. Services                      0.00            1.40          3.10           9.30           13.80
(Technical Assistance)          (0.00)          (1.23)         (1.40)        (0.00)          (2.63)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Printing and publishing       0.00            1.87          0.00           0.00            1.87
Supplementary Readers          (0.00)         (1.80)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.80)
5. Food related items &          0.00           0.19           0.00           1.16            1.35
Incremental recurrent           (0.00)          (0.16)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.16)
costs, scholarships
Total                         0.00           162.85         3.10           11.84          177.79
(0.00)        (101.16)        (1.40)         (0.00)        (102.56)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
"Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              A  raisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate    Pcaop i
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works              94.00      63.60               96.56      59.79      0.00    102.7  94.0   0.0
Text related Items       12.90                 1.90      2.57      0.07       1.38     19.9   0.0   72.6
Equipment, Furniture &    1.20      2.20                 1.40      0.98       0.00    116.7  44.5   0.0
Vehicles
Food                                          4.50       0.00      0.00       1.01     0.0    0.0   22.4
Scholarships                                  0.20       0.00      0.00       0.15     0.0    0.0   75.0
Technical Assistance      3.90                2.20       1.41      0.00       9.30    36.2   0.0   422.7
Administrative Salaries &  0.30     1.40                 1.56      1.91       0.00    520.0  136.5   0.0
Allowances
Classroom Supplies                  8.00                 0.00      7.47       0.00     0.0   93.4   0.0
Support to communities    0.00      0.00      0.00       0.35      0.00       0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
and NGOs
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal, therefore, no
economics costs and benefits analysis has been carried out at the time of ICR.
- 1 9 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Pre
paration               10   Three Economists, three
1986 to 1989                 Education Sp., one Project
Adviser/Educator, Two
Implementation Sp., one
Education Planner
AppraisallNegotiation
9/89 and 1/90           6   One Edu. Sp., One
Economist, One Architect,
One Sp. from LEGEM, one
from LOAEL, one Impl. Sp.
Supervision
6/90 and 11/90           3  One General Educator, one            HS                 HS
Proj. Advisor and one Impl.
Sp./Consultant
5/91 and 11/91           6  One General Educator, one Proj.       S                 HS
Advisor, One Impl. Sp, One
Architect/Consultant and two
Disbursement Officer
7/92 and 10/92           5  One Proj. Advisor, Two Edu.           S                 S
Sp., One Architect/consultant,
one Researcher
2/93                 2 IDA   One Edu. Sp., one Impl. Sp.          U                 U
and 2
from
ODAI
NORAD
8/93              5/IDA &4  One Impl. Sp., two Edu. Sp., one      S                 S
/ ODA,  Architect, one Disbursement
NORAD   Officer
4/94               5/IDA &   One Impl. Sp., one Edu. Sp., one     S                  S
4/ODA,  Economist, one Financial
NORAD   Analyst & one Architect
10/94             4/IDA &   One Impl. Sp., one Edu. Sp., one      S                 S
5/ ODA,  Project Advisor/Edu. Sp., one
NORAD  POO
5/95                 5/IDA   One Senior HRS, one Project          S                 S
and  Advisor/Edu. Sp., one
4/ODA   Examination Consultant, one
Architect & one EMIS
consultant
- 20 -



11/95              2/IDA,  One Edu. Sp., & one Architect        S                 S
5/0DA,
NORAD
5/96              4/IDA &   One Edu. Sp., one Senior HIRS,      S                 S
4/ODA,  one Architect, one Cur. &
NORAD   Training consultant
9/96              3/IDA &   One Edu. Sp., one Architect &       S                 S
4/ODA,  one Cur. and Training consultant
NORAD
1/97 &6/97       3 & reps.  2 Edu Sp. & one Senior HRS          S                 S
of ODA,
NORAD
12/97 & 6/98     7 & reps.  2 Edu. Sp., one Economist, one      S                 U
of ODA,  Community Sp., one Cur. &
NORA4D   Training Sp. and one
Architect/Consultant
12/98 & 6/99     5 & reps.  One Edu. Sp., one Economist,        S                 S
of ODA,  one Social Development Sp., one
NORAD   Cur. & Training Sp. and one
Architect/consultant
ICR
9/99                    6   2 Edu. Sp., one International       S                 S
Consultant (Edu), one
Economist/consultant, one
Architect/consultant and one
Social Sector Development
Sp. Back supported by FMS,
Disbursement Sp. and
Procurement Sp.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             uS$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation              86.0                       199.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                   36.3                        88.9
Supervision                            228.2                       439.2
ICR                                     66.2                       136.7
Total                                  416.7                       864.6
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
@ Macro policies                           OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
Z Sector Policies                          OH  OSU*M  ON  ONA
N Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Institutional Development                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
0 Environmental
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 OH  OSU*M  ON  ONA
@ Gender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
I Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development
CI Public sector management
O Other (Please specify)
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
61 Bank performance                                  Rating
E  Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                        O HS * S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
-23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bakhtiari, Quratul Ain. Community Support Component. 5 May - 30 Sept. 1997.
British Council. PTA Grants Survey. April 1999
Dean, David. Development of Frameworkfor School Inspection. Jan 98 Report 98/1
Dean, David/Akhtar, P. A Plan for the Verification of SEMIS School Census Data. Feb. 98, Report 98/2
Department of Education. Formation and Functionalization of PTAs in Primary Schools.
DFID, TA Team: Comments on the Performance Evaluation of SPEDP by Nadeem and others.
September 1999
DFID. Pakistan Management Development Workshop (Bhurban, Pakistan). 8-112 June 1998.
DFID. Pakistan Management Development Workshop (District Karachi East and West. 2-4 Nov. 1998
DFID. Pakistan Management Development Workshop (Shikarpur and Sukkur). 9-11 Nov. 1998
DFID. SPEDP-II Supervisory Training manual. 1998.
DFID and British Council. Enhancing Capabilities for Community Participation: Revisiting Practices in
Education Development,. 1999
DOE, Planning and Monitoring Cell: Evaluation of NORAD funded Components. July 1999
Government of Sindh, DOE. SEMIS Sindh Profiles. 1992-1998
Government of Sindh, DOE. SAPP-II- OP (1999-2000). July 1999
Government of Sindh, DOE. Borrower contribution. September 1999.
IDA. Completion Mission Aide-Memoire. September 15 Revised November 8, 1999
IDA. Development Credit Agreement (Credit 2102 - PAK)
IDA. Project Agreement
IDA. Reports of Various Supervision Mission 1993-1999
Iqbal, M. and Zaki, M. Distribution and use of SRMs -A survey. June 1999
Iqbal, M. and Zaki, M. Survey of Continuous Assessment System in Sindh. June 1999
Khan, S. Kausar; Farooqui, arshi; and Ahmed, Rafiq. School Nutrition Program SNP Impact Studies,
June 1999
-24 -



Memon, M. Dr. and Mithani Shahzad. Evaluation of Learning Modules Developed under the Second
Primary Education Project (PEP-II) in Sindh (Phase-I). May 1996
Memon, M. Dr. and Mithani Shahzad. Evaluation of Learning Modules Developed under the Second
Primary Education Project (PEP-II) in Sindh (Phase-II). July 1996
Nadeem and Others. Performance Evaluation of SPEDP. August 1999
NIPA. Empowering communitiesfor Education. Feb. 16-19, 1998
Prenton, Keith. Final Evaluation Report (program Development and analytical Evaluation). Dec. 1995
Prenton, Keith. SPEDP: In-Service Training program Report on the Establishment of a School
Development Centre at GBPS Tiny Tots, Karachi. 1995
Qadir, Ghulam. Survey of the Community and Fellowship Schools. July 1999
QAG. Rapid Supervision Assessment 1999. September 1999
Yasmeen Memon. Recommendation for School Development Awards. 1997
- 25 -



SPEDP - Credit 2102-PAK
Annex 8.1. Enrolment and Participation Rates (PR) -Province of Sindh, Pakistan
Enrolment and Participation Rates    Enrolment in Urban Areas    Enrolment In Rural            Total
Areas                            _ _ _   _ _ _
Boys   Girls    Total      Boys      Girls      Total    Boys      Girls   Total
Enrolment in 86-87 (SAR Annex-4 Table 1)  599000   410000   1009000    781000    154000   935000   1380000  564000  1944000
Projection for 98-99 (SAR page 66)   817000   576000   1393000   1282000    451000  1733000   2099000 1027000  3126000
Participation rates 86-87 (SAR page 67)  76       56        66        69         14       42        72    30.8       52
Enrolments in 1998-99 (Table 1-a)    748408   637438   1385846   1085470    489844  1575314   1833878 1127282  2961160
Enrolment increase over 86-87        149408   227438    376846    304470    335844   640314    453878  563282  1017160
Percentage increase over 86-87      24.9429  55.4727   37.3485  38.98464  218.0805 68.48278   32.8897 99.8727 52.32305
Population of 5-9 age group census 98  1032581   987342   2019923   1411429   1248887  2660316   2444010 2236229  4680239
PR for 98-99                        72.4794   64.561   68.6089  76.90575  39.22244  59.2153   75.0356   50.41 63.26942
Projected Participation rates 98-99 ( SAR)  62    50        57        82         32       57        73      40        57
Enrolment only in public schools     417020   371463    788483   1052849    425327  1478176   1469869  7        2268859
Participation Rates in Public Schools only  40    38        39        75         34       56        60      36        48
PR in public schools (1986-87) = 43%
PR in public schools (1998-99) = 48.43%
Province wide PR (1986-87) = 52%
Province wide PR (1986-87j = 63.3%
Source: 1. Province wide enrolments
have been taken from SEMIS
data 1998.
2. Population (5-9 age group have been
taken from Bureau of Statistics, Sindh
who have taken these data from 1998
National Census).
3. SEMIS has almost covered 80% of the private schools,
therefore there is around another 12-15%
enrolment in the schools not covered by EMIS.
This is one reason why boys enrolment in urban
schools looks low.
- 26 -



Annex 8.2. Enrolment at Primary Level in Province of Sindh - SEMIS Data 1998
(Rural-  Urban           &    Boys-  Girls)
Sector        School Level No of    Enrolment in Urban            Enrolment in Rural           Total
Schools         Areas                       Areas
Boys      Girls    Total    Boys    Girls   Total    Boys         Girls    Total
Government   Primary           38290   417020    371463  788483   1052849 425327 1478176   1469869   796790 2266659
Secondary        3606
TOW             41896   41702      371463  78483   105284  425327 T47817    1469869    7967   2266659
Private       Primary            83    29049      22977   520276               16669      7      31380    246448  56025
Secondary        1732
ToW l            257    29049;/    22977  52027        2330    16669   3997       31302   24644  3ai5
NGO Managed Primary              182      643        757    1400        201    5410    56111        844     6167    701
Secondary           4
TIbta                       t46 640 75' _                 201 ___1    i                       616X    701
Others*       Primary            270
Secondary          76    23032      27612   50644       2444    1567   4011        25476    29179   54655
Totat             346    2303-      27601 50644          21444    156    417       2547     29179   5465
Community    Primary              96                 394     394        219      73     294         219     3124    3343
Managed
Non-formal    Primary           1441    16983       2150   19133       6062   28536   34598       23045    30686   53731
SPEDP           .n               220      233       5283    5516        390 79605    999            623    148815511
supported
Comm./Fellows
hip Schools
GrandToal   Primary            39896   707750    606919 1314669       76011 454331  53034          3761      2     t 1
Secondary        54181   23675      28369   52044      36606    6977   43583       60281    35346   95627
45311   748408    637431 13S5S       105471 4894  157531    1i    1 127282  9611
$ Schools managed by Federal Govemment, Cantonment Boards, Local
Govemment, Autonomous Bodies, etc.
27



Annex 8.3. Sindh Province - position of Repeaters, Drop-out and Transition rates at Primary Level
Item       1994-95            ~          1995-96                     1996-97                  1997-98                    1998-99
Boys     Girls     Total     Boys  I Girls    Total    Boys    Girls   Total   Boys    Girls    Total    Boys    Girls    Total
Enrolment   1484276   732669   2216945  1473292  753750  2227042  1514887  762371 2277258 1450027  772612  2222639  1469869  796790  2266659
Repeaters    134628    49208    183836   136983   53839   190822   110690   39927  150617   79915   32558   112473    75053   32076   107129
Drop-out     106,250  242,944   349,194   68,991  169,033  238,024  106,143 235,585 341,728 110,517 264,413  374,930   110,963 256,767   367730
Repeaters       9.07     6.72       8,29     9.30    7.14      8.57      7.31    5.24    6.61    5.51    4.21       5.06     5.11     4.03     4.73
Drop-out %     7.16    33.16      15.75     4.68   22.43     10.69      7.01   30.90   15.01     7.62   34.22     16.87     7.55   32.23      16.22
* Number of repeaters Includes unadmitted and Kachi class repeaters.
* Number of Dropouts Is from Grade I to V
Transition Rates (TRs) from Grade I to Grade VI
N_                                      1986-87 (1)                  1998-99 (2)
Boys      Girls     Total    Boys    Girls    Total
TRs- Gr I-    43%        47%      44%      52%      54%       53%
V
TRs- Gr I-    25%        22%      24%      48%      53%       60%
,VI
(1) SAR Table 4, Page 50
(2) Table 1 (d)



Annex 8.4. Transition Rates - Sindh, Pakistan                                                           Page I of 2
Boys in Urban area    Annual gross transition rate in primary      Enrollment (=Transition+Repeaters+NewEntrants)
grades
II      III        IV      V      VI                 I                          li Ill  IV  V      VI
1992       100%            - _           -        - _            1992
1993_    _   100%__ 90%__                           92%                        105%  1993108,515    91,280  78,046   68,370    57,176  59,757
1993       150-0%   -I%~   90%          92%/    92%   105%/       1993
1994____ 100%___ 80  9%   4% 9%  7%   194     105,829    88,419  81,882  71,951    63,054     60,071
1994       100%      80~ 9%             94%      9%     9%        19
i_______ _______                     _____    95,169    84,557  81,108  76,674    66,380      61,014
1995       100%      82%      8         90%      90%    90%      1995                         -
i_______  _____ ________ __1995      95,855    77,877  75,1151 72,679    68,746      59,636
1996       1 00%     79%      91%       95%       M    87%        1996
1997_ 100%_    73% 8                          8% 89%   85%1997100,282    75,659  70,657  71,354  : 67,785  59.476
1997       100%      73%  -86%          8 9%     85%     9%      1997
87,773    72,928  64,850  62,721    60,796     64.124
1998       100%      77%      88%       91%      90%              1998
I                          ~~~~~~~~~85,8401  67,4971 63,839  5893 56,303   57,981
Girls In Urban area
ii ,1 III         IV       v      VI                 I         Ii      III      IV       v         VI
1992       100%       -        -         -        -      -       1992
1309%9%1,773  6,3831 63,465   55,652    46,267  50,281
1993       100%      83%      91%       94%      89%   108%      1993
1994_____    100%                       | 91% | 87% | 107%  |     88,453| 76,987l 69,388  59,538    49,346        49,832
1994       100%      79%/    19         91       87%   10O7%/   1-9-94
.. _______                          1  82,098    70,013   67,931  63,238    51,845     52,995
1995       100%      82%      94%       93%      91%   104% /    1995
_________         ________                             80,317    67,421   66,131   63,2851  57.603     53,790
1996       100%      79%      92%       91%    920A   91%        1996
________  I_______  _____ 1                  ____    85,104    63,605  61,880   60,472    58.400      52,632
1997       100% /    76%      92%1    94%        92% 0  i98%      1997                    t '         5     '  t7'026
1998___     100%___   ___ 81%    ___ 89%__ j  -1     0      6               77,6061   65,0431  58,4231  57,9021   55,8021    57,025
1998       100%      81%      89%       91%      90%   9N6%00     1998                    t___   ___________
I________  I________  I_______  I______  I____    _____  _____  72,474  62,629,   58,192  53,378  51,9251  53,332
Boys In Rural area
z I           11      III       IV        V      VI                 I        It      IlI      IV        V         VI
1992       100%      --        -         -        -      -       1992
%    7 2 __83%            87%  ____                        263,152   183.372  151,059  134,649   106,391    42,030
1993       100%       20       3%       87       87%    38%      1993
243.161   182.143  152,522 131,883   117,500    40,329
1994       10%        d/F      5%-    91%        9%     3%       1994
221,077   176,212  165.056  138,060   118,347   42,848
1995        100%       76%     8 5%      89%K    88%  I33%  II19951               1        1                                     i
1995 I   I           7    .._L5%             ....... 19 1         1      1 1236,123   166,9401 148,997, 138,678   122,041,   38,970
1996       100%       70%        85% - 89%   p8-7-%    32%/   1996                                               *          *
1996                   7    j             8      j        3         1996    264,617   166,302 142,468 132,522   120,670      38,649
1997       100%      64%      81%       84%      84%    90%       1997
I_______ i           I      I          l         l      l231,555   168,284  135,151  119,447   110,726    108,784
1998       100%      70%      84%       88%      87%    91%/o    1998
I______   I__ _  I_ _                                 232,6251  161,403  141,274  119,083   103,371    101,053
- 29 -



Page 2 of 2
Girls In Rural area
I I      III       IV       V      VI                I      Z     I III          lv      V         vI
1992                                                            1992 -    777199
1992_____                               =                                  19      92  ,  56,786r  45,734  38,250  26,272  6,947
1993      100      7%        85%       87%     84%    29        1993
_______                                         ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~83,321    5~7248,124  39,894  32,320  7,700
1994      100%     69 0   *    0j    84%       83%    26%       1994
1995  100%  74%  82%  86%     ; 27%   1995      73,983    57,3651  47,810  40,216  32,993      8,499
199-5    1 00%/    7 4%/     82%    f0008.\6 ;  86%    27%      1995        .        .      .    
________  d000000               1   78,623    54,780  46,913|  4129  34,605         8,836
1998      1 00%    68%       81%       83%     i       25%      1996
_________ _______ __ _  A   _ 89,568    53,368  44,458  38,927  33        8.605
1997      100%     64%       83%       87%     88%       %      1997
______ ________ _______                  ~~~~~~~ ~~~82,575    57,527  44,428, 38,748  3420 33,44
1998      100%     89%       87%       91%      89%    96%      1998
1998      100% _________     87_   _  91%       89%    96%      1998      87,085    56,597  49,812  40,400  34,607      33,042
Total Slndh
I   lV            III       IV       V      VI                I   l     I        III     IV       V        VI
1992                                                            1992     
____.__g>g<XW.9  .0S _             5     B  407,821 338,304 296,921 236,106    159,015
11993      tO%7m'     86%                90h    88%    67%       1993  _         ;   :    
1 0_    100%   7m  86% _90%                           520,764  4,    351.916 303,266 262,220    157,932
1994      100%     75%       87        90%      89%    63%      1994
472,327   388,147 35104 318,188 269,565    165,356
1995      100%     78%       87%      -90%-  89%   60%          1995
490,918   367,018 337,156 01$A611 282,995    161,232
1996      100%     73%       87%       90%   10%    56%         1996
i_______  i\00            =539,571  358,934 319,463 303,275 0            159,362
1997      100%     67%       84%       87% 09   86%    94%      1997
..______ ____-._  ____  479,509   363,782 302,852 278,818 261,614    283.37
1998      100%     73%       86%       90%   - 88%  I94%        1998iI
__9___8_ I 100%    73%       869/6 _   90%      88%    94_/6            478,024   348,126 313,117 271,824 246,2061  245,4081
%age reaching grade V                               Gross percentage of pupil enrolled in 1992 in
grade-I and who continued to grade 6:
Urban   Rural       Total                                   Urban    Rural   Total
Boys      62%      48%        52%                            Boy      59%        43%      48%
Girls     64%     44%        54%                             Girls   62%        43%       53%
Total     63%1 46/7%1         53%                            Total 6I 60%     I 43%    I 50%
- 30  -



Page I of 2
Annex 9. Total teaching staff -Sindh, Pakistan (Qualifications, trained-untrained & male-female)
School                                                 Male                                                                        Female                                      Grand Total
Level     Year                              Trained                                Un-    Total                         Trained       O                  Un-    Total    Trained  |Untrained
PTC          CT       B.Ed    M.Ed    Other    Total                             PTC      C       B.ETMEd   O             Ttal Trained
Pnmary    1995          42,139      2,622     3,137       76      703     48,677   22,434   71,111    16,522   1,775      898     37        90 19,322     7,678    27,000       67,999      30,112
1996         51,913     2,630     3,671      143       591     58,948    16,061    75,009    19,201    1,983   1,132   67      101 22,484      5,251    27,735      81,432      21,312
1997        55,993      3,714     5,323      208       449     65,687    5,551    71,238    20,452   2,313   1,736     78      108 24,687     2,355    27,042       90,374       7,906
1998         54,638     4,537     7,934      305       610     68,024    5,127   73,151    20,151   2,480   2,410    136        94 25,271      1,965    27,236      93,295       7,092
Middle     1995            393        879     1,093      126      704      3,195     1,945    5,140       90      644   1,005     89       257  2,085     1,349     3,434        5,280       3,294
1998           539       1,082    1,320      194       818      3,953    2,127    6,080       100     809   1,141      97      311  2,458      1,377    3,835        6,411       3,504
1997           609       1,331    1,531      202       885      4,558    1,235    5,793        81     890   1,132    108       283  2,494      1,051    3,545        7,052       2,286
1998           548       1,456    1,725      294       985      5,008      902    5,910        72   1,025   1,200    158       394  2,849       708     3,557        7,857        1,610
Secondary  1995             50      2,056     7,712    1,243     2,892     13,953    4,250    18,203      64   1,704   7,031    647        586 10,032     2,077    12,109       23,985       6,327
1996            61      2,508     8,304     1,453    3,130     15,456    4,475    19,931       81   1,887   6,940    673       745 10,326      1,890    12,216      25,782       6,365
1997            54      2,848     8,430     1,788    3,403     16,523    2,550    19,073       36   1,927   6,903    740       778 10,384      1,407    11,791      26,907       3,957
1998            32      3,013     8,730     2,243    3,375     17,393    1,923    19,316       30   2,141   6,902    896       881 10,850      1,017    11,867      28,243       2,940
Higher     1995              1        128      739       131      206      1,205      260     1,465        3      109     556     73        32    773       204      977         1,978        464
Secondary  1996             10       236       918       211      398       1,773     440    2,213         2      151     737    120       174  1,184       373     1,557        2,957         813
1997            10        331     1,227      331       514      2,413      508    2,921         6     285   1,183    236       172  1,882       343     2,225        4,295         851
1998            13        361     1,346      438       477      2,635      412    3,047         6     282   1,191    275       216  1,970       462     2,432        4,605         874
Total   1995         42,683      5,685    12,681     1,576    4,505     67,030    28,889   95,919   16,679   4,232   9,490    846       965 32,212    11,308   43,520        99,242      40,197
Teaching  1996         52,523      6,456    14,213    2,001     4,937     80,130   23,103  103,233    19,384   4,830   9,950    957     1,331 36,452     8,891    45,343      116,582      31,994
Staff   1997         56,666      8,224    16,511    2,529     5,251     89,181    9,844   99,025   20,575   5,415  10,954  1,162    1,341 39,447       5,156   44,603       128,628      15,000
1998         55,231      9,367    19,735    3,280    5,447     93,060    8,364  101,424   20,259   5,928  11,703  1,465       1,585 40,940     4,152    45,092      134,000      12,516



Page 2 of 2
Included in above data is following number of staff in CLOSED schools
Teaching 1995    204        37      46       4       25      316      284      600    109      53   115       5    13    295       204      499      611    488
staffin  1996    546       58      71       4       31      710      285     995    211       68   116       5    15    415       187      602    1,125    472
closed   1997    381       55     61        9       25      531      107     638    199       87   127       6    22    441       101      542      972    208
schools  1998    548       64    109       14       46      781      111      892    228       88   124    10    21    471          70      541    1,252    181
Year   Trained Male       Untrained Male       Year  Trained Female    Untrained Female
1995    69.88%            30.12%              1995   74.02%              25.98%
1996    77.62%            22.38%             1t96   80.39%               19.61%
1997    90.06%            9.94%                1997   88.44%             11.56%
1998    91.75%            8.25%                1998   90.79%             9.21%
Year   Trained Male       Untrained Male       Year  Tralned Female    Untrained Female
1995    67030             28889               1995  32212                11308
1996    80130             23103               1996   36452               8891
1997    89181             9844                 1997   39447              5156
1998    93060             8364                 1998   40940              4152
- 32 -



Page I of 2
Annex 10. Education Expenditure by Category - Sindh, Pakistan
(in Nominal Values)
(in million Rs.)
1989-go                  1990-91                  1991-92                   1992-93                   1993-94
Budget Actual Diff. (%l)  Budget  Actual  Diff. (a/) Budget Actual Diff. (a/) Budget  Actual  Duff. (6/6)  Budget  Actual Diff. ()
Current Expenditure
Education Sector            3498.0  2926.4  -16.3   3893.0   3666.6   -5.8   5490.3  5059.5   -7.8   5688.4  5402.2   -5.0   6807.0  6215.6   -8.6
School (I-XII)             2472.1  2213.6  -10.4   3050.6   2813.3   -7.7   3683.7  3447.0   -6.4   4504.1   4075.2   -9.5   5305.3  4607.6  -13.1
Primary (I-V)               1543.0  1400.0  -9.2   2072.2   1801.5  -13.0  2337.1  2315.6   -0.9   2935.0  2708.6   -7.7    3397.8  2891.8  -14.8
Salary                      1102.5  1078.3  -2.1    1284.6   1416.1   10.2   2281.1  2263.2   -0.7   2882.7  2659.2   -7.7   3341.5  3083.1   -7.7
Non-Salary                  184.4   333.7   81.4    822.3   578.0   -29.7   1202.6   84.4   -93.0   103.4    78.3    -24.3    103.8   77.4   -25.4
Development Expenditure
Education Sector            664.7   671.5    1.0    669.0   672.7    0.5    854.7   891.7    4.3    754.0   698.8    -7.3    1032.0  843.8   -18.2
School (I-XII)              543.9   566.5   4.1    535.6    541.7    1.1    636.8   68.3    9.6    739.0   558.5   -24.4   736.5   627.9   -14.7
w       Primary (I-V)                288.6   301.1    4.3    295.0   310.8    5.3    346.9   361.9    4.3    400.0   268.2   -32.9   386.0   290.1   -24.8
Total Expenditure
Education                  4162.7  3597.9  -13.5   4562.0   4339.3   -4.8   6345.0  5951.2   -6.2   6442.4  6101.0   -5.2   7839.0  7059.4    9.9
School                      3016.0  2780.1   -7.8   3586.2   3355.0   -6.4   4320.5  4145.3    4.0   5243.1  46334.4   -11.6   6041.8  5325.5   -13.3
Primary                     1831.6  1701.1   -7.1    2367.2   2112.3   -10.7  2684.0  2677.5   -0.2   3335.0  2976.8   -10.7   3783.8  3181.9  -15.9



Page 2 of 2
Annex 10. Education Expenditure by Category - Sindh, Pakistan
(in Nominal Values)
1994-95                   1995-96                   1996-97                   1997-98                    1998-99
Budget Actual Diff. (/e)  Budget  Actual  Diff. (%/.) Budget  Actual  Duff. (%) Budget  Actual  Diff. (%)  Budget  Actual  Diff. (l.)
Current Expenditure
Education Sector             8894.4   8106    -8.8    10202   8682.9   -14.8   11180   8829.3   -21    11579   10252.8   -11.4   14287   10289   -27.9
School (I-XII)              6665.7   6159    -7.5    7260    6810.5   -6.1   7746.3  7017.3   -9.4   9342.4   8213.6    -12           11634    8416    -27.6
Primary(I-V)                4605.5   3936   -14.5   4761.8   4391.5   -7.7   4944.8  4562.9   -7.7   5687.2   5492.6    -3.4    8434.4   5527    -34.4
Salary                       3684.7   3758      2     4487.4   4413.3   -1.6   4734.3  4640.1   -1.9   5570.5   5194.8    -6.7    8065.8   5744    -28.7
Non-Salary                   948.6   248.8   -73.8    318.8    295.2    -7.4    257.1   426.3    65.8    208.7    521.8       150     465.2   752.1    61.7
Development Expenditure
Education Sector             922.4    748    -18.9   1255.7   1342.4    6.9       703    448.2   -36.2    686       579.8    -15.4    890.1   642.6   -27.8
School (I-XII)                741    562.2   -24.1      940     421.2   -55.1   558.6   347.9   -37.7   475.5    399.7   -15.94    622.9   402.4   -35.3
4>.      Primary (I-V)                 468    316.7   -32.3    710.6    255.7    -64    469.2   269.2   -42.6   361.7    293.9    -18.7    448.4   289.7   -35.3
Total Expenditure
Education                   9816.8   8854    -9.8    11458    10025   -12.5   11883   9277.5  -21.9   12265   10832.6   -11.6    15177   10931   -27.9
School                      7406.7   6722    -9.2    8200    7231.7   -11.8   8304.9  7365.2   -11.3   9817.9   8613.3   -12.2    12256    8818          -28
Primary                      5073.5   4253   -16.1   5472.4   4647.2    -15    5414   4832.1   -10.7   6048.9   5786.5    -4.3    8882.8   5817    -34.5
Note: Salary and non-salary figures are revised; actuals are not available. Primary Educ-ation expenditures do not include donor funds
Non-salary includes school repair expenditure from 'Building & Structures' budget head
Source:
1. Annual Budgets, Government of Sindh
2. Development Budgets, Government of Sindh
3. Appropriation Accounts, Finance Department, Government of Sindh



Page I of 2
Annex 11. Education Expenditure by Category - Slndh, Pakistan
(in Real Values of 1989-90O
(in million Rs.)
1989-90               1990-91               1911-92                1S92-93                1903-94
Budget     Actual     Budget      Actual    Budget    Actu/    Budget    Actual           Budget      Actual
Current Expenditure
Education                     3498.0      2926.4     3442.3     3242.1     4410.5     4064.4      4205.0     3993.5     4458.6      4071.2
School                        2472.1     2213.6      2697.4     2487.6     2959.2     2769.0      3329.6     3012.5     3475.0      3018.0
Primary                       1643.0      1400.0     1832.3     1592.9     1877.4      1860.1     2169.6     2002.3     2225.5      1894.1
Salary                        1102.5      1078.3     1135.9     1252.1     1832.5      1818.1     2131.0     1965.8      2188.7     2019.4
Non-Salary                     184.4      333.7      628.2      441.6       966.7      67.4        76.5       57.9       68.0        50.7
)Development Expenditure
I       Education                      664.7      671.5       591.5      594.8      686.6      716.3       557.4      516.5      675.9       552.6
School                         543.9      566.5      473.6      478.9       511.5      560.9      546.3       412.8      482.4      411.2
Primary                        288.5      301.1      260.8      274.8       278.6      290.7      295.7       198.2      252.8       190.0
To1al Expenditure
Education                     4162.7      3597.9     4033.9     3837.0     5097.2     4780.8      4762.6     4510.2     5134.6      4623.9
School                        3016.0      2780.1     3171.1     2966.6     347D.8     3330.0      3876.0     3425.2     3957.4      3429.2
Primary                       1831.8      1701.1     2093.2     1887.8     2158.1     2150.9      2465.4     2200.6     2478.4      2084.1



Page 2 of 2
Annex 11. Education Expenditure by Category - Slndh, Pakistan
(in Real Values of 1989-90)
(in million Rs.)
1994-95              1995-96               1996-97               1997-98               1998-99
Budget    Actuaf    Budget    Actual    Budget    Actual    Budget    Actual    Budget    Actual
Current Expenditure
Education                    5103.2     4650.8     5417.8      4611       5238      4136.8     5031.5     4455.4     5835.6     4202.4
Schoot                       3824.5      3534      3855.4     3616.7     3629.4     3287.8    4059.8      3569.3      4752      3437.5
Primary                      2642.4     2258.3     2528.7     2332.1     2316.8     2137.8    2471A4    2386.8       3445       2257.5
Salary                       2114.2     2166.3     2383.7     2344.3     2218.3     2174.1     2420.7     2257.5     3294.5     2348.1
Non-Salary                    544.2      142.7      169.3      156.8      120.4     199.7       90.7      226.7       190       307.2
rDevelopment Expenditure
Education                     529.2      429.1      666.8      712.9     329.3       210       298.1      251.9      363.5      262.4
School                        425.1      322.5      499.2      223.6      261.7      163       206.6      173.6      254.4       164.3
Primary                       268.5      181.7      377.3      135.7     219.8       126.1     156.8      127.7      183.1      118.3
Total Expenditure
Education                    5632.7     5080.2     6084.8     5324.1     5567.7     4347       5329.8     4707.5     6199.3      4465
School                       4249.8     3856.7     4354.7     3840.5     3891.3     3451       4266.6     3743.1     5006.2     3601.9
Primary                      2911.1     2440.1     2906.2     2467.9     2536.7     2264.1     2628.6     2514.6     3628.2     2375.9



Annex 12. Non-salary Expenditure By Selected Category
(In nominal values)
Sindh, Pakistan
(in million Rs.)
Year         Fumiture         Educational        School
& Fixture         Material         Repairs
1989-90           19               NA               NA
1990-91          0.7               NA               NA
1991-92          7.2               NA               NA
1992-93          2.4               NA               46.3
1993-94           1                NA               38.7
1994-95           24              62.4              60.5
1995-96          110              65.3              25.2
1996-97          190              80.4             100.2
1997-98          228              96.5             149.9
1998-99          31.8             76.2             180.3
Source: Govemment of Sinclh, Education Department
Annex 13. Non-salary Expenditure By Selected Category
(in real values)
Sindh, Pakistan
(in million Rs.)
Year         Fumiture         Educational        School
& Fixture         Material         Repairs
1989-90           19               NA               NA
1990-91          0.5               NA               NA
1991-92          5.8               NA               NA
1992-93           1.8              NA               34.2
1993-94          0.7               NA               25.3
1994-95          13.8             35.8              34.7
1995-96          58.4             34.7              13.4
1996-97           89              37.7              47
1997-98          99.1             41.9              65.1
1998-99          12.9             31.1              73.7
Conversion into values of 1989
- 37 -






TURKh1ENISTAN .   /     .                       68'                                                               0
36-      /UZBEKISTAN  TAJIKISTAN'tr. -                                                        PAKISTAN
.,                        . '                                          SIND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN    .
_ IOAMABAD
32-                                          PROJECT DISTRICTS                          SELECTED ROADS
0   TOWNS AND V LLAGES                        SELECTED RAILROADS
PAKISTAN >D                                                DISTRICT CAPITALS           .             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.  .  63  PROVINCE CAP[TAL.             - * *  ~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-28- 1                        2-2                                                                               . _._  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r.         )       tINDIA
-24-              ,<.e 1   5    24                                                          .~         aTo RajonpTj
To.Jh.fp.t    _
JACOBABAD    W                         ~           PUNJAB
BALOCHISTAN                                            Th,           Ko                      T Skot  . To8Sdiq.bod
28~-                                                                                                                                                    28-D"   i-
M.        UKKU       oAkil GHOTKI
LARKANA
Ka.                  KaIRP
/    ,s    Nasiro6od
i      Nthon S ho -K                          Thori Mi-ooll
(s     N    j  / ueaShah KHAIRPUR                    i
DADU          
NA ABSHAH                                                              I   NDIA
*.   Sehwn                D   i *ity Miles#                                                         INDIA
.   Kos, bg0-d N-----A--- ------ I-                                        i
DADU   Mo Chokor SANGGAR                                                        i
260                            I                        i %          dp    iho         SANGHAR                                                          26-
der.oroNr
/  IoKho        0 HYDERA   AD                  'Jo  ,oh      U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MERKOT 
MOhorrd         R          6*~ri              - 
2   4                                       Mo          G h IrAi              ~   Sor
.,kARACQ    .l s                                                                                      THAR PARKAR
I Karachi EastCh.
2 Karachi West
3 Karachi South             Miro                                         BADIN        ,
4 Karachi Central                                                                                  Dipl*
5 MaJir
THATTA
I~~~~r
- ' '   t   ~ ~~~~~~~~-I                                      '.       _,- ,  
24   n                            ,                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24
---   !e                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20   40   60   80   100Kiormeorr
<~~                             ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I .                                I    I



