Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8178-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SINDH PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (Fi91-95)
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Country Department I
Population and Human Resources Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution &-W may be used by recpients only In the performance of
,be      '   '  '  '    I                 I



CURRENCY EQUVALIENTS
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rps.)
US$1.00 - Rps 21.15 (October 89)
FISCALY
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB         Asian Development Bank
ADP         Annual Development Plan
AESPC       Additional Education Secretary for Planning and
Coordination
AIOU        Allama Iqbal Open University
AKU         Agha Khan University
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
DEEW        Director of Education Engineering Works
DEO         District Education Officer
EEC         Education Extension Center
GCET        Government College for Elementary Teachers
GNP         Gross National Product
GOP         Government of Pakistan
GOSindh     Government of Sindh
GPR         Gross Participation Rate
ICB         InternatPsnal Competitive Bidding
IDA         International DevelopmcnF Association
LC          Learning Coordinator
LM          Learning Modules
MOE         Ministry of Education
NIPA        National Institute of Public Administration
NORAD       Norwegian Agency for International Development
NWFP        Northwest Frontier Province
ODA         Overseas Development Administration
PCR         Project Completion Report
PEP1        First Primary Education Project
PEP2        Second Primary Education Project
PEDP        The Primary Education Development Program
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PTC         Primary Teacher Certificate
PWP         People's Work Program
Rps         Rupees
SOE         Statement of Expenses
SPE         Supervisor of Primary Education
TA          Technical Assistance
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
BIUD  PfINKRY IDUCXTION DZWPNT PNODg=   (IO91-95)
8Th?PPIPfhISAL RIPORT
Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE  SIMARY.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
CHAPTER   I                                                            *................ ........  1
INTRODUCTION      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Overview of Primary Education in Pakistan   .        . . . . . .   1
Primary Education in Sindh  ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   1
THE FINANCING OF PRIMARY EDUCATION  ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   3
Overview of Pakistan  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    3
The Province of Sindh ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   4
IDA'S ROLE, LESSONS LEARNED, AND SECTOR STRATEGY .  . . . . . . . .   6
IDA'S Role .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Lessons Learned .....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   8
Sector Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
OTHER EXTERNAL FINANCING OF PRIMARY EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN ... .     .   8
CHAPTER II  .1.0....  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .   .   lo
THE PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PEDP)  . . . . . . . . .  10
Program Objectives  .1.0....  ..  .  ..  .   .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..   .   lo
Program Priorities  .......  .  .  ..  .  ..  .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .   .   11
IMPROVE PARTICIPATION OF CHILDREN IN PRIMARY EDUCATION  . . . . . .  11
Access, Facilities and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Incentives to Improve Enrollment and Retention  ... .   .  .    .  14
=.-10VE THE DELIVERY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION . . . . . . i . . . . . .  17
Recruitment, Deployment and Retention of Female Teachers  . .  17
Teacher Training and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Planning, Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . .  21
MPROVE STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
Quality, Production and Distribution of Learning Modules  . .  24
Textbooks and Supplementary Materials . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
CHAPTER III .....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   29
PROGRAM COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION. . . . .  29
Program Costs   ..29
Program Financing   ..32
Program Implementation and Disbursements   .     .34
Procurement Arrangements   ..38
CHAPTER IV  ...............................   42
BENEFITS AND RISKS  ....  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  42
Benefits  .....  .     .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   42
Risks ........................... .  42
CHAPTER  V   .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .    .  .   .  .    .    i    .   .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .  .    .  43
CONDITIONALITIES AND RECOMMENDATION ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  43
Agreements Reached at Negotiations .  . ... . . . . . . . . .  43
Condition of Board Presentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
Recommendation.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annex 1, Table 1 : Fvolution of Enrollment at Lovels in Pakistan
Between 1975-76 and 1988-89. . . . . . . . . . .  46
Table 2 : Evolution of Primary Schooling Enrollment in Sindh
Between 1981-82 and 1986-87. . . . . . . . . . . .  47
Table 3 : Evolution of Primary Schooling Enrollment in Sindh
Between 1981-82 and 1986-87. . . . . . . . . . . .  48
Table 4 : Gross Transition Rates Between Grades and
Between Primary and Secondary Levels in Sindh. . .  49
Table 5 : Projected Population Growth Rate by Milieu in Sindh    53
Table 6 : Effect of Population Growth on Participation in
Primary Education by Milieu and By Sex to
the Horizon 1995 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  54
Annex 2, Table 1: Evolution of Public Expenditure on Education by Level
and Type Between 1975 and 1987 . . . . .           55
Table 2:  Evolution of Public Expenditures in Sindh By Level of
Education and Type of Expenditure Between 1983
and 1989 ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   57
Annex 3, Matrix : Sindh Primary Education Development Program. . . . . .  60
Annex 4, Table 1:  Evolution of Primary Schooling Enrollment Between
1987-88 and 1995-96. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  66
Table 2: Annual Teacher Requirements and Incremental
Recurrent Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
Annex 5         : Technical Assistance Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
Annex 6         : A Pilot School Nutrition Program . . . . . . . . . . .  71
Annex 7         : Review of the Role of Supervisors/Learning
Coordinators..  .  .....  77
Annex 8         : Planning, Management and Implementation. . . . . . . .  79
Annex 9         : Upgrading the Operations of the Sindh Textbook Board . 100
Annex 10        : Evaluation of Free Textbook Distribution to Rural
Girls, Upgraded Production Specification/Subsidy
Scheme, and Supplementary Readers Scheme. . . . .  106
Annex 11       : Semi-annual Information to be Supplied by
GOSindh to IDA. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  108
Annex 12       : Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  109
Annex 13        : Documents for Project File. . . . . . . . . .1 . . . .   11
Map             : IBRD. No. 22036
The Program was appraised by Julian Schweitzer (Mission Leader), Sverrir
Sigurdsson (Implementation Specialist) and Bashir Parvez (Education Advisor,
Resident Mission Pakistan). In addition, Michael Wilson (Education
Specialist), Daniel Viens (Education Planner), Anthony Read (Consultant,
Textbooks Specialist), Halvard Kuloey (Consultant, Nutrition Specialist), and
Garth Glentworth (Consultant, Public Administration Specialist) contributed
substantively during preparation of the PEDP.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SINDH PRInARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGAM (F!91-95)
,EwcuTns OwnZR
Borrower:      Government of Pakistan
AMM:         SDR 85.2 million (US$112.5 million equivalent)
Description:      The objectives of the Sindh Primary Education Development
Program are to: a) iDr.rease Rarticipation in schooling in
rural and urban slum areas, with emphasis on girls; b)
enhance deliveyy of primary education; and c) increase
student learning and achievement. In summary:
Particination would be increased by: a) improving access,
facilities and maintenance. Classrooms would be constructed
in rural and disadvantaged urban areas. Sanitation, water
supply and boundary walls would be provided for girls' and
mixed schools. Bldgets would be increased to improve school
maintenance and construction implementation capacity would
be strengthened; and b) providing incentives to improve
enrollment and retention of children in school. The primary
school year would be changed to start after the hot season.
A pilot school nutrition program would be introduced as an
incentive for parents to enrol children in school, to
improve children's health status and hence to enhance
student learning. Scholarships would be provided to rural
girls who complete grade 5 to continue through secondary
education. On an experimental basis and to be introduced
province wide after evaluation, promotion between grades 1-3
would be automatic except in exceptional cases, and school
uniforms would be abolished in rural areas.
Delivey would be improved by: a) introducing measures to
enhance the recruitment, motivation and retention of
teachers. These include localizing primary teacher
recruitment; increasing the age limits for female
entry/reentry into primary teaching; lowering the entrance
qualifications for female teachers where shortages persist;
giving preference to qualified primary teachers for
promotion; and expanding recognition and reward for
outstanding primary school teachers; b) improving the
supply, training and supervision of teachers. The output of
new teachers would be increased, and qualified primary
teachers would be allowed to compete for teacher training
positions. In-service training programs and supervision of
primary teachers would be enhanced; and c) improving
planning, management and implementation of primary education
by strengthening and reorganizing the management of primary
education at the secretariat, divisional and district
levels.
Student achievement would be enhanced by: improving the
quality, durability, distribution and availability of



. ii -
teaching - learning materLals, textbooks and supplementary
reading materials, including the provision of free textbooks
to rural girls.
Benefits:    The PEDP would increase primary school enrollments
particularly for rural girls, by improving access. and
providing incentives for participation in school; imrove
learning by enhancing the quality of instruction, and the
availability and standard of educational materials; improve     
efficiency through measures to increase retention and reduce
repetition and drop-out; and improve delivery of primary
education through better management and administration.
Aggregate enrollments are expected to increase by 241
between 1990-91 and 1995-96. Rural female enrollment would
more than double, enabling the participation rate to rise
from 141 to 231. By supporting a least cost investment
approach and efficient planning, the PEDP would maximize the
benefits to be gained from primary educatior. expenditures at
a time of severe resource constraints.
Risks:    The major risk is that cutbacks in government expenditures
on primary education would jeopardize the achievement of the
PEDP targets. The consequences of rapid population growth
are such that the PEDP represents the minimum investment
needed to allow for growth in the rural participation rate,
essential improvements in efficiency, and enhanced quality
of instruction to ensure that children leave primary
education literate and numerate. The government is firmly
committed to these objectives, and provided assurances at
negotiations that it would meet the necessary investment
targets. A subsidiary risk is that the government lacks the
implementation capacity to carry out the physical and
institutional objectives of the program. However, GOSind's
physical implementation capacity has improved during
implementation of previous IDA assisted projects, and would
be further strengthened in the proposed program. To minimize
institutional constraints, the organization and management
of primary education would be improved. In addition, the
PEDP would in the main consolidate and extend programs which
had been positively tested in previous operations, using and
strengthening existing line agencies.



- iLL -
ISLUAIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
SINDH PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  (FY91 i5)
Fstimated Gosts and FYanMeng Plan
Estimated Costs                     LJcal          £oraign          Total
--------      - US $ MILLION --
Estimated Cost l/
_..__________________
Improved Participation                114.9           17.4           132.4
Improved Delivery                       3.7            3.4             7.1
Enhanced Student Achievement            8.9           10.7            19.6
Total Base Costs                      127.5           31.5           159.1
Price Contingencies                    29.9            7.5            37.4
Total Costs                           157.4           39.0           196.4
Financing Plan:                      Local            Foreign               tal
- =-------------- US$ Million --------------
IDA                                   76.7                35.8           112.5
Government of Sindh                   75.1                 0.0            75.1
NORAD                                  5.3                 1.3             6.6
ODA                                    0.3                 1.9             2.2
157.4               39.0            196.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements               IDA Fiscal Year
=Y2        FY9     FY93    FY9     FY9     =Y6 F9  Y8 F9
Annual            7.0    11.0   16.0   16.0   20.0   20.0   12.0   8.0       2.5
Cumulative        7.0    18.0   34.0   50.0   70.0   90.0  102.0 110.0   112.5



Sindh PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVR LOPMENT PROGRAM (FY91-95
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I
A. INTRODUCTXIO
Overview of Primary Education in Pakistan
1.     Despite increased government attention to primary education during the
last decade, Pakistan's adult literacy rate (about 24X) and gross
participation rate (GPR) (about 501) remain amongst the lowest in the world;V.
Rural - urban and male - female imbalances are stark. Literacy rates range
from 51 for rural females, to 551 for urban males, and the GPR for primary
education from 14X for rural females, to 82X for urban males. With a
population growth of over 3X p.a., the primary education system needs to
expand rapidly if participation rates are to increase: the number of children
born in 1981 was almost double the number of first grade primary school places
in academic year (AY) 1986-87. The low educational level of much of the
population is a serious impediment to economic development. Efforts to
improve maternal and child health and reduce fertility will be severely
hampered without increased attention to female education.
2.     Two recent Bank reportsV have analyzed the shortcomings of primary
education in Pakiksan. Key recommendations are: a) the need to increase
financial support, and b) greater emphasis on the delivery and quality of
primary education in order to improve internal efficiency and student
achievement. Priority should be given to reducing drop-out and repetition
amongst those already in school as a means of improving participation in
primary education (the GPR would rise by 30X if drop-out could be eliminated).
Primary Education in Sindh
3.     The above education problems are equally acute in Sindh.  Because of
high population growth (para. 6), an increase in primary enrollment of 331
between AY 1981-82 and 86-87 raised the GPR only marginally from 461 to 521,
with subsequent growth stagnation (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2). Without
interventions, universal primary education would not be achieved for boys and
girls for at least 10 and 50 years respectively.
1/     The GPR is the proportion of the age cohort (5-9) in primary school,
uncorrected for under, of over - aged children, or children who repeat grades.
The GPR is considerably higher than the net participation rate, owing to the
presence of large numbers of under-age children in class one.
3      Pakistan Education Sector Strategy Review, Report No. 7110-PAK,
December 1988; Pakistan Third Primary Education Project, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 6492-PAK, Nay 1987.



- 2 -
4.     The low rural participation of girls in Sindh is a major problem.  Of
every 100 rural girls, only 17 enrol in grade 1, nine complete the five year
primary education cycle and fewer than 1X are still in school at age 14 (Annex
1, Table 3). The small number of rural girls in secondary education further
constrains any improvement prospects, because the stock of potential female
primary school teachers in rural areas is so low (para. 55).
5.     Drop-out rates are universally high in Sindh.  Of every 100 urban
children who enter grade 1, only 74 complete grade 5. Only 44X of first grade
entrants complete the five year primary education cycle in the prescribed
period (Annex 1, Table 4), and the majority of drop-outs occur in the first
three years of schooling - before literacy is attained. Repetition rates,
although unrecorded in the aggregate, are also observed to be high.
6.     Rapid population growth, with urban and rural age cohorts growing at
about 4.62 and 2.91 p.a. respectively, frustrates any efforts to increase
primary education participation. Merely to keep pace with Sindh's school age
population growth between 1986-87 and 1995-96, an estimated 794,000 additional
school places, amounting to 411 of total AY 1986-87 primary enrollments in the
province, would have to be provided (Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6).
7.     The rapid urban population increase is placing particular strain on the
primary education system, resulting in gross overcrowding and impossible
.Learning conditions in dilapidated, and unsafe buildings. Class sizes of over
100 are not uncommon in Karachi, Hyderabad and other towns, and are also
evvideat ', peai-utban areas elsewhere.  in addition, whole urban slum
settlements (Katchi Abadis) are virtually without primary schooling. The GPR
for urban boys and girls declined from a peak of 811 and 611 respectively in
AY 1984-85, to 761 and 561 in AY 1986-87. The decline is explained by rapid
rural - urban migration (the population of Karachi is growing by about 71
p.a.) and the low levels of public investment in urban primary schools during
the Sixth Plan period V.
8.     International research has demonstrated the critical impact of improved
school inputs on student achievement, particularly for students of lower
socio-economic status. Issues of primary education financing in Pakistan and
Sindh are discussed in Section B below. The equally critical issues of
participation, delivery, and student achievement in Sindh are addressed in the
context of the proposed Primary Education Development Program (PEDP) described
in Chapter II.
I/     Part of the decline may be offset by unrecorded increases in private
school enrollments. Private schooling appears to have grown rapidly in urban
areas in response to the poor supply of public schooling.



- 3-
B. THlE FINANCING Oit PROMAR! EOUCATION
Overview of Pakistan
9.      Starting from a low base, total public expenditures on education more
than tripled in real terms between FY76-89, with expenditures on primary
education rising by an average 91 p.a. (Annex 2, Table 1). Although the share
of actual education expenditures in GNP rose rapidly from 1.6X in FY83 to 2.4X
in FY88, it is far below the developing country average of 4.4X. Total
education expenditures as a share of total government expenditures rose from
6.21 in FY83 to 9.6X in FY88, compared to a developing country average of 171.
10.    Primary education's share of total education expenditures averaged a
low 341 between FY83-88, compared with 441 for all countries of South AsiaJ.
Despite increased emphasis in recent years, primary education investment
expenditures in Pakistan reached only about 50X of the Sixth Plan (FY83-88)
target. There are two major reasons:
(a)   Financial shortfalls.  The 1988 Education Sector Strategy Review
noted the need for the Government of Pakistan (GOP) to raise the
revenue base to permit increased expenditures on education
together with demand from other sectors. The Review concluded
that recurrent and development expenditures on primary education
woul.d need to continue to rise rapidly to improve participation,
quality and officiency, and Lo iake iLuL  u"ouat rapid p-vrulation
growth. At the same time, the government is facing increasing
fiscal difficulties with an FY89 fiscal deficit reaching 8.61 of
GDP. Within the FY89 Policy Framework Paper (PFP) agenda, GOP
intends to reduce this to below 5X by FY92 and has agreed with
the IMF and the Bank on means to increase revenues by July 1,
1990. Under the PFP, GOP also agreed to raise education
recurrent and development expenditures by at least 8X and 6X p.a.
respectively in real terms over FY89 levels; and
(b)   Critical Rlanning. implementation and management problems.  These
include a cumbersome planning and approval process for new
investments, poor management, and perhaps most problematic,
shortages of female teachers in rural areas, which prevents girls
primary schools from being opened. This is discussed further in
Chapters II and III.
11.    Various crash development programs have been introduced by the Federal
Government to speed education development. The Five-Point Program (1986-90)
included a large rural education program designed to increase enrollments of
f/     A different comparison shows Korea during the late '60s allocating over
82 of GNP to education. About 752 of central government education
expenditures were allocated to primary education.



- 4-
girls, and improve teacher deployment. The Peoples Works Program was started
in 1989 to support invastinents in education, health, water supply and rural
roads. Details of the Sindh portion of PWP are discussed in para 16.
12.    The Five Point Program euccessfully focussed attention on the plight of
rural children, but was less effective in increasing participation rates,
because efforts to increase rural enrollments tended to slow down investments
in other areas, particularly urban slums. Further, school location planning
and implementation was sometimes less than optimal. Its r.ocus on increased
coverage of out-of-school children, rather than on drop-out and learning
problems of enrolled children was also a major shortcoming. By contrast, the
PWP has focussed on providing shelter for already enrolled children.
13.    GOP Education Sector Strategy.  GOP's strategy for the education sector
during Thc_ Seventh Plan (FY88-93) reflects the dilemmas facing Pakistan's
education planners. With meager resources to spend on an ever-increasing
population, and the backlog of the Sixth Plan, it is difficult to balance the
need for a rapid quantitative increase against investments in education
quality. In the effort to improve rural primary education, other
disadvantaged groups, such as urban slum dwellers, are being neglected.
14.    For all of Pakistan, the Seventh Plan allocates Rps. 22.7 billion for
investment in education and training (7X of total allocations), an increase in
real terms of about 60X over Sixth Plan expenditures. The largest increase
(1811) is projected for primary education, which will receive 45X of
allocations.  Bv means of a large school              trogr2r  al.-ed at
ensuring that no child is further than 1.5 km from the nearest primary school,
the Plan targets a primary participation rate of 801 by 1992-93, an increase
of 30 percentage points over the Sixth Plan period.
The Province of Sindh
15.      Between FY84-87, primary education recurrent and development
expenditures in Sindh rose by about 751 and 3751 in real terms (Annex 2, Table
2). The reasons for the relatively large rise during the latter period
include: a) an important decision in 1986 establishing a minimum of two
teachers per school to ensure continuity and prevent school closure in the
event of absenteeism,] which raised recurrent unit costs of primary
education; b) in FY88, civil servants, including teachers received major pay
increases (a nominal 341 for a starting primary school teacher); c) sharply
rising investments towards the latter part of the Sixth Plan period to offset
major shortfalls in earlier yearsW (the Five-Point Program); and d) increases
in construction costs faster than general inflation.
The primary education student-teacher ratio is currently about 35:1.
FY83 primary education investments were only Rps. 62 million.



. 5 -
16.    The recurrent budget for primary education in Sindh continued to
increase by an average of about 10X p.a. in real terms in FY88 and 89,
reflecting the increased hiring of teachers as new schools came on stream.
However, the development budget declined in real terms by 19% during the same
period, as the government encountered increasing fiscal difficulties (para.
10.(a)). As a result of cutbacks in the FY89 Sindh development budget,
investment expenditures on primary education during the first year of the Plan
were only 71X of original projections. GOSindh has recognized that at this
level of investment, enrollment growth would not keep pace with population
growth (para. 17). The slackening of investment in Sindh has been offset by
the introduction of the Federally financed PWP (para 11), under which an
investment budget of about Rps. 256 million for primary education in Sindh was
allocated in FY90, raising total investment expenditures for primary education
in Sindh to Rps. 546 million. The PWP program gives priority to constructing
about 590 two-room buildings for shelterless schools. This coincides with the
investment criteria for the proposed PEDP (para. 33). Including PWP, primary
education investments in FY90 represent a 58% real increase over PY89.
17.    To keep pace with projected population growth during FY90-95, GOSindh
will need to invest about Rps. 400 million (US$ 19.0 million) p.a. in new
classrooms -- about equal in real terms to the average investment during the
past two years (Annex 2, Table 2).   The proposed PEDP investment program
(Tables 3.1 and 3.5) would permit a further rise in development expenditures
averaging about 10 2 p.a in real terms over the FY90 baseline V. This would
be the minimum investment level needed to assure real participation growth
rates in rural aLeas of Slytas, includirig so=m  acliroat1on ir. the condition of
primary schooling in urban areas (para. 7), urgently needed improvements to
existing facilities, and essential primary education quality improvements.
18.    Despite rapid increases in primary education recurrent expenditures
(para. 15), annual per student recurrent public expenditures on primary
education in Sindh are still very low, averaging about Rps. 360 (US$18)
between FY84 and 89 W. Of this amount, only a fraction (less than US$1 per
child per year) was spent on books, materials and consumablesV; the rest
being expended on salaries, allowances and overheads. Amongst innovations in
V      This compares with the average 131 p.a rise in development expenditures
over the period PY86-90.
I/     During this period, per capita recurrent expenditures rose in real
terms from a very low Rps. 304 (US$15), to Rps. 474 (US$23). However, salary
costs accounted for virtually all this increase.
2I     Recent Bank studies suggest that an expenditure of US$5 per child is
needed to establish minimum acceptable levels of quality.



Sindh to help contain costs has been the rapid expansion of mosque schools,
which now enroll about 12X of all primary school children in the provincesU.
19.    The costs of textbooks and school materials are in the main borne by
parents, but otherwise typical primary schools are devoid of any education
materials. The effect of this textbook policy on poor parents is
considerable: the total private costs (books, uniforms, transport) of having
four children simultaneously in school has been estimated to equal 201 of the
income of a poor family with annual earnings of about Rps. 10,000.
Consequently, a textbook is often shared among 3 or more children in rural
schools, and femaie school participants are likely to be most at risk.
20.    Primary teacher education has been neglected in the province. In
particular, recurrent expinditures on teacher training were lower in real
terms in FY89 than in FY84 (Annex 2, Table 2). Recurrent funds for primary
in-service teacher training provide for only one week of training p.a. for
about 11 of the province's primary school teachers. Consequently, most
teachers will spend their entire career without receiving any in-service
training. Yet, the introduction of an integrated curriculum in grades 1-3,
and new teaching-learning materials will place a premium on such training.
21.    International research has demonstrated that expenditures on books,
teaching materials and in-service teacher training have the highest payoff in
terms of improving student achievement. Conversely, the lack of such
expenditures in Sindh (as well as elsewhere in Pakistan) has almost certainly
contributed to the low achievement and high number of dropouts and repeaters
in primary schools. The proposed PEDP (Chapter II) would support efforts to
improve achievement and retain children already in school as part of the Sindh
Government's bid to increase participation in education.
C. IDA'S ROLE. LESSONS LEARNED. AND SECTOR STRATEGY
IDA'S Role.
22.    IDA has been the largest external source of finance to education in
Pakistan, supporting the development of the sector with eight credits since
1964. Credits during the last decade have supported two broad objectives:
meeting manpower needs, and improving primary education. Primary education
has been supported with four credits. The Third Education Project (Cr. 678-
PAK) of 1977 for US$15.0 million supported primary teacher training, as well
as university level agriculture programs and extension training. The project
was completed in June 1984, two years behind schedule. The PCR and PPAR
indicate that project objectives were only partially achieved. Credit 892-PAK
MY/    These are usually small community schools with a single teacher
providing the standard curriculum for grades 1-3 under the direction of the
Pesh Imam. Classes are often conducted in make-shift facilities provided by
the community. The mosque schools have provided a low-cost alternative to
early conventional schooling in small scattered communities.



- 7-
of 1979 for US$10.0 million supported the First Primary Education Project
(PEPl) in certain districts in all four provinces, and was completed on time
(1985). This was an experimental project with the objectives of increasing
access, reducing wastage and costs, and improving the quality of instruction.
The project assisted the central and provincial governments to provide
schools, improve teacher training, expand school supervision and improve
instructional materials. The PCR, issued in June, 1987, indicated that: a)
the quality of instruction improved because of increased supervision, on-the-
job training of teachers by Learning Coordinators (LCs), and the provision of
instructional materials; b) costs were reduced through the employment of
female assistant teachers in rural areas; and c) female access was improved
through the provision of boundary walls at girls schools. The PCR at the same
time pointed out that the overall school construction program was not
successful due mainly to the lack of supervision and clear lines of
communication between the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) and the
government departments which managed the civil works program. The PCR also
noted that the in-service teacher training program was too complex as designed
and therefore unsuccessfully implemented; the major reason being the lack of
an institutional base.
23.    The FY85 Second Primary Education Proiect (PEP2) (Cr. 1602-PAK) for SDR
53.0 million seeks to build zin the experiences gained under PEP1. The project
is limited to certain districts in the Sindh, NWFP, and Balochistan. It
continues to support the elements of the first primary education project which
were judged as successful (LCs, assistant teachers, and provision of teaching-
learning materials). New approaches were designed for civil works
construction (use of pre-fabrication) and in-service teacher training. Aside
from construction, project implementation has been reasonably successful,
although slower than projected at appraisal. There have been major delays in
the construction program, due to difficulties in contracting for
prefabrication, and the consequent need to revert to conventional
construction, first in Sindh and more recently in the other two provinces.
Intensive supervision since FY87 has resolved a number of bottlenecks in
implementation, although major problems still remain in NWFP and Balochistan.
The construction of 3,000 classrooms in Sindh under PEP2 commenced in
February, 1989, and is expected to be completed by July, 1990.
24.    The FY87 Third Primarv Education Project (Cr. 1821-PAK for SDR 113
million) is confined to the Punjab province, with some national aspects. The
project became effective in April 1988, and seeks to improve institutional
capacity to plan, manage, and implement a large primary education investment
program by strengthening key agencies involved in the delivery of primary
education, implementing policy reforms affecting the recruitment and training
of female teachers, and supporting innovations in the delivery of primary
education. The project supports a large rural school construction program.
Project start-up has again been slow, largely due to the institutional
complexities of the project, which includes a large number of federal and
provincial agencies.



- 8-
Lessons Learned
25.    A number of lessons have been learned during IDA's support for primary
education in Pakistan. Items taken into account in the preparation of the
PEDP in Sindh include: a) the desirability of single province operations in
order to streanline project implementation; b) establishing clear management
systems and lines of communication for primary education which integrate
government and externally financed project components into an appropriate
system of management and technical implementation; c) the extended time
required to introduce and establish innovations in the system; d) the need for
testing and evaluation of new 'software" such as teaching materials during
development and dissemination; e) adopting construction methods and standards
which are realistic and familiar to the local authorities and contractors; and
f) establishing a financing and implementation mechanism which: i) improves
disbursements; and ii) provides flexibility to take into account experience
during implementation, as well as unforeseen outcomes.
Sector Lending Strategy
26.    During the next few years, the main thrust of IDA's lending strategy
will be to assist the Government address the policy, institutional and fiscal
constraints to basic (primary and lower secondary) and secondary education
development. The proposed support for the PEDP continues the deepening
dialogue on primary education. Future operations would support the
development of basic and secondary education, with ,-articular emphasis on
increasing access and improving quality. Recent sector work has also
highlighted the need for systemic reforms in higher education and its
interface with scientific research to ensure the country's supply of high -
level personnel, and a future operation in this area may also be considered.
D. OTHER EXTERNAL FINANCING OF PRIMARY EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN
27.    External financing of primary education in Pakistan is likely to
increase in the coming years. UNICEF is supporting primary education through a
curriculum development project in selected districts throughout the country.
USAID is financing a 10 year primary education assistance program for about
US$280 million in Balochistan and NWFP starting in FY89. IDA and USAID have
collaborated closely in the design of complimentary programs in Balochistan
and NWFP (USAID) and the proposed operation in the Sindh, which build on the
experience gained in the First and Second Primary Education Projects. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) has recently approved an FY90 Rural Girls Primary
Education Project encompassing all four provinces. The US$75.0 million project
will be federally administered through a separate federal coordination unit,
which will direct provincial project implementation units with their own
technical staff. Estimated unit construction costs are significantly higher
than those estimated by USAID in NWFP and Balochistan, or IDA in the proposed
PEDP. The Sindh portion of the ADB project (US$16.5 million over the period
FY90-95) would construct and equip, and provide associated quality
improvements for 140 five-room community model schools for rural girls. The
European Economic Community and the Canadian International Development Agency



are cofinancing PEP3. Other bilateral donors have financed major studies on
primary education, and are offering increased financial assistance in this
previously neglected area. However, with a population growth rate of over 3X
p.a., with only 50X of the age cohort enrolled in primary school, and with
severe limits on internal resource mobilization, Pakistan will continue to
need major, external assistance to achieve real progress in primary education.



-10-
CHAPTE II
THE PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRtA (PEDP)
28.    To address the issues discussed in Chapter I, GOSindh has, with
assistance from IDA, ODA and NORAD, prepared a Primary Education Development
Program (FY91-95). The PEDP includes all projected GOSindh investments in
primary education during this period, plus external financing as summarized in
Tables 3.4 and 3.5.   Financing from other sources, supplementary to the PEDP,
includes the ADB Rural Girls rrimary Education-project (para. 27), and the
PWPWv (para. 11). The priorities and objectives of the PEDP, as well as
means, targets and government actions are summarized in a matrix in Annex 3,
and detailed below. Estimates of PEDP costs are provided in Chapter III.
Program Obiectives
29.    The objectives of the PEDP are:  a) to increase pgDaticiaptio-n in
schooling in rural and urban slum areas, with emphasis on girls; b) to enhance
delivery of primary education; and c) to increase student learning and
achievement.
30.    Participation would be increased by:  a) Improving access, facilities
and maintenance. Classrooms would be constructed in rural and disadvantaged
urban areas. Sanitation, water supply, and boundary walls would be provided
for girls and mixed schools. Budgets would be increased to improve
maintenance and the GOSindh Department of Education Engineering Works (DEEW)
would be strengthened to cater for the increased construction and maintenance
activity; and b) providing incentives to improve enrollment and retention of
children in school. The primary school year would be changed to start after
the hot season. Initially in three districts and to be implemented province
wide following evaluation. Promotion between grades 1-3 would be automatic
barring exceptional cases and school uniforms would be abolished in rural
areas. A pilot school nutrition program would be introduced as an incentive
to enrol children in school, to improve children's health status and hence to
enhance student learning. Scholarships would be provided to rural girls who
complete grade 5, to continue through secondary education.
31.    Delivery would be improved by:  a) introducing measures to enhance the
recruitment, motivation and retention of teachers. These include localizing
primary teacher recruitment; increasing the age limits for female entry/
reentry into teaching; lowering the entrance qualifications for female
teachers where shortages persist; giving promotion preference to qualified
primary teachers for; and expanding recognition and reward for outstanding
primary -hool teachers; b) improving the supply, training and supervision of
teachers. Teacher output would be increased, and qualified primary teachers
would be allowed to compete for teacher training positions. In-service
training programs would be enhanced, and the role of supervisors of primary
IV See also footnote 28



-11-
education reviewed. The mobility of supervisors would be increased; and c)
improving planning, management and Implementation of primary education by
strengthening and reorganizing primary education management at the
secretariat, divisional and district levels.
32.    Student achievement would be enhanced by: improving the quality,
durability, distribution and availability of teaching - learning materials,
textbooks and supplementary reading materials. The durability of textbooks
and teaching materials would be improved and unit production costs lowered.
Free textbooks would be provided to girls in rural areas, and supplementary
reading materials provided to most schools.
Program Priorities
33.     Because the needs greatly exceed available resources, the PEDP gives
equal priority to:
(a)   investments in a minimum school infrastructure in areas with
unmet infrastructure demand, as unambiguously evidenced by
children's enrollment in shelterless or physically substandard
schools, or other equally clear indication of unmet demand from
the local community; and
(b)   implementation of policies and measures, many with limited cost
implications, with a high potential for increasing the efficiency
of current investments by reducing drop-outsWv and increasing
learning.
34.    The PEDP would complement the Second Primary Education Project (PEP2),
which covers eight districts in Sindh. The PEDP would, on a province-wide
basis, consolidate and expand successful PEP2 components (e.g. teaching-
learning materials), expand the coverage of construction and rehabilitation,
and adapt and distribute the teaching-learning materials developed in PEP2.
A. IMPROVE PARTICIPATION OF CHILDREN IN PRINARY EDUCATION
35.          Efforts to improve participation of children in primary school
are constrained by lack of access, poor and overcrowded facilities, and a lack
of incentives to parents to send, and keep their children in school.
Al. Access. Facilities and Maintenance(Estimated Base Cost, US$128.6 million)
36.          Past underinvestment in physical facilities has left a very
inadequate primary education infrastructure in Sindh. The major investment
needs are for the construction of new classrooms, rehabilitation of sub-
standard schools (Table 2.1), and for maintenance.
WU     There is a 50X drop-out rate bet.geen grades 1 and 2 in rural areas.



-12-
37.          New Classrooms are needed for:
(a)   Shelterless Schools.  Of a total stock of 21,000 schools in
Sindh, about 4,810, enrolling nearly 600,000 children are without
buildings, or in structurally unsafe buildings. Teaching in these
so-called shelterless schools takes place in open spaces in
villages and towns. Even where buildings exist, schools are
often grossly over-crowded, with class sizes, particularly in
grades one and two, exceeding 100 children. Children spill out
into the courtyard or corridors. The PEDP would construct about
8,800 classrooms for shelterless schools (about 80X of the total
stock).
(b)   Increased access.  The PEDP would construct an estimated 8,000
additional classrooms in rural areas and the poorest urban areas
(Katchi Abadis) W. This would allow male and female rural GPRs
to rise from 71X and 141 respectively in FY90, to 771 and 23X in
FY95 (Annex 4, Table 1). However, urban public primary school
construction will not keep pace with overall urban primary school
population growth (Annex 1, Table 5). In the absence of
additional investment, this gap will have to be met by the
private sector, which in recent years has expanded rapidly in the
more prosperous urban areas.
38.     During negotiations, the government agreed to the following order of
priority and criteria for construction under the PEDP:-W
(a)   reconstruction of dangerous school buildings;
(b)   construction of classrooms for schools where no school building
exists, but where an unambiguous expression of demand exists as
evidenced by the enrollment of at least 50 children in existing
shelterless schools; and construction of an additional single
classroom to accommodate grades 4-5 girls in mosque schools
opened since 1982-83, where existing enrollments exceeds 50; and
(c)   construction of new schools where no school (including a
shelterless school) is available within a distance of 2.5 km. for
boys and 1.5 km. for girls, and the population of 5-9 year olds
in the catcbment area exceeds lGO.
iv    The communities are responsible for providing primary school sites in
rural areas free of charge.
MU     The mix of construction for the various types of schools would be
agreed annually between the government and IDA at the time of the proposed
annual review (para. 101.(b)).



-13-
(d)  A further criterion applies to all construction escept for mosque
schools: the availability of a suitable site with space for
future expansian to at least five classrooms.
39.    Rehabilitation oi Sub-Standard Schools.   Table 2.1 highlights the lack
of basic school infrastructure in Sindh. Boundary walls are important in
providing reassurance to parents that girls are belng properly protected
outside the home. In addition, boundary walls or fences provide protection
against encroachment by livestock. Other basic items, such as floor mats for
the students, and a storage cupboard (almlrah) to keep books and supplies are
also lacklng in most schools. Children sit or squat on bare floors in
overcrowded, poorly lit and ventllated rooms, which adds to the difficulty of
learning. The PEDP would provide: a) low cost sanitation and water supply
for about 2,100 girls and mixed primary schools; b) boundary walls for about
2,500 girls and mixed primary schools; and c) basic furniture (floor mats,
teacher desks and cupboards) for about 16,800 classrooms.
Table 2.1 Summary of Existing Primary School Deficiencies11
<- By Locale ->  <---- By Gender --->  Total
Item              ----   ---- ---    ----    ----    of
urban  Rural  Boys   Girls  Mixed  Schools
-- - - - -- - -   -   ---      ---   ----    ....    -  -    ....... ____ 
Shelterless Schools     450  4,360   3,800   1,010    -      4,810
No Boundary Wall      1,130  9,810   7,930     810   2,200  10,940
So Sanitation           880  9,880   7,770   1.020   1,970  10,760
No Water Supply         840  8,010   6,520     970   1,360   8,850
40.          Scheol Maintenance.  Prior to FY87, the small school maintenance
budget (Rps. 10.0 million) was used to prevent catastrophes, and the stock of
dilapidated buildings increased rapidly. During the past two years, annual
allocations and expenditures doubled to about Rps. 20.0 million per year. The
number of primary schools receiving rehabilitative maintenance11 quadrupled
during this period, reaching about 800 schools in 1987/88. In order to ensure
the sustainability of new investments, the PEDP would finance an increment to
the maintenance budget, which would permit: a) routine annual maintenance to
be carried out on demand (estimated at Rps. 5.0 million annually); and b)
rehabilitative maintenance of about 2,000 schools to be carried out each year
(Rps. 25.0 million annually). At full operation, the annual maintenance
iU     Because many schools have a combination of deficiencies, it is not
possible to aggregate the data.
11     Minor preventive maintenance is increasingly being carried out on
demand and consumes about 15X of the maintenance budget. A more regular
maintenance is expected to result in a substantive reduction in maintenance
unit costs.



-14-
budget for primary schools in Sindh would comprise at least Rps. 30.0 million,
or about 2X of FY89 recurrent expenditures on primary education.
41.          Manajgmeat of the Construction and Maintenance Program.  The PEDP
would finance investments according to the priorities and criteria described
in para. 38. The construction targets, together with targets for increased
participation as a result of construction of new schools and improved internal
efficiency are shown in Annex 4, Table 1.
42.          The Directorate of Education Engineering Works (DEEW) would
manage the construction and maintenance program. DEEW uses appropriate
supervision procedures to ensure a balance between construction quality, cost
and basic training of village based contractors. The Directorate's technical
skills are generally good, but to improve its drafting and design capabilities
(especially in matters of ventilation and sanitation designs), technical
assistance (TA) would be included to familiarize implementing staff with
current experience elsewhere (3 staff-months of specialist servicesWv and 3
staff-months of overseas study tours (Annex 5)).
43.          To permit the Directorate to undertake the added responsibilities
of increased construction and added maintenance coverage, its staffing would
be increased by adding two sections to the now existing five sections. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the Directorate's role
would be maintained; and that an expansion, in accordance with an appropriate
staffing plan, would be carried out by June 30, 1991.
A2. Incentives to Imorove Enrollment and Retention. (Estimated Base Cost,
US$3.8 million)
44.          In addition to poor access and facilities, low primary school
enrollment in Sindh is also caused by systemic deficiencies which increase the
opportunity cost to poor parents of sending their children to school, and thus
adversely affect participation in primary education. The PEDP would include a
number of measures and in..entives to increase demand.
45.          The School Calendar and Scbeduling.  The current academic year
extends from April to March. Enrollment in Class I must be completed by end
April. Academic work starts in May but is then suspended for vacation during
the hot months of June and July. The closure of schools barely a month after
the start of the academic year adversely affects the motivation of pupils and
results in pupil attrition. The mandatory requirement of completing the
enrollment of students in April also prevents latecomers from being enrolled.
A more appropriate school calendar, from August 1 - May 30, would take into
account the hot season, and provide for a continuous school year. During
negotiations, GOSindh confirmed its intent, in time for the beginning of AY
1990-91, to change the timing of the school calendar to August I-Nay 30.
iU     A job description has been prepared and is available in the PEDP files.



-15-
46.          Primary schools in Sindh, whether urban or rural, observe uniform
school hours from 08:00 to 14:00, and a uniform summer, winter and spring
vacation schedule. However, rural patterns of life place a heavy load of
daily family and farm chores on school age girls and boys, which are at their
peak during harvest. In addition, the scarcity of local female teachers
(para. 55), means that schools depend on urban teachers who must often commute
long distances from their home to school. As a result, classes often start
late in rural schools, and during crop harvesting, school attendance drops
substantially. District Education Officers (DEOs) therefore need flexibility
in determining school hours and vacation schedules to serve better the
interests of rural, schools and communities.
47.          Promotion between Grades.  There is no set policy in Sindh to
provide formal end-of-grade examinations, and practice varies between
districts and individual schools. Examinations are set by the schools, under
the supervision of the supervisor/learning coordinator (para. 63). Children
who fail the examination must often repeat the grade, although there is no
uniform provincial standard or policy regarding grade-wise promotion13. This
arbitrary use of examinations has a number of deficiencies: a) the
examinations are not standardized or pre-tested and therefore cannot be used
to test individual student achievement, or for cohort analysis; b) the lack of
standardization renders arbitrary the decision to pass, fail, or promote a
student; and c) international evidence demonstrates that repetition
demotivates students and parents, and increases the likelihood of a child
dropping out.
48.          Abolition of School Uniform Requirement.  School uniform is
compulsory in Sindh, although the rule is not always applied in poor areas.
School uniforms are the highest school expenditure item for parents, costing
over Rps. 200 per child, and may act as a disincentive to parents to send
their children (particularly the girls) to school.
49.          During negotiations the government agreed that it would, for a
period of two years, starting in the school year 1990-91, and in three
selected districts: a) experiment with flexilble school hours to suit local
conditions in a total of about 150 selected rural schools; b) abolish the
requirement for school uniforms for primary school children in rural areas;
and c) abolish the end of year examlnation for grades 1 and 2, provide
automatic promotion between grades 1 and 3, and develop and introduce
achievement testing as part of the curriculum to monitor individual and cohort
student achievement (para. 119.(d)). GOSindh further agreed that it would, by
June 30, 1992, complete and furnish to IDA a atudy evaluating the impact of
these measures enrollment, attendance and retention of students, and following
18i    Comprehensive data on grade-wise repetition in Sind are not available.
Sample data from two districts in AY1983-84 shows the repetition rate as high
as 221 in grade 1. There appears to be no correlation between repetition
rate, school locale (urban or rural), or gender.



-16-
an exchange of views vith IDA, it would proceed with the Introduction of the
above measures In all districts of Sindh by the beginning of AY 1992-93, if
and to the extent such an introduction is warranted on the basis of the Study
and the exchange of vievs with IDA.
50.          A Pilot School Nutrition Program. Malnutrition remains widespread
in Pakistant3. A recent survey of 1,600 children under five years of age in
Sindh revealed that 48X suffered from chronic malnutrition, 11 suffered from
acute malnutrition and only 361 were adequately fed. Amongst young children,
caloric deficiency is more serious than protein deficiency. Various child
feeding projects in Sindh during the last three years have improved
nutritional status, but have also demonstrated the complexity of nutritional
assistance programs, the importance of careful planning and implementation,
and the need to involve the local community.
51.          The PEDP would pilot a school feeding program in three districts
in rural Sindh, by providing local foods, training parents/village workers and
school and other local staff, and a rigorous 3-monthly monitoring of impact,
and evaluation.LJ The objectives would be to test whether a school nutrition
program can be used: a) as an incentive to increase enrollment, retention and
regular attendance; b) to improve the nutritional status of primary school
children and their younger siblings who often attend first grade; c) to
increase parental and community awareness of the importance of child nutrition
through local (school and union council level) community management of the
program; and d) to improve student achievement.
52.          The Department of Community Health Sciences of the Agha Khan
University (AKU) will complete detailed planning of the pilot program by
March, 1990. The program will emphasize the following principles: a)
wherever possible, local, nutritious foods, such as soaked gram, fish, raw
fruits and vegetables, would be used and b) the program would be managed
locally at the school or Union Council level, with assistance from the AKU or
other competent NGOs. By July 1990, a total of 75 schools comprising
approximately 10,000 children would be ready for inclusion in the pilot phase.
The program would be monitored quarterly at each school for changes in e.g.:
a) weight-for-height, b) skinfold thickness, c) health status, and d) school
attendance and retention. The program design would be flexible to allow for
mid-course corrections, based on experience in implementation. It would be
evaluated after two years of operation by GOSindh and IDA to determine success
in the following areas: local program management; food handling and
preparation; costs; impact on school attendance and retention; impact on
nutritional status, and on learning. Continued financing including any
expansion would depend on the outcome of the evaluation.
MYi    National Nutrition Survey 1985-87 Final Report, National Institute of
Health, Government of Pakistan, 1988.
M      A more detailed description of the program is provided in Annex 6e



*17-
53.          Secondary School Scholarshits for Rural Girls.  Very few rural
girls complete primary education, and only a handful continue through
secondary school (Annex 1, Table 3). Undoubtedly, the high opportunity cost
to parents is a factor. Given the crucial need to increase the numbers of
educated girls in rural areas, GOSindh has introduced a modest scholarship
program for rural girls who complete class 5 to assist their families to send
them to secondary school. The PEDP would finance an additional 1,500
scholarships p.a. of Rps. 100 per month for rural girls to attend middle and
secondary school. This would represent a 121 income supplement to a rural
family with an annual income of Rps. 10,000.
B. IMPROVE THE DELVERY OF PRIMRY E DUCATION
54.          The PEDP would address issues of recruitment, training,
deployment and supervision of primary school teachers. These include: a) the
difficulty in recruiting rural female teachers and their inadequate conditions
of service; b) the use of most teacher training college places for uncertified
serving teachers, rather than new entrants to teaching; c) the absence of a
systematic in-service training program; and d) the need to improve pedagogical
supervision of teachers. Pre-service training, which also needs upgrading to
make it more responsive to teaching conditions in the schools, would be
supported through planned operations by IDA, the ADB, ODA and other donors.
3l. Recruitment. DegloZe_nt and Retention of Female Teachers (Estimated Base,
Cost, US$0.2 million)
55.          Previous reportstJ have identified shortages ,f female teachers
in rural areas as one of the critical impediments to the development of rural
primary education in Pakistan. The lack of female teachers is a strong
disincentive to parents sending their children to school. Where female
teachers are available, co-educational primary education may be acceptable,
even in rural areas.
56.          The supply problem of rural female teachers is acute. Even with
new teacher training places available (paras. 60, 62), only about 1,000 new
female teachers, or about 45X of the annual need in AY 1991-92 (Annex 4, Table
2), will receive formal Primary Teacher Certificate (PTC) training in AY 1990-
91, and most of these will be urban residents. The total number of rural girls
in Sindh graduating from grade 10 (the minimum requirement for entry to the
PTC program) in 1987 was about 2,500. This small stock has to supply all
rural employment demand for educated girls, including the health service's
growing needs for female paramedical workers. Since many girls will not move
into the formal labor force, the pool of potential rural female teachers is
extremely small. This is the main reason why GOSindh has moved cautiously to
extend the network of women's teacher training colleges, especially to the
smaller towns.
£1     Reference 2, Ibid.



-18-
57.          Most women teachers reside in towns and are reluctant to serve in
rural areas because: a) living and working conditions may be poor, and travel
to the rural school arduous and expensive; b) the structure of allowances
favors teachers in the three main cities of Karachi, Ulyderabad and Sukkar; and
c) customs make it difficult for female teachers to serve in communities other
than their own. Some of these problems are insoluble in the near term.
However, certain rdministrative regulations and practices which work against
women's participation in teaching can be changed. These include: i) no entry
into the teaching service before 18 or after 25 (eliminating both the eighth
grade matriculate and mature entrants); ii) recruitment at the district level
(this works to the advantage of urban women but, once recruited, they are
often absent from rural posts because of travel and other difficulties); iii)
rigid re-entry regulations for mature women and; iv) poor career prospects.
Promotion to supervisory grades is biased in favor of secondary school
teachers - only 25X of such positions in Sindh are allocated to primary
teachers; and v) there are few incentives for good performance (such as
advanced increments or accelerated promotion).
58.          During implementation of PEPI, the Government successfully
experimented with the employment of rural female assistant teachers, under the
supervision of a trained teacher. These assistant teachers (typically eighth
grade graduates) lacked the minimum prescribed educational qualification
and/or teaching certificate.  Their motivation was high, attributable to the
unique opportunity for career advancement the post offered. This finding
reflects international evidence that formal training alone does not determine
effective teaching. GOSindh has therefore decided that whenever a qualified
local female teacher cannot be recruited, an unqualified matriculate or even
eighth grade graduate will be recruited and provided with in-service training.
In addition, if shortages persist, the government would recruit educated
retired persons for teaching. During negotiations, GOSindh informed IDA that
it had decided to introduce the following regulations, to improve recruitment,
deployment and motivation of rural female teachers; and to make primary
teaching a more attractive career:
(a)   Recruitment of primary teachers would be localized at
taluka/union council level. A policy would be implemented to post
teachers as near as possible to their home.
(b)   The permissible age range for entry to the primary teaching
profession would be amended to 16-45 years.
(c)   Where a girls school has been closed for more than eight weeks
for want of a qualified teacher, an unqualifled teacher
(matriculate or eighth grade) would be recruited as an assistant
teacher. Assistant teachers would be given opportunities to study
for secondary school completion in the AIOU distance program for
rural women and, if successful, would be given preference either
for formal teacher training, or the AIOU PTC program. If no
suitable candidate is available, a retiree would be contracted.



-19-
(d) Preference would be given to recruit or promote qualified prlmary
school teachers with IA/B4d degrees to supervisory positions.
59.          The PEDP would include about Rps. 5.1 million as prizes and
incentives to outstanding primary school teachers for developing new and
innovative low-cost teaching materials and measures to encourage parents to
send and retain girls at school.
B2. Teacher Training and Supervision (Estimated Base Cost, US$5.2 million)
60.          Teacher training and gertification. The Sindh Education
Department's Bureau of Curriculum and Fxtension Wing (the Bureau) is
responsible for primary and middle schoal teacher training, including in-
service training for Sindh's 45,000 primary teachers (16,500 female). Within
the province, the Bureau operates 19 Government Colleges for Elementary
Teachers (GCETs) (11 male; 6 female; 2 specialized) iith one year PTC
programs. Only about 20X of GCET faculty have had working experience in
primary education; others are former senior secondary school teachers with
little relevant expertise. The current 3,300 GCET places will increase to
3,850 in 1990 with the addition of one male and two female colleges. About
2,300 places (810 female) are used for primary teacher training, the balance
being for middle school teachers. The Allama Iqbal Open University (AIOU)
also offers a distance PTC program for serving teachers (about 1,700 graduates
p.a. in Sindh) for which the students pay fees. In-service training is
offered at two Bureau extension centers. It is poorly funded and provided
only about 200 staff-weeks of primary teacher in-service training in AY 1988-
89.
61.          About 601 of the PTC places are used to upgrade serving primary
teachers who are nominated by their District Education Officers. The teachers
receive full salary and are eligible on graduation for a salary increment and
pension status. This is an expensive and inefficient way to upgrade teachers,
because the curriculum is designed for new, rather than serving teachers, and
it severely limits the output of new, trained teachers (para. 56).
62.          To address the issues of inadequate output of new teachers and
recruitment of experienced faculty, GOSindh provided the following assurances
at negotiations:
(a) By the start of AT 1992, all GCET places would be assigned to new
entrants to the teaching profession; rind
(b) By December 31, 1991, GOSindh would amend the regulations to
allow those from the primary education stream with appropriate
qualifications and experience (e.g. supervisors of primary
education) to compete for all GCET faculty positions.
63.    In-gSErLie training.  PEPs 1 and 2 upgraded in-service training
through: a) the preparation of structured training materials (the Learning
Modules (LUs)); and b) improved teacher supervision by Learning Coordinators



-20-
(LCs). The latter function is carried out by Supervisors of Primary Education
(SPEs) ir districts not covered by PEP2. Each LC/SPE works at the smallest
administrative level (taluka), and supervises about 15 schools.
64.    The PCR for PEP1 noted the positive impact of teacher supervision on
teaching quality, student achievement and teacher absenteeism. Recent IM
evaluation has determined their in-service training potential. The LMs focus
on curriculum concepts and related pedagogical methods, providing an input to
lesson-planning. The LNs completed under PEP2 will need to be quickly
4isseminated beyond the schools where they were piloted (para. 77).   The
Government of Pakistan is gradually introducing the IM system throughout the
country.
65.    Despite the above progress, in-service training is limited in scope and
under-funded. Its improvement depends on: a) the design, development and
testing of an in-service training program in selected districts; b) completing
Sindh's share of the IMs and adapting LNs produced by the other provinces; c)
improving and standardizing IM tests of student performance; and d) training
supervisors and master teachers to use the -Is tor in-service training.
66.    Under the PEDP, the Bureau would reinforce its extension wing for in-
service training with two extension officers to develop, implement and monitor
two pilot in-service teacher training programs, in one urban and one rural
district of Sindh.  Two major training themes would be: the use of the LNs;
and classroom organization and management for multi-grade teaching. About
7,700 teachers (about 20X of all teachers in Sindh) would be trained during
the first two years of the PEDP through 8 four-week courses per year in 16
centers, with about 30 participants per course. A further two extension
officers would be added to the Bureau's staff when the program is replicated
in other districts. Training centers would be established in district schools
with adequate facilities. About 100 master trainers selected from the ranks
of SPEs, LCs, and GCET faculty would be trained at the Curriculum Wiutg to
provide the training programs. The program would be evaluated at the end of
the second year, and then replicated, with necessary modifications, in a
further nine districts during the third to sixth year of the program to reach
about 12,000 teacher p.a. Eighteen staff months of specialist services31
(Annex 5) would assist the Bureau: a) with the design and implementation of
the training programs; b) with evaluation of the pilot programs; and c) with
advice on classroom organization and management of multi-grade teaching.
About 16 short (one month) fellowships would also be provided to enable senior
staff in the Bureau and Education Department to study developments in teacher
training and primary education abroad. A steering group comprising the
IV     Job descriptions for the specialist services have been prepared and are
available in the PEDP files.



-21-
concerned District Education Officers (DEO), the Bureau and the AIOUWU would
provide general guidance. During negotiations, GOSindh provLded assurances
that it would constitute a steering group for in-service teacher trainLag, and
by 30 September, 1990, and annually thereafter, the Steering Group would
provide a report on the activities and expenditures of the pilot program for
IDA review.
67.          Teacher Supervision.  The PEDP would support a further review of
the work of supervisors to strengthen their role in areas such as: practlce
teaching for new teachers; organization and support of in-service training
(with special emphasis on identifying common classroom or curriculum-related
problems; and the monitoring of measures to improve the participation of rural
girls in primary education. Details of the review, for which about 12 staff-
months of expert services and 6 staff-months of overseas fellowship would be
provided, are given in Annex 7. To enable supervisors to visit schools
regularly, the PEDP would provide transport and associated running costs
(about 50 jeeps for women and 485 motorcycles for men) in districts not
covered by PEP2.  A similar arrangement under PEP2, works satisfactorily.
B3. Planning. Management and Implementation (Estimated Base Cost, US$1.8
million)
68.          The PEDP would have a major planning, coordination, and
implementation impact on six functional Directorates, on the offices of the
four Divisional Education Offices, and on the educational hierarchies in the
sixteen districts (A description of the current and planned organization of
primary education in the province, including job descriptions of key
management staff, is provided in Annex 8, Attachment 1). Two organizational
issues are critically impeding primary education development:
(a)   Program Plannine and Management.  Given the size and complexity
of the PEDP, planning, management and implementation capacity of
the Secretariat (responsible for shaping and implementing policy)
is inadequate. As a result, the many separate agencies, involved
in primary education can only be coordinated at the Education
Secretary level, who is overloaded with other responsibilities.
The need to plan and coordinate the inputs of growing numbers of
external donors in the education sector is particularly acute.
(b)   An Effective Management Focus for Primary Education.  At the
district level, the District Education Officer (DEO) is
responsible for all primary and secondary schooling. The DEO is
M/     A complementary NORAD assisted AIOU initiative will improve the
distance PTC program for uncertified teachers. A strengthened AIOU program
will provide additional and flexible teacher training at low cost. In
addition, the AIOU secondary school completion program provides opportunities
for improved participation of rural women in teaching.



-22-
assisted by a hierarchy of Additional (ADEO), Deputy (DDEO), Sub-
divisional (SDEO) Education Officers, SPEs and LCs, who are
divided between male and female streams of education. Above the
level of SDEO, these officials administer both primary and
secondary education. The district administrative hierarchy is
usually recruited from the ranks of secondary and college
education and has little expertise in primary education. There
has been a tendency to emphasize secondary over primary levels,
especially where larger schools combine primary and middle
grades, or where new middle and high schools are created.
69.    An attempt to address these problems was made in PEPs 1 and 2 with the
creation of a provincial Project Implementation Unit (PIU). This has suffered
from the major defect that it created a parallel implementation structure for
curriculum, teacher training etc. which has proved difficult to integrate with
existing provincial institutions. The revised provincial management structure
described below incorporates the PIU in a manner which would increase its
effectiveness in implementing PEP2 and other tasks given it by GOSindh. The
objectives of the new management structure are to: (a) strengthen the
Education Secretariat's capacity for planning and coordination with special
emphasis on primary education; (b) create an effective management and planning
focus for primary education at the divisional and district levels; (c)
strengthen program planning and monitoring capacity, including the education
data bdase; and (d) upgrade the management skills of administrators and
professionals.
70.          The Education Secretariat's capacity for planning and
coordination would be improved by reorganizing and strengthening of the
Planning and Coordination Wing (PCW) (Annex 8). The PCW would have three
major functions: a) education planning, including the design of new programs;
b) coordinating the various line agencies involved in implementation; and c)
monitoring and evaluation of implementation. The PCW would be headed by an
Additional Education Secretary for Planning and Coordination (AESPC) who would
report directly to the Secretary, Education (an incumbent was appointed in
October 1989). Two further positions: Deputy Secretary (Coordination) and
Section Officer (Disbursement), would be created to improve the coordination
between provincial and external agencies and the disbursement of funds.
Other, existing posts would be redesignated to improve the planning function.
71.          The revised PCW structure with key job descriptions is outlined
in Annex 8. Incremental staff positions at the Secretariat level would be
financed by the IDA Credit during PEDP implementation.
72.          An Effective Management Focus for Primary Education would be
achieved by:
(a)   reorganization of the administrative staff at the divisional and
district level as described in Annex 8. The major changes would
be: i) the provision of an Additional Director for Primary
Education at the divisional level; and ii) at the district level,



-23-
redesignation of duties and delegation of powers to the ADEOs to
give them the main responsibility for primary education. The
proposed changes would not require the creation of new
administrative staff positions at the district level; sad
(b)   improved supervision of primary schools:  the supervisory roles
of the SPEs and LCs would be clarified to avoid duplication
(para. 67).
73.     Revisions to the administrative structure at the Secretariat,
Divisional and District levels are shown schematically in Annex 8, page 3.
During negotiations, GOSindh provided assurances that it would by December 31,
1990: a) complete the reorganization at the secretariat, divisional and
district levels; b) create all resulting staff positions as regular positions,
irrespective of initial sources of finance; and c) adequately staff the Pcy
and the divisional and district level positions in accordance with agreed job
descriptions and substantially as outlined above.
74.          Strengthening program planning and monitorlng capacity. including
the education database would be achieved through:
(a)   improved collection and analysis of educational statistics; and
(b)   strengthened investment programming and monitoring.
A satisfactory reporting system for the collection of primary education
data has been developed and a proforma for monitoring investments has been
prepared (Annex 11). Improved collection and analysis of this data would
serve as the basis for enhanced planning and monitoring capability in the
office of the AESPC. A semi-annual reporting system would provide senior
managers with information on program expenditures and implementation
(para. 10l.(b) and Annex 11). The proposed Credit would finance training costs
and decision support materials for the above activities, as described in Annex
8 and summarized in the TA schedule in Annex 5.
75.    Upgrading Management Skills of Education Administrators.  PEDP includes
a plan to train about 100 senior education sector staff annually in management
techniques to better perform their tasks. The target group includes senior
administrators in the Education Department, and officials at the divisional,
district and sub-district level. The training programs would be organized by
the Education Extension Center (EEC) in Karachi, suitably strengthened with
the assistance of the Karachi branch of the National Institute of Public
Administration (NIPA). NIPA would act as consultants and executing agency for
the initial training, and would evaluate the initial two-year phase of the
program. NIPA would work closely with the EEC, which would gradually take
over execution of the program as its skills develop. About 18 staff-months of
expert services (Annexes 5 and 8) would be provided during the first 2 years
of implementation to assist NIPA in needs analysis, design, implementation and
evaluation of the first round of training programs. About 54 staff-months of



-24-
fellowships would also be provided for Education Department staff to study
organization and management of primary education in other countries.
C.  IHMP1V  STUDENT ACBIE!
76.    The negative effect of poor quality, or lack of teaching materials,
textbooks and supplementary readers on student achievement is well recognized
in Sindh. By consolidating and expanding initiatives in previous IDA
supported operations, the PEDP would address three issues in this area: a)
quality, production and dissemination problems with LMs developed under PEP2;
b) the low quality and durability of textbooks, and their cost to parents; and
c) the shortage of supplementary reading materials in schools.
Cl.    Gualitv. Production and Distribution of Learnina Nodules (Estimated
Base Cost, US$1.8 million)
77.    Credit 1602-PAK for PEP2 is financing a first phase of preparation,
testing, publishing and printing of 280 LNs (para. 63) for grades 1-5 in the
four main subject areas: language, mathematics, science and social science.
Manuscripts have been developed in all the three participating provinces. No
one province is concentrating either on a subject area or on a grade level,
and there is insufficient coordination of the work-program. Nevertheless
initial pedagogic evaluations of the 80 completed LMs are positive in
improving the subject knowledge of teachers, presentational skills in the
classrooms, measurement of pupil achievement and general teacher motivation.
However, because the PIU for PEP2 is not staffed or equipped to publish and
distribute large quantities of materials, the exercise in Sindh will not be
completed in the eight PEP2 project districts until mid-1990. The production
standards of existing, completed modules in Sindh are poor and their life
expectancy would be short.  Production costs are high because of inefficient
procurement procedures. To distribute the materials to all primary schools in
the province, the PEDP would therefore improve editing, printing, publishing
and distribution, including enhanced production specifications and controls,
to ensure: a) collation of the Lfs into 11 volumes representing the major
curriculum focus of the LMs in grades 1-5l'; b) improved durability; c)
efficient distribution; and d) lowering of unit production costs by about 50X.
Tender procedures and documents have been prepared. Contracts for printing,
publishing and distribution would be awarded to commercial publishers through
competitive bidding. Further details of the production and distribution plan
are provided in a working paper in the PEDP files.
78.     Achievement Tests.  Tests of student achievement as part of the
teaching process were developed in PEP1 and used together with LM materials in
PEP2. Under the PEDP, the Curriculum Bureau would be supported in further
development of the tests, field testing, printing of test items and
dissemination. Teachers would be trained to use the tests during the in-
14U    Math, local language and English in grades 1-3; math, science, local
language and social science in grades 4 and 5.



-25-
service training programs (para. 66). To update Bureau staff, six staff-
months of fellowship training would be provided to review developments in
evaluation and testing, and education measurement (Annox 5).
C2.    Textbooks and Supplementarv Materials. (Estimated Base Cost, US$ 17.8
million)
79.    The Sindh Textbook Board (STBB), produces and publishes textbooks and
supplementary materials for primary, intermediate and secondary education, as
well as teacher handbooks and guides. The STBB operates as a commercial
undertaking responsible to GOSindh. It receives no subsidies and its profits
are ploughed back into future operations to maintain book prices at the lowest
possible level. The professional staff have few relevant qualifications and
are in need of professional upgrading. The STBB selects authors to write the
textbooks according to GOP guidelines. Authorship skills also need
improvement. In 1988, the STBB and its sub-contractors printed approximately
310 titles totalling 21.5 million books, of which approximately 6 million were
produced in the STBB's own print shop. Annual sales income from its own
publications, royalties and payments from publications sub-conttacted to the
commercial sector was estimated at Rps. 46.5 million. A fuller description of
the operations of the STBB is provided in Annex 9.
80.    There have been no detailed studies on the availability and ownership
of textbooks in Sindh. However, low physical book production standards cause
books to disintegrate quickly, and there is evidence of students replacing
textbooks three or four times per year. For poor families, this adds to the
cost of primary education, and many children are without textbooks for large
parts of the school year. Despite the lack of detailed research data, which
would be remedied by a study in the PEDP (Annex 10), it is possible to
identify a number of key issues which can be addressed at this stage to
improve the quality and durability of textbooks.
81.          Textbook Content.  Textbook content in Sindh generally suffers
from: a) poor language grading, from one level to another and even between
different subject books at the same level; b) lack of exercise material,
particularly in math, science and Urdu; c) inappropriate pedagogical level; d)
dull layout and design; e) poor co-ordination between subject textbooks at
different levels in the same series; f) inappropriate illustrations; g)
factual and grammatical text errors (indicative of poor copy editing); h) a
significant gap between the pedagogic requirements of the curriculum and the
teachers' abilities to perform; and g) an urban middle class and gender bias.
82.          These problems can be attributed to: a) inadequate editorial and
artwork supervision; b) inexperienced writing teams; c) absence of pilot
testing of new manuscripts - particularly for rural situations; and d) poor
publishing skills. The STBB lacks trained staff in publishing management,
editing, production or design. There have been few in-house training courses.
Similarly, the STBB's commercial sub-contractors lack education publishing
expertise; and e) poor communications between the STBB and key agencies such



-26-
as the Curriculum Bureau and the Directorates of Education; ani example of
which is the lack of pilot testing of new materials.
83.          To address these issues, the PEDP would: a) support consultants
and staff training (Annex 9 and TA schedule in Annex 5), to upgrade the skills
of STBB staff and local commercial publishers in writing, editing, design,
illustration, production, publishing and financial management; and b)
encourage print technology development. GOSindh would provide notice of
enhanced production specification requirements two years in advance to all
printers in the province who are currently, or who wish to be involved in
printing books for the STBB. Additional equipment would also be provided to
the STBB to upgrade cover printing and binding operations, and to install
computer typesetting facilities. The PEDP would support STBB pilot testing of
all new manuscripts (about 30 per year), in collaboration with the Curriculum
Bureau and the Divisional Directorates of Schools. GOSindh agreed at
negotiations that all new primary education textbook manuscripts developed
during the PEDP would be pilot tested prior to publication.
84.          Durability.  The basic STBB primary school textbook ia printed on
locally manufactured paper of poor quality. The poor quality text and cover
paper and binding makes short book life inevitable in the hands of young
children in difficult environments. The major reason for the low production
quality has been the legitimate and achieved goal of the STBB to provide
textbooks at very low cost to parents: a standard set of textbooks for a
Grade 1 student currently retails at Rps. 14.40 (about $0.69). This price
includes all raw materials, manufacturing, first costs, royalties,
distribution cost and publishers overheads and profit.
85.          Under the PEDP, physical production specifications would be
upgraded to keep textbooks in reasonable condition for at least a year (Annex
9). As a result, production costs would increase by about 40% (e.g. 28X of
the total cost would be attributable to tne use of superior materials). To
hold prices at 1989 levels in real terms, the PEDP would subsidize the cost
increase by payments to STBB on receipt of bills and invoices demonstrating
the use of the improved production specifications. Almost all upgrading costs
are raw material costs for text and cover paper. STBB buys in bulk and
supplies to sub-contracted printers. A subsidy to STBB would therefore
automatically include these printers. Existing production and distribution
systems would remain intact and parents would still contribute to the costs of
the books - an important factor taking into account the estimated recurrent
cost of free textbook distribution (about Rps. 100 million p.a.). To influence
future textbook policy, the PEDP would include an evaluation of subsidized,
upgraded books and the pilot, free distribution to rural girls (Annex 10).
86.          Free Textbooks for Rural Girls.  To provide an incentive for
increased enrollments and reduced drop-outs, a program of free textbook



-27-
distribution to all rural girls in grades 1-5 would be introducedW. The
number of children involved is relatively small (178,000 in AY 1990-91, rising
to 333,000 in AY 1995-96). Books would be purchased by the STBB, delivered
direct to the district education offices, and supplied via existing district
distribution channels. About 12 staff-months of TA (Annex 5) vould be
provided to assist the Curriculum Bureau in an evaluation of the program over
the PEDP period. The evaluation would provide information on the impact of
free textbooks on enrollment and drop-out and academic achievement, and assist
in the formation of textbook policy in the post-PEDP period (Annex 10).
87.          Sunlementary Reading Materials.  Few primary schools in Pakistan
have any books to supplement the prescribed textbooks. International research
has demonstrated that functional literacy and numeracy is hard to achieve in
the absence of stimulating non-textbook materials. Previous attempts to
provide schools with supplementary reading materials, including efforts by the
National Book Foundation, have foundered because of budgetary difficulties. A
pilot experiment in PEP1 was not continued for this reason. However, GOSindh
recognizes the crucial role of supplementary reading materials in achieving
literacy and numeracy, and attaches a high priority to their provision in
primary schools, as well as the training of teachers on how to use these
materials in association with other classroom activities.
88.          The PEDP would finance a supplementary reading allocation of Rps.
1,000 p.a. to schools with an enrollment less than 500, and Rps. 2,000 p.a. to
schools with an enrollment greater than 500. This would be sufficient to
purchase a collection of about 600 titles per school during the PEDP period.
The supplementary materials program would be managed by the Curriculum Bureau.
The book procurement budget would be held centrally at the Bureau. This would
enable titles to be selected/developed in close conformity to curriculum
requirements and production specifications and would achieve the cost benefits
of bulk purchase. Selected titles would be bought from commercial publishers,
adapted and translated by commercial publishers from overseas publishers or
would be developed locally. This mechanism would remove the burden of
publishing, production and distribution from the Bureau, (which lacks the
capacity to handle these activities) and would allow the Bureau to focus on
selection, management, implementation and evaluation. Storage would be
provided to maintain the collections in schools. SPEs and LCs would supervise
usage of the collections in close harmony with the curriculum, the LMs and the
textbooks. The selection, purchase, distribution, storage and intended usage
of the books is described in a working paper available in the PEDP files.
During the period 1990-92 inclusive, the scheme would be piloted in three
districts. It would be evaluated during 1992 as part of the wider book policy
study described in Annex 10, and expanded province-wide, starting in 1993,
taking into account the results of the evaluation. The scheme would involve
M/     Ideally, other needy groups, such as poor rural boys, should be
included. However, because of financial constraints, the difficulty of group
definition and targeting, and problems of textbook distribution, only rural
girls would be included in the PEDP.



-28-
the purchase and distribution of about 2 million books p.a. when fully on
stream in 1993. In full operation, the cost would be equivalent to about 2.7X
of GOSindch's FY89 recurrent budget for primary education.



-29-
CHAPTER III
ROGRAM COST8. PIIANGING DISE1JRS811TS MA  IMIAnKTIOR.
A. Ugkasz 8t8&
89.                Summary of the  Costs  of the  Investment Program.   Table  3.1
summarizes the total estimated financial requirements for the PEDP for the
period (FY91-FY95) by investment objective. A summary of the costs of the
above program by category of expenditure is given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.1:  s!Atn      0? T! MPDP PROO     COSTS BY !V       T OIECT!W 
Rupees million -           - U8$ Million -----                  t otal
I Foreign Base
Local  Foreisn   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   lRchans    Costs
A. Improved Participation in Primary Education.
1. Access, Facilities & Mlant.
Shelterless and New Schools        2,065.8    308.7  2,374.5       98.4     14.7      113.1         13       71
Upgrade & Maintain Facilities        282.2     42.9    325.1       13.4      2.0       15.5         13       10
Sub-Tot, Access, Pacilities & aint. 2.348.0    351.6  2,699.6    111.8          16.7      128.0         13       81
2. Incentives for Enrolmnt a Retention
Nutrition Program                     38.1      14.5     72.6       2.8      0.7        3.5        20         2
Scholarship Program for Girls          7.5      0.1       7.6       0.4      0.0        0.4          1        0
Sub-Total, Incentives for Enr. & Rat    65.6        14.6     80.1       3.1      0.7        3.8         18        2
Sub-Total, Participation in Primaty Ed  2,413.6    366.1  2,779.7    114.9         17.4      132.4         13       83
B. Improved Delivery of Primary Educ.
1. Teacher Recruit. Deploy. & ketent       4.0       0.1      4.1       0.2      0.0        0.2          2        0
2. Teacher Training and Supervision
_________________
Pilot Progrm                          25.7     17.9      43.6       1.2      0.9        2.1        41         1
Dissemination Program                 33.1     32.1      65.2       1.6      1.5        3.1        49         2
Sub-Total In-service Training.            58.8      49.9    106.7       2.8      2.4        5.2         46        3
3. Planning, Management & Impl.           14.8     22.3      37.1       0.7      1.1        1.8         60        1
Sub-Total. Iproved Delivery of Educ.         77.6      72.3    149.9       3.7       3.4       7.1         48         4
C. Student Achievements
1. Learning Nodules/Achievement Testing 19.6        17.3     36.9       0.9      0.8        1.8         47        1
2. Textbooks & Suyplement. Materials   167.3    206.5    37N.8          8.0      9.8       17.8         55       11
Sub-Total Student Achievsents.           186.9    223.8    410.7        8.9     10.7       19.6         54     12.0
Total Baseline Costs                      2,678.2    662.2  3,340.3    127.5        31.5     159.1         20      100
Price Contingenies                       627.0    157.4    784.4       29.9      7.5       37.4         20       23
TOTAL PROWMA CO8TS                       3,305.2    619.5  4,124.7    157.4       39.0      196.4         20      123
MI        Costs of such a program include an estimated US$16.9 million equivalent
in duties and taxes.



-30-
Table 3.2: PEDP PROGRAM COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITUR9
--- Rupees Million----    -----US Million-----
I Total
I Foreign   Baae
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchate    Cosats
1. INIVESTHSUT COSTS
A. Civil Works
____________
Rural schools                       1,619.0    241.9  1,860.9        77.1     11.5       68.6         13        38
Urban Schools                          446.8     66.8    513.6       21.3      3.2       24.5         13        15
School Improvenents                   248.0      37.4    285.4       11.8      1.8       13.6         13         9
Sub-Total Civil Woaks                 2,313.8    346.0  2,659.8    110.2         16.5     126.7         13        80
B. Materials. Books 6 Equi"pent
Furniture &  quipyest                   12.0     24.2      36.2       0.6      1.2        1.7         67         1
Vehicles                                12.7     12.7      25.5       0.6       0.6       1.2         50         1
Printed materials                      79.6    163.7    243.3         3.8      7.8       11.6         67         7
Food                                    58.1     14.5      72.8       2.8      0.7        3.5         20         2
Sub-Total Mater, Books & Bquirmt.        162.4    215.1    377.5        7.7      10.2      18.0         57        11
C. Techbical Assistance
Specialist Services                     12.5     30.7      43.2       0.6      1.5        2.1         71         1
Fellowhips Training                     1.4     Z6.1      27.5       0.1      1.2        1.3         95         1
Project Studies                          0.9      5.4       6.3       0.0      0.3        0.3         65         0
Local Trainung                          25.4      3.6      28.9       1.2      0.2        1.4         12         1
Sub-Total Technical Assistance            40.2     65.7    105.9        1.9       3.1       5.0         62         3
II. RECBaERT COSTS
Admin. Salaries & Allomwnees            23.9      1.5      25.4       1.1       0.1       1.2          6         1
Scholarships                             7.5      0.1       7.6       0.4      0.0        0.4          1         0
Classroom Materials                    130.3     33.7    164.1        6.2      1.6        7.8         21         5
Sub-Total Rocurrent Costs                    161.7      35.3    197.0       7.7       1.7        9.4         18        6
-- - - - -- - - - --   -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --  -- -- - --    -- -- - --  -- -- -- -
Total Baseline Costs                       2,678.2    662.2  3,340.3    127.5        31.5      159.1        20       100
Price Contingencies                       627.0    157.4    784.4       29.9       7.5      37.4         20        23
TOTAL PUOMAUM COSTS                       3,305.2    819.5  4,124.7    157.4        39.0     196.4         20       123
Including Taaes and Duties of oSO Million:           16.9
W/ See Previous footnote



-31-
90.          Basis of Cost Estimates.  Costs of the primary school
construction program are based on reviews of recently awarded contracts in
Sindh for similar facilities financed under PEP2 (Credit 1621-PAK). The cost
of latrines, water pumps and boundary walls are based on unit cost estimates
prepared by DEEW, UNICEF designs for low cost latrines, and mission and
GOSindh estimates. Construction costs (including the above works and
blackboards) average a low US$163 per m2 and US$8,268 per classroom. Costs of
storage cupboards and teacher desks, supplementary reading materials,
textbooks, vehicles, training costs and consumable classroom materials,
including floor mats are based on detailed analyses of unit costs and
requirements for the programs outlined in Chapter II. Technical assistance
costs have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable TA in
PEP2 (Credit 1602-PAK) and include housing, relocation costs, salaries,
subsistence, office services, fees, overheads and recruitment costs. Costs of
salaries and allowances are based on current Government rates. Base cost
estimates reflect prices at the time of negotiations, January, 1990.
91.          Costs and Areas gar Student.  Construction costs per student
place are estimated at US$214 in urban areas and US$254 in rural areas, which
puts these unit costs into the lowest quartile of Bank financed education
projects.ZI Furniture unit costs (US$15) are in the same comparison range.
92.          Customs Duties and Taxes.  Costs of the PEDP program include an
estimated US$16.9 million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works
and goods. Equipment and paper imported for textbook production would be
exempt from duties and taxes.
93.          Contingency Allowances.  Because the numbers of classrooms and
other construction items (para. 36) have not been precisely defined, physical
contingencies have not been provided for these items. Physical contingencies
for non-construction items have been built into these items. Price
contingencies between negotiations (January 1990) and the end of project
implementation are estimated at US$37.4 million equivalent, or 19X of total
program costs. Annual rates of price increases have been applied to all
categories as per Table 3.3:
Table 3.3: ANNUAL PRICE ESCALATION IN X
1989    1990      1991   1992 - 1994      Thereafter
Local Costs:      12.0     9.0       7.0         5.0            3.5
Foreign Costs:     7.0     6.5      5.0          5.0            3.5
w      The comparison is made with the latest study on this topic - Unit Areas
and Unit Cost Estimates in Education Projects, dated November, 1983.



-32-
94.    Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: a) construction, refurbishment and maintenance of
existing facilities - 13X; b); teacher modules and other classroom materials -
501; c) imported paper for improved textbooks - 90X; d) foreign specialists -
851; e) local specialists - 101; f) overseas training - 901; g) local travel
allowances - 101; h) vehicles - 50sr; i) food items - 201; and j) salaries -01.
These percentages have been determined by: a) estimating the indirect foreign
exchange of construction related items; b) assuming that paper would be
imported; and c) assuming that vehicles would be locally assembled. Including
contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$39.0 million, or about 201 of total program costs.
95.    Recurrent Costs.  The incremental recurrent costs of the PEDP during
the five year period FY91-96 are estimated at Rps. 1.23 billion, of which Rps.
733 million (591) is salary costs, Rps. 407 million (33X) is for books and
classroom materials, and the remainder (8%) is for staff training, school
nutrition, administrative costs, maintenance and incidentals. On an annual
basis, the FY96 incremental costs (Rps. 189 million) are equivalent to 12.61
of GOSindh's FY89 recurrent expenditures on primary education, and are below
the 161 average annual real increase in primary education recurrent
expenditures recorded in Sindh during the period FY84-89 (Annex 2, Table 2).
Incremental recurrent expenditures are relatively low, because a portion of
the PEDP is devoted to rehabilitation of existing facilities and construction
of shelterless schools, where teachers have already been hired. The projected
incremental recurrent expenditures in the PEDP are reasonable, given the
urgent need to improve access, participation, delivery and student achievement
in this key sector.
B. Program Financing
96.    The proposed IDA Credit of US$112.5 million would finance 921 of the
foreign exchange component of the investment program (US$35.8 million and 491
of local costs (US$76.7 million). The recurrent costs implications of this
investment program are discussed in para 95. Additional financing for the
PEDP is likely to materialize as follows: a) cofinancing by the Norwegian
Government for girls' textbooks and the nutrition program (US$6.6 million);
and b) parallel financing by the ODA for teacher training and management
training (US$2.2 million). The GovernmentW would finance the balance of the
PEDP costs (US$75.1 million). Other sources of financing, complementary to
the objectives of the PEDP are discussed in paras. 11 (PWP) and 27 (PEP2 and
ADB). Project financing by disbursement category is shown in Table 3.4.
Further details of program financing are discussed in para 99. In order to
facilitate further project preparation activities and accelerate initial
SU The Government of Sind would commit itself to this level of investment.
During Annual Reviews (para. 101) any firm contribution of the Government of
Pakistan through the People's Work Program would, at the minimum, enable
GOSindh to sustain its contribution, but could also supplement it.



-33-
disbursements, retroactive financing equal to 9X of the proposed IDA Credit
would be included to:  a) cover the cost of school construction between
January 1, 1990, and Credit signing (up to US$9.6 million); and b) cover the
cost incurred after Oct. 1, 1989) of office equipment and specialist services
necessary for timely project start-up (up to US$0.4 million). During
negotiations, the Government confirmed its Intent to provide the necessary
invest,ent budget to meet its share of the PEDP investment program according
to the schedules in Tables 3.4 and 3.5, or as otherwise agreed between GOSindh
and IDA during the proposed annual reviews (para 101.(b)).
Table 3.4:  FUIR NCN  PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
----------------------o-------- us$   i n --------------_-----_______
International
Development       Government of       Government of      Gkoernment of       Total
Association           Norway              UK                 Sindh
Amount      I     AmoXt        I      Amount S             Amount X
Civil Works                          94.0      59.7                 0.0              0.0       63.6      40.3    157.6
Materials, Eqpt, Text & Vehicles
_______.________________________
Text Related Item                 12.9     a7.0        1.9     13.0       0.0    0.0                  0.0      14.8
Equipment, Furn. A Vebicles        1.2     36.5                 0.0       0.0    0.0         2.2     63.5       3.4
Sub-Total, Mater.Eqt, Text, Veh   14.1         77.6       1.9     10.5       0.0    0.0         2.2      11.9      18.2
Incentives
=_________
Food                                         0.0      4.5    100.0                0.0                  0.0      4.5
Scholarships                                 0.0      0.2    100.0                0.0                  0.0      0.2
Sub-Total, Incentives                 0.0       0.0       4.7    100.0          1    0.0        0.0       0.0       4.7
Technical Assistance                  3.9      63.8                0.0              36.2                  0.0       6.2
Salaries & SuppUes
=__________________
A*dmin Salaries & Allowances       0.3     20.2                 0.0               0.0        1.4      79.8       1.7
Classr. Supplies                             0.0                0.0               0.0        8.0    100.0       3.0
Sub-Total Salaries & Supplies         0.3       3.5       0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0         9.4      95.5       e.7
Total Disbursements                 112.5      57.3       6.6      3.4       2.2    1.1        75.1      38.2    195.4



-34-
C. Program Implementation and Disbursements
97.          Overview.  The PEDP would be implemented by suitably modified
line agencies of the Sindh Government, reinforced through TA. The principal
implementation agencies would be: (a) the Planning and Coordination Wing (see
below &id para 52); (b) the DEEW (para 43, 107); (c) the Curriculum Wing (para
66); and (d) the Textbook Board (para 83).   As described in Chapter II, two
substantial changes are being made to the existing management structure: a)
the strengthening of the proposed Planning and Coordination Wing (responsible
for monitoring, evaluation, statistics, disbursements and implementation of
the PEDP and future projects) under an Additional Education Secretary for
Planning and Coordination; and b) the separation of management
responsibilities for primary and secondary education at the Division and
District level. Under the revised arrangement there would be separate
administrative units for: (a) planning, monitoring and evaluation of physical
progress; (b) budgeting and accounting; and (c) disbursements and Special
Accounts. Further details of planning, management and implementation
arrangements are discussed in Annex 8, and include a chart, highlighting the
proposed changes in the administrative structure.
98.          Earlier Project Implementation Exnerience.  Earlier IDA financed
education projects in Pakistan have comprised discrete, well defined, and ex-
AM clearly identifiable project items (para. 21-23). Experience in the
implementation of projects in the primary education sub-sector has however
demonstrated severe shortcomings to the above approach because:
(a)   implementation of these projects has generally been managed
through temporary project implementation units (PIUs), and the
subsequent financial and managerial integration of these enclaves
into the existing government structure has proved difficult
(para. 69); and
(b)   previous application of the Government's principal planning
instrument (PC-l)VW to primary education development in a
monolithic format did not meet the decentralized decision making
requirements of large and geographically scattered primary
education projects, which involve a plethora of Government and
other agencies in a large number of small and evolving decisions.
Government drafting of the PC-1 in a manner consistent with the
decentralization and flexibility required of the PEDP is
MU     With few exceptions, development projects in Pakistan must be presented
to the decision-making authorities in prescribed, highly detailed form
(PC-1), which becomes binding in every detail (with a 151 discretion)
on the implementing authorities. Because of their size, IDA financed
projects require approvals for any amendment by the highest decision
making body of the Government (ECNEC). Smaller PC-ls can be approved
at provincial or lower levels.



-35-
therefore important. Prior to negotiations, GOSindh prepared a
draft PC-1 satisfactory to IDA. Approval of the PC-1 by the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECUEC)
would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
99.          Progosed Financial Arrangements.  In order to overcome the
difficulties experienced in implementing earlier, rigidly defined projects,
IDA financing would supplement GOSindh's Annual Development Program (ADP) for
primary education, including the associated initial recurrent costs as
follows: each year, IDA, the Norwegian and the British Governments would
finance an amount up to that indicated in the financing schedule in Table 3.5,
which would be complemented by the Government's contribution to the ADP. The
funds of each contributing financier would be viewed as a part of the ADP, but
held in a separate account to facilitate audits (para. 105). Details of
investments in education in Sindh prior to the PEDP (Annex 2 - Table 2.) show
that financing of primary education from all sources amounted to US$26.0
million in 1988/89, or about 861 of the proposed 1990/91 investment level.
Table 3.5: FPi=wneln Reanirnenta b! eazU
_____     mm* nuu~~~~~~_
mmhe PM  Period
1990/91 1991/S2 1992/93 1993/94 I994/95 1993/98 196/97   Total
G:v:  t of La M          11.7  12.9  14.9  14.9  16.3   2.4    2.1   75.1
TnternatAal. DLveloum.t Asso. 17.7  29.3  22.9  22.4  24.0   2.0    0.2  112.5
Goveszznut of Soway      0.7   0.8   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.2    0.8    6.6
Gvwenmt of UK            0.0   0.7   0.8   0.8   0.0   0.0    0.0    2.2
Totalas Fianning 3sqic it  30.2  37.6  29.4  39.0  41.5   5.6    2.1  196.N
100.   The advantages of the proposed financing arrangement are expected to be
at least the following:  a) it would avoid dissipation of budget resources by
integrating IDA financing firmly into existing financing and implementation
structures of the Government; b) it would enable appropriately decentralized
decision making at the provincial and district levels by financing relatively
small decentralized sub-projects in support of an agreed annual program (para.
100 (b)); and consequently; c) it would accelerate disbursements through
greatly increased reliance on well known, ongoing Government procedures.
101.         Annual reviews of the implementation of policies and investments
would be held between the Government (both GOSindh and PWP representatives),
IDA and other donors wishing to participate in such review. The parties would
review progress and agree the following year's ADP. The details of the
proposed IDA financing mechanism would be as follows:
(a)   During each of the five PEDP years, IDA would put its share of
the ADP budget at the disposal of the Government. IDA funds
LV See also para 27 for assistance to primary education in Sind,
complementary to the PEDP (ADB and PWP).



-36-
would be disbursed into two Special Assignment Accounts to be
operated by the AESPC and DEEW (see para. 104).
(b)   During an appropriate time in each budget year (January/February)
the Government, IDA and other donors would conduct an annual
review to determine progress towards the agreed physical,
financial and policy targets and to review the adequacy of the
following year's budget allocations, to be supported jointly by
funds from the Government, IDA and cofinanciers. To ensure: (i)
that GOSindh and IDA are well informed about progress; and (ii)
that the financiers of the various items are clearly identified;
a semi-annual reporting mechanism has been developed (Annex 11).
To facilitate adjustments in the use of IDA funds ancd to simplify
the keeping of accounts and audits, IDA financed items would be:
i) clearly identifiable under a separate account head; and ii)
100l financed from IDA funds. Items to be supported during the
subsequent fiscal year would be firm, while budget allocations
for the remaining years would be indicative and would
subsequently be firmed up during the next joint annual budget
review. During negotiations, the Government agreed to conduct
joint annual reviews with IDA in January/February each year to
review progress in achieving the objectives of the PEDP under the
ongoing ADP; and determine on the basis of such review, the
components of the PEDP to be carried out under the following ADP
and the financing requirements therefore (para. 119.(k)).
102.   Disbursements.  The proposed program would be disbursed over a period
of about eight years. Disbursements for the IDA supported account in the ADP
would be made against 1001 of the following expenditures:
(a)   civil works, including rehabilitation;
(b)   directly imported equipment, educational materials and books;
(c)   ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured or locally
procured equipment, educational materials, furniture, and books
(excluding vehicles which would be procured by the Government
under reserved procurement);
(d)   incremental administrative salaries (for new administrative staff
at the secretariat and division level (para. 72 (a)), studies,
consultant services and fellowships.
103.   Disbursements, as a subsidy to the Textbook Board for using improved
materials for text paper and book covers in its textbook production, would be
made against 281 of the total expenditures of the Textbook Board against these
improved items, which represents the estimated production cost increase as a
result of using superior materials (para. 85).



-37-
104.   Disbursements under the proposed program may be expected to follow a
different pattern from earlier projects because of its different nature:
about 80X of its value is in support of an ongoing construction program, which
is currently performing well. However, in view of earlier experienced
implementation delays in education projects in Pakistan, and to build in a
time contingency buffer, disbursements from the proposed credit have been
conservatively estimated to take place on an average of about 18 months after
the scheduled availability of credit funds. A disbursement schedule and
profile, reflecting this estimate and making a comparison with the country
education projects profile, is shown in Annex 12. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by December 31, 1998.
105.   Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$20,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation. Disbursements
against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), available for review by Bank missions. To facilitate
program implementation, the Government would establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, two Special Accounts in
the National Bank of Pakistan: one operated b, the AESPC for all expenditures
other than for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance; and the other
operated by the DREW for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
expendituresa. Upon Program Effectiveness, IDA would make initial deposits
into the accounts, equivalent to about US$1.0 million for the AESPC account
and US$6.0 million for the DEEW account. Each Special Account would be
replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the account falls
below an amount equal to 50X or less of the amount of the Special Account.
Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate documentation.
106.   ccounts and Audits.  The office of the AESPC would maintain separate
accounts for the IDA financed portion of the ADP and would prepare semi-annual
progress reports on physical and financial progress made in achieving the
objectives of the PEDP program (Annex 11). IDA financed program accounts
(which would be distinctly identifiable within the overall ADP) including the
Special Accounts (para. 105) would be audited in accordance with the March
1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". Monitoring and auditing of incurred expenditures
would continue for about two years after each budget year to allow for multi-
year expenditures, such as construction. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to provide within nine months of the end of each fiscal year an audit
report of such scope and detail as the Association may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified
statements of expenditures.
The proposed procedure is similar to the now well functioning
arrangement in the Second Education Project where each project entity is
responsible for the operation of its Special Account.



-38-
D.  Procurement Aan8menAts
107.         The DEEW would be responsible for procuring the largest part of
PEDP -- the construction program. The DEEW has proven its capacity to
implement small school contracts, both in urban and remote rural areas and is
currently Imp.t"e*ting over 2,000 contracts financed under PEP2.  The
administrative capacity of the Directorate grew from awarding 5 contracts in
1978/79, to 2,154 contracts with a budget allocation of Rps. 790 million in
1987/88.   The accounting and auditing procedures at provincial, district and
sub-district level are designed to ensure that funds are well spent, and that
contractors are paid promptly. Table 3.6 below summarizes the proposed
procurement arrangements, and the reasons for exceptions to ICB are discussed
below the table:
Table 3.6: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(Total Costs of Proposed Program Components Including Contingencies)
US$ Million
ICB      LCB     OTHER     N/A      TOTAL
Civil Works                                157.6                       157.6
(94.0)                      (94.0)
Printing and Publishing             6.4      2.2      1.9               10.6
(6.4)    (2.2)    (0.0)              (8.6)
Supplementary Readers                                 4.2                4.2
(4.2)             (4.2)
Equipment & Furniture               1.2      0.8                         2.0
(1.2)    (0.0)                       (1.2)
Vehicles                                               1.4               1.4
(0.0)             (0.0)
Food Related Items                                    4.5                4.5
(0.0)             (0.0)
Technical Assistance                                  6.2                6.2
(3.9)             (3.9)
Incremental Rec. Costs (Incl. Scholarships)                     9.9      9.9
(0.3)    (0.3)
Total Financing Requirements      7.7    160.6     18.2       9.9    196.4
Total IDA Financing              (7.7)   (96.3)    (8.2)    (0.3)  (112.5)
a/  Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit



-39-
108.         Ongoing experience with PEP2 has shown that large scale
contractors have not been interested in bidding on the highly dispersed
construction programs in rural SindhV. Therefore the DEEW would implement
the proposed primary school construction, renovation and maintenance program
as a series of small, individual school contracts. However, to encourage the
participation of larger contractors, wishing to bid simultaneously on several
contracts (particularly in urban areas), all construction contracts would be
awarded once annually in district-wide lots under LCB procedures.
109.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Creditsu (Nay, 1985)
would be used for the procurement of paper and minor printing machinery for
textbooks5M.
110.         The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows:
(a)   Based on past experience with procure.ment packaging (para. 108),
all civil works and refurbishment contracts (totalling about
USS157.6 million) would be awarded in accordance with competitive
bidding advertised locally, and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. Bids would be invited in groups
as discussed in para. 108. There would be about 14,000 small
contracts, none of which would exceed US$75,000 equivalent in
value.
(b)   Contracts for printing and publishing, estimated to cost US$2.2
million, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
proceduxes advertised locally, and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
(c)   The NORAD financed textbooks for girls (US$1.9 million) would be
procured at invoiced cost from the Textbook Board, less the 28X
IDA subsidy of paper and cover materials (paras. 85, 103).
(d)   Contracts for supplementary readers, estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, which in the aggregate would not
exceed US$4.2 millions, would be awarded after negotiations with
publishers for discount.
Experience in the Second Education Project (where over 2,000 contracts
in rural ares are currently under execution) has shown that most contractors
bid on only one school. It is an exceptional case where the same contractor
has implemented 3-4 schools at the same time. Future contracts for schools in
urban areas (Karachi and Hyderabad in particular) may, however, follow a
different pattern, with the same contractor bidding for several schools.
J4/    PEDP/IDA financing of this item would consist of a subsidy to the
Textbook Board as further discussed in paras. 85, 103.



-40-
(e)   Vehicles (US$1.4 million) would be procured under reserved
procurement by the Government.
(f)   Contracts for the nutrition program (US$4.5 million - financed by
NORAD) would be awarded through prudent shopping.
(g)   Sundry items not exceeding US$50,000 in each contract and
estimated to cost about US$0.8 million equivalent would be
purchased on the basis of local bidding, or through prudent
shopping procedures based on comparing price quotations from at
least three suppliers -- all in accordance with local procurement
procedures.
(h)   IDA financed Technical assistance, including fellowships and
studies (US$6.2 million) would be procured through bid
solicitation and through ODA procedures (para. 112).
111.   In comparison of bids to be procured through ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 151, or the existing
customs duty payable by non-exempt importers, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. prices of competing imports.
112.         Procurement of Technical Ass1istance.  To ensure a coordinated TA
management, the NOE would obtain specialist services and fellowships as a
maximu of four TA contracts. TA for teacher training and supervision, and
primary education management (Annex 5) would be provided by ODA. For TA
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (for construction management, and
books and supplementary materials (Annex 5)), unless otherwise agreed by IDA,
at least three qualified institutions would submit proposals for each package,
following a shortlisting of institutions acceptable to the Association. The
consultants financed out of the proceeds of the Credit would be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency".   The signing of agreements for
the provision of the Technical Assistance would be a Condition of Credit
Effectiveness.
113.         Contract Reviews.  Under ICB procedures, invitations to bid and
the proposed award of contracts would be reviewed by the Association prior to
final awards. This review is estimated to cover all paper procurement
contracts financed by the Association (a subsidy, valued at US$6.4 million
eqvuivalent and the cost of printing machinery (US$1.2 million). All other IDA
financed contracts for goods procurement (US$100.4 million equivalent) would
be subject to selective post award reviews. All IDA financed TA contracts
would be subject to IDA review prior to execution.
114.         Status of Program Freoaration.  The proposed program is in a
state of preparation that would permit timely implementation because: a) the
proposed construction program would be a continuation of an ongoing program
financed in part under PEP2, in which over 2,000 contracts were awarded
between March 1989 and September, 1989; b) about 301 of the construction under



-41-
the PEP2 contracts has now been completed; and c) the TA package has been
fully defined, and draft terms of reference are prepared. Program completion
would be June 30, 1998 and the Closing Date would be December 31, 1998.
115.         Enviro-nmental ImRact. The environmental impact of the proposed
program is expected to be neutral. On the one hand, there would be the
necessary emissions associated with the baking of bricks in wood fired kilns
and other unavoidable environmental disruptions associated with the
construction of a large number of small schools. On the other hand the
program would seek to improve the sanitary environment of about 2,100 existing
schools, which currently lack basic sanitary necessities (para. 39), and would
provide such basic facilities for all new construction.
116.         IDA Supervision Requirements. The PEDP would require intensive
IDA Supervision, particularly in the first three years of operation, to assist
GOSindh with start-up of PEDP components and implementation of the various
policy measures described in Chapter II. Initial amnual supervision
requirements are therefore estimated at a minimum of 18 staff-weeks per year.



-42-
OA=PTE  IV
BENEFITS AD RISKS
A. Beneflts
117.         The PEDP would increase primary school enrollments by improving
access, and providing incentives for participation in school; improve learning
by enhancing the quality of instruction, and the availability and standard of
educational materials; improve efficiency through measures to reduce
repetition and drop-out; and imDrove delivery of primary education through
better management and administration. An experimental school nutrition
program would provide incentives for enrollment, and test the linkages between
improved nutritional status and learning. Aggregate enrollments are expected
to grow by 538,000 between AY 1990-91 and 1995-96, an increase of 24X. In
particular, rural female enrollment would more than double, from 173,000 to
339,000; enabling the participation rate to rise from 14X to 23X. By
supporting a least cost investment approach and efficier.t planning, the PEDP
would maximize the benefits to be gained from primary education expenditures
at a time of severe resource constraints.
D. Risks
118.         The major risk is that cutbacks in government expenditures on
primary education would jeopardize the achievement of the PEDP targets. The
consequences of rapid population growth are such that the PEDP represents the
minimu investment needed to allow for growth in the rural participation rate,
essential improvements in efficiency, and enhanced quality of instruction to
ensure that children leave primary education literate and numerate. The
government is firmly committed to these objectives, and provided assurances at
negotiations that it would meet the necessary investment targets. A
subsidiary risk is that the government may be unable to carry out the physical
and institutional objectives of a program of the proposed scale. However, the
Sindh Government's physical implementation capacity has been improved during
the implementation of previous IDA assisted projects, and would be further
strengthened in the proposed program. To minimize institutional constraints,
the organization and management of primary education would be improved. In
addition, the PEDP would in the main consolidate and extend programs which had
been positively tested in previous operations, using and strengthening
existing line agencies.



-43-
CATR V
CONDITIONALZITE AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AreeenIta Reached at 1enotiattons
119.         During negotiations, GOSindh provided assurances that it would,
during the period encompassed by the PEDP:
(a)   Adhere to the priorities and criteria for construction described
in para. 38.
(b)   Maintain the role of the Directorate of Engineering Works, and
that an expansion, in accordance with an appropriate staffing
plan, would be carried out by June 30, 1991 (para. 43).
(c)   In time for the beginning of AY 1990-91, change the timing of the
school calendar to August 1 - May 30 (para. 49).
(d)   For a period of two years, starting in the school year 1990-91,
and in three selected districts:
(i)        experiment with flexible school hours to suit local
conditions in a total of about 150 selected rural
schools;
(ii)       abolish the requirement ior school uniforms for
primary scbool children in rural areas;
(iii)      abolish the end of year examination for grades 1 and
2, provide automatic promotion between grades 1 and 3,
and develop and introduce achievement testing as part
of the curriculum to monitor individual and cohort
student achievement.
(e)   by June 30, 1992, complete and furnish to IDA a study evaluating
the impact of the measures described in paras. 49, 119.(d) on
enrollment, attendance and retention of students. Following an
exchange of views with IDA, GOSindh would proceed with the
introduction of the above measures in all districts of Sindh by
the beginning of AY 1992-93, if and to the extent such an
introduction is warranted on the basis of the Study and the
exchange of views with IDA (para. 49).
(f)   By the start of AY 1992, assign all GCET places to new entrants
to the teaching profession. By December 31, 1991, amend the
regulations to allow those from the primary education stream with
appropriate qualifications and experience to compete for all GCET
faculty positions (para. 62).



-44.
(g)   Constitute a steering group for in-service teacher training, and
by September 30, 1990 and annually thereafter, provide for IDA
review an annual report on the activities and expenditures of the
in-service training program for primary teachers (para. 66).
(h)   By December 31, 1990: a) complete the reorganization at the
secretariat, divisional and district levels; b) create all
resulting staff positions as regular positions, irrespective of
sources of finance; and c) adequately staff the PCW and the
divisional and district level positions in accordance with agreed
job descriptions (para. 73).
(i)   Pilot test all new primary education textbook manuscripts
developed during the PEDP prior to publication (para. 83).
(j)   Provide the necessary investment budget to meet its share of the
PEDP investment program according to the schedule in Table 3.5,
or as otherwise agreed between GOSindh and IDA during the
proposed annual review (para. 96).
(k)   conduct joint annual reviews with IDA in January/February each
year to review progress in achieving the objectives of the PEDP
under the ongoing ADP; and determine on the basis of such review,
the components of the PEDP to be carried out under the following
ADP and the financing requirements therefore (para. 101.(b)).
(1)   Provide within nine months of the end of each fiscal year an
audit report of such scope. and detail as the Association may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor
on disbursements against a certified statement of expenditure
(para. 106)
C. Condition of Board Presentation
120.  During negotiations, GOSindh informed IDA of its agreement to introduce
the various measures to improve recruitment, deployment and motivation
of rural female teachers, and to make primary teaching a more
attractive career, outlined in para. 58; thus satisfying the condition
for Board presentation.
D. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
121.   (a)   Approval of the PC-1 by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (para. 98.(b)).
(b)   The signing of an agreement with one or more qualified firms for
the provision of technical assistance (para. 112).



-45-
122.   Recommendation,  Subject to the above, the proposed operation provides
a suitable base for a US$112.5 million Credit to the Government of Pakistan.



Staff Appraisat Report                                             Atwex I - Table I
Sindh Primary Education Development Program
Evolution of Enrollment at All Levels in Pakistan
Between 1975-76 and 1988-89
(Figures Expressed in Thousand Except Otherwise Noted)
I Anvmia
Level                Grades 1975-76  76-7?  77-78  78-79  79-80 80-81  81-82  82-63  83-84  54-85  85-86 86-87 87-88 88-89    inrrease
1/     I/    21  1975-1988
PRIMARY                1-5    5.319  5,611  5,015  5,131  5,213  5,474  5,741  6,179 6,860 6,828  7,094  7.445 7.606 7.768              3.01
(Index: 1975=100)             100    105     94     96     98    103    108    116    129    128    133    140    143    146
(X feamtes)                    291    28%    32X   32X   321   33X   33X   33X   321    33X   33X   331    331   331
SECONDARY
Nidd(e Staoe           6-8    1,247  1,296  1,304  1,301  1,391  1,412  1,494  1,494  1,730  1,805  1,910  2,051  2,134 2,216           4.51
NHgh Stoge             9-10     493    509    506   479    476    509    543    578   606   645    66?   682    698   715               2.91
Vocationat             9-10      31     29     26      29    35      40     45     49     53    57      59     61     63     64         5.71
Total Secondary 3/         1,771  1.836  1,836  1,809  1.902  1,961  2,082 2,121  2,3B9 2,507 2,636 2,794  2,805  2,995              4.11
(Index: 1975=100)             100    104    104    102    107   111    118    120    135    142    149   158    163   169
(Z Females)                    231 241 241 251  25X   25    26                  25     24X   241    271    271    27X   28
POST-SECONDARY
Cotteges (Arts&Sc.)  11-14      211    223    221    233    253    270    283    297    355    373    400    411    425   439           s.ax
Prof'nal Colleges     13-16      56     57     62      67     72     56     58    59      56    59    6B       72     77     80         2.81
t*niversfties         13-20      23     38     41      39     42    43      48    49      50    54    60       61     65     69         8.91
TotaL Post-Secondary 3/      290    318    324    339   367   369    388    404   462   486    528   545    568   589                5.6X
(Index: 1975=100)             100    110    112    117    127    127    134    140    159   168    182    188    196   203
(1 Females)                    23X   271    281    271    261   281    291    291    281    28        28X   291    291   29M
1/  Revised Estimates.      2/ Estimates.         3/ Detal led figres mmay not add up to totals because of roundings.
Source: Goverment of Pakistan, Economic Survey of Pakistan - 1989.
c:\anxltabl .wk1



- 47 -
Staff Aepralsl Rport                   Ax I - Table 2
Sl,dh Priwry Education Detopent Proram
Evolution  of Priry Schooring Enrollment In Sifi
Betwen 901 -2 nd 19t6-87 t/
(Figures Expreosed In Thousad Except Otherwise Noted)
S Anmjat
Xilieu     Gender   1981-82  1982.83  1983-86  1964-85  198-86  1986-87   Growth
1981/1916
ENROLLMENT AT PRIMARY LEVEL  2V
Urbn       soy          515      540      S53      585      59?      S99         3S
Girts        338      s5?      382      410      615      410         4S
....... ......    ....    ....  ---. I.  ....    ....
Total        853      897      93       994   t,012    1.00t          33
Rural       ost                  528  64 0      64 S        723      781         9n
Girls         87       91      126      121      138      t54        12X
.. .............    ....    ....    ....  ....    ....
Total        604      619      766      766      861      935         9S
TOTAL     soys        1.032    1,068   1,194    1,230    1,320    1,380          6S
Girls        425      *48      508      530      553      56          63
Total       1.458    1,S16    1.701    1,760    1,873    1,943        6S
Of Which:
Mosque    Boys           NA       NA       75       76      114      167        KA
Schools   Girls         NA       NA       33       33       47       60        KA
.. ..................    ....    ....    ....
Total         NA       NA      108      110      160      227        KA
Private    "S            hA       NA       IA      130      139      183        NA
Schools  Girls          KA       KA       KA      15S      13t      14?        NA
..  .... ......    ....    ....    ....    ....    ....
Total         LA        A       IUA     284      276      332        KA
ESTIMATED POPULATION (AGE-GROUP 5-9) 3/
Urban      Boys         630      658      688      719      752      786       4.5S
Girts        589      616      644      673      704      736       4.61
Total       1,219    1,274    1,332    1,392    1,656    1,522      4.51
Rural     soy           976     1004    1,034    1,064    1,096    1,128       2.9S
Girts        946      974    1,003    1,033    1,063    1,095       3.03
Total       1,922    1,978   2,037   2,097   2,159    2,223         3.01
GROSS PARTICIPATIN RATE (in percentage) 4/
Urban      Boys          823      82S      80X      81X      79S      76X
Girtls        57S      58S      59S      613      59S      56X
.. ......._....  ....    ....    ....    ....    ....
Totat         703      703      703      713      693      661
Rural     Soya           S33      53X      623      613      663      693
Girts          9S       9S      131      121      133      143
.. .............    ....    ....    ....  ....    ....
Totat         313      313      383      37S      401      42X
Province-wide            463      *73      50      O5        52X      523
1/ Detalted figures my not add up to totats because of rodings.
2/ Source: Bureau of Statistics, Planiing and Davelorint DepWrtnt, Goverenit of
Sind: Sch,ot Edecation Statistics in Slnd (1984-85, 1986-86 arnd 1986-87).
3/ Source Burau  of Statistics, Plarwinin and Dvelopuent Department, Gover,nt of
Sfnd: Sind Poputation Statistics, Aprit 1966; Mission estimtas.
Note: Population estimtes for age-$roap 5-9 crputed by milieu nd by sex on the
basis of 1981 Census figrs at district tevet and growth rates by mitieu.
4/ The Gross Participation Rate is dfifned as the prortion of the age cohort (5-9)
vhich is fn sdchot. The data Inctude over arnd wder-age chltdren wnd repeaters.
c:%snx1tab2.kIi



- 48 -
Anmex I - Toabe 3
Staff Appraisal Report
sindh Primary Education Development Program
Evolution of Secondary Schooling Enroltlment in Slndh
Between 1981-82 and 1986-87 1/
(Figures Expressed in Thousand Except Otherwise Noted)
1986-87   X Annual
1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87    -- of tAich --   Grouth
Total   Total    Total    Total    Total    Total    Urban    Rural  1981/86
ENROLLNENT AT SECONDARY LEVEL 2/
A. Middle School Level (Grades 6-8)
Boys       255      279      294     305      314      321       243       79      4.7X
Girls      131      136      144      153      157      157      152        5     3.72
Total     387       415     438      458      471      479      395        84      4.42
B. High School Level (Grades 9 and 10)
Bays       108       eS      121      125      125     129       106       23     3.7X
Girls      54       56       58       59       60       61       61        0       2.4X
Total      162      171      179      184     185      191       167       23     3.32
Total (Grades 6-10)
BOys      363      393      415      430      439      451      349       102      4.42
Girls      186      193      202     212      217      219       214        5      3.32
Total      549      586      617     642      656      669       562      107      4.0X
ESTIMATED POPULATION (AGE-GROUP 10-14) 3/
Boys     1,294    1,340    1,387    1,436    1,487    1,540     690       850     3.52
Girls    1,090    1,128    1,168    1.210    1,253    1,297     617       680     3.52
Total    2,384   2,468    2,556   2,646    2,740   2,837    1,307    1,530         3.52
GROSS PARTICIPATION RATE (in percentage) 4/
Boys     28.12    29.32    29.92    29.92    29.52    29.32    50.52    12.02
Girls     17.02    17.12    17.32    17.52    17.32    16.92    34.62     0.7X
Total    23.0S   23.72   24.12   24.32    23.9X   23.62    43.02          7.0X
1/ Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of rourdings.
2/ Source: Bureau of Statistics, Planning and Levelopment Department, Goverrusent of Sind: School
Education Statistics In Slnd (1984-85, 1986-86 and 1986-87).
3/ Source: Bureau of Statistics, Planning and Development Department, Goverrment of Slnd: Sird
Population Statistics, April 1986; MIssion estimates.
Note: Population estimates for age-group 10-14 computed by milieu and by sex on the basis of
1981 Census figures at district level and growth rates by milieu.
4/ The Gross Participation Rate is defined as the proportion of the age cohort (10-14) which is
in school. The data include over and under-age children and repeaters.
c:\anx1tab3.wkl



Staff Appraisal Report                    Amex 1 - Table 4
Sinui Primary Education Develtopmnt Program               Page 1 of 4
Gross Transition Rates between Grades
and Between Primary and Secondary Levels in Sindh 1/ 2/
1980-81      1981-82     1982-83       1983-84      1984-85      1985-66        1986-87  Period 1980-1986
._ ................  ..........   ............        ...................                     .....
Enrol. GTR Enrol. GTR   Enrol. 6TR   Enrol. GTR   Enrol. GTR  Enrol. GTR  Enrol. GTR             ArnMal Growth
(I000)  (M)  ('000) (M)   ('000) (M)   ('000) (1)   ('000) (M)   ('000)  (X)  ('000) (X)       of Enrollment
PRINART SCHOOLING
Gradb I
Boy    329          345          352          369           384           392          401              31
Girls  131          135          138          144           155           156          152              2X
Totel  461          40           490          512           539           547          553              3X
Boys   206          227    691   235    60    246    701   257    70M    267    7   X274    701         5X
Girl    90           97  74 102    761108   78X114   79                   117  75     116    751        4
Total  296          324    701  338    701  353    721   371    721   364    711  390    711           5S
Grade 3
169         185  901195 86S20386X210 85  222  86205  77    31
GeIrls   76          76   851  81    8 1 87   841 582X                     93  82       93    801       41
otal245             261     X  276    851290    861296841   315   85129                       781       3X
Grads 4
la"     i9          149   SU    154   831   161    831   163   801    178    851   102   821            5X
G8rt1  6U            63  5        678 N 173  901    75   816               77    7      76    81X       3X
Total   204         211    86X   222    851   234    85M   238    821    254    851  258    821        4a
Grads 5
Boys   120          12    911 131   881   139   901  139   86S   148    91X  152   86t                  41
Gfrls   54           54   851   60    961   64    95         65 891        65    661  65    851         3X
Total  174          181    891  191    901   203    9Z1   204   871    213   891   217   85S            41
Total (Gr. I to 5)
Boys    964       1,032        1.068        1,118         1,153         1,206        1,214              41
6Gils  415          425          448          475           497           507          503              3X
Total 1,3?9       1,458        1,516        1,593         1,651         1,713        1,717              4X
U



ft"       m-      ca                       em           a ^ill il l l E l
*1                       I -    NN ^n. B                 
t~~~~~~~~~           -   -         S      -                       ¢
,   I | O          -  8o                  
t  % a g nN " 1%           , O
13g -                                             
t   ¢ i   _ m .                                    _ m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  * _ 
oe    .           5 zza___                                          #          1     
,, ~ ~    ~     m                                                           - "# n* §#*§i§;l    
--m*   -1m*- 
-~~ 05 -



Staff Appraisal Report                     Anrex 1 - Table 4
Sindh Primary Education Development Program                Page 3 of 4
Gross Transition Rates (GTR) between Grades
and Between Primary and Secondary Levels in Sindh 1/ 2/
1980-81     1981-82      1982-83       1983-84      1984-85       1985-86       1986-87    Period 1980-1986
Enrol.  6TR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol.  GtR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol. GTR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol. GTR   X Annual Growth
('000)  (X)  ('000)  (X)  ('000)  (1)  ('000)  (X)  ('000)  (X)  ('000)   (X)  ('000)  (X)    of Enrollment
SECONDARY SCNOOLING
Grade 6
loys     90          99           105          110           114           118          123              5S
Girls    48          52            54           55            58            61           61               4X
Total   138         151           158          164           172           179          184               5X
Grade 7
Boys     77          83    92X    91    921  97    921  100    91X    104    91X   106   89X              5X
Gfrls    40          42    87    44 84          47  87        50    91X     51    871  51    841          4X
Total   117         125    901   135    89%   143    91    150    911    155   901   157   88X            5X
Grade 8
Boys    68           74    96X    83  1001  88    971    91    941          92  92            89X         5X
Girls    35          37    93X    39    92X    42    97X    45    96X       45    911   45    891         41                                                      'n
Total   103         110    951   122    97X   131    971   136    951    137    921   138    89X          5X
Grade 9
Boys     52          56    831  59  81X    62    75X    65    73X           64     70X   67    731        4X
Girls    27          29     2      30    801   31    79    31    741        32    711   32    711         31
Total    80          85    82    89    81       93    76    96    731       94711   99    731             41
Grodelo
Boys     47          52   1001  55    99        59   99    60    961        61    94X    62    971        5X
Gfrls    25          26 93127    931    38    931 28    921                 29   91X    29    911         3X
Total    72          78    97X    82    971  86    971   88    95           89  93       91    951        41
Total (orades 6-10)
Boys    334         363           393          415           430           439          451               5X
Girls   175         186           193          202           212           217          219               41
Total  509          549           586          617           642           6S6          669               5X



Staff Appraisat Report                    Amex 1 - Table 4
Sindh Primary Education Development Program               Page 4 of 4
Gross Transitils Rates tGTR) between Grades
and Between Primary and Secondary Levels in Sindh 1/ 2/
1960-81     1981-82      1982-83      1983-84       1984-85      1985-86       1986-87   Perfod 1980-1986
_ . ........ .................. .... ......... ............  ................... ............ ...................  ........... .....   .................
Enrol.  GTR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol. CTR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol.  GTR  Enrol. GTR  X Annal Growth
('000)  (1)  (9000)  tX)  t'000)  (1)  ('000)  (1)  ('000)  (M)  ('000)   (%)  ('000)  (1)    of Enrollment
OMORT PROFILES 3/
oTS     Grade 6                                               90   100%     99   100%   105   100%
Grade 7                                               83   92%      91    92X   97   92%
Grade 8                                               83   92%      88   89%    91    87X
Grade 9                                               62    69%     65    65%   64    61%
Grade 10                                             60    671      61    61X   62    59X
GIRLS    Grade 6                                               48   100%     52   100%    54   100X
Grade 7                                              42   87X    44    84%    47   87%
Grade 8                                               39    80%     42   11%    45    841
Grade 9                                              31    63%      31    60X   32    59%
Gradk 10                                              28   581      29   S5X    29    54%
BOYS &   Grade 6                                              138  100%    151   100%   158   100%
GIRLS    Grade r                                              125   90X    135   89%   143    91%
Grade 8                                              122    88%    131    87%   136   86X
Grade 9                                              93    67%      96    64%    96   61X
Grade 10                                             as   641      89   59X    91    58X
....................
1/ Detailed figures way not add up to totals because of roundings.
2/ Source: Bureau of Statistics, Plnming and Development Department, Govermment of Sinjh: Sshool Education Statistics
in Sindh (1984-5.8 1985-86 and 1986-87 Aeports).
3/  Cobort Profilts provido an estimate of the proportfon of pupIls enrolled In Grade 6 completIng secondary schooling
in the prescrihd 5-year perfod.
c:%anx;1tab6.wk1



- 53 -
Annex 1 - Table 5
Staff Appraisal Report
Sindh Primary Education Development Program
Projected Population Growth Rate by Milieu in Sindh 1/
1985-1990    1990-1995    1985-1995
Total Population              3.5%          3.5%         3.5%
Age-Group 5-9                 3.6%          3.7%         3.6%
Urban Areas              4.5%          4.6%         4.5%
Rural Areas              2.9%          2.9%         2.9%
1/  Source: Bureau of Statistics, Planning and Development
Department, Government of Sindh: Sindh Population Statistics,
April 1986.
c:\anxltab5.wkl
44                                               4



Amex I - Table 6
Staff Appraisal Report
Sindh Primary Education Development Program
Effect of Population Growth in Sindh on Participation in Prinery Education
by Milieu and by Sex to the Horizon 1995
(Figures Expressed in Thousand Except Otherwise Noted)
AcadmDic Year 1986-87  1/                       Academic Year 1995-96 21
Milieu       Sex                                                      Level of                Average   Nuber of
Age-Group    Actual        GPR in  Age-Group Enroll. to Additional        Anmual Add'l Enroll.
5-9 Est'd  Enrollees    AY86-87   5-9 Est'd   Naintain  Number of   Increase  per 6PR Point
Population  in AY86-87        CK) Population  86-87 GPR  Enroltees    (86-95)
Urban        BOYs         786         599        76.2Z      1,184         902        303          34          12                              5-
Girls         736        410         55.7X      1,108         617        207          23         11                               I
Rural        Boys       1,128         781        69.2X      1,470       1,018        237          26         15
Girls       1,095         154        14.1X      1,428         201         47           5          14
Urban        Boys       1.914       1,380        72.1X      2,654       1,920        540          60         27
and      Girls        1,831         564       30.8X       2,536        818         254          28         25
Rural-..                                                                .....       .....
Total      3,745        1.944        51.9X      5.190       2.738        794          88         52
1/  Source: See Annex 1 - Table 2.
21  This scenerfo is based on assuwption that the Cross Participation Rate is maintained at the 1966-S7 level.
c:%anxItab6.wk1



Staff Appraisal Report                                          Amex 2 - table I
Sindh Primary Education Development Program                                    Page 1 of 2
Evotution of Pubtic Expenditure on Education by Level and Type fn Pakistan
Between 1975 and 1987
(Figures Expressed in Mitlion Except Otherwise Noted)
S Annual
1975-76   76-77   77-78   78-79   79-80   80-81    81-82   82-83   83-84   84-85   85-86   86-87   87-88   88-89  Increase
1/      11       1/ 1975-198B
IN CURRENT RUPEES
Total Expenditure   2,482.2 2,802.6 3,300.7 3,875.9 4,153.5 4,619.1  5,602.0 6,469.5  7,542.3 10,224.3 12,644.8 14,880.8 17,512.2  21,425             18.0X
By Level
- Primary          767.3   853.1   823.6  1,305.1  1,604.4  1,570.0  1,820.0 2,092.1  2,544.0 3,284.1  3,916.0 4,564.1  5,319.6   6,505           17.9X
- Secro.dary       431.3   577.9   464.7   731.7   820.4   918.8   986.9  1,256.0  1,599.0 2,375.1  2,771.0 3,406.1  4,187.3   5,123              21.01
- Post-Secondary   782.3   866.2  1,312.0  1,280.5  1,403.4  1,491.2  1,937.2 2,360.5 2,642.0 3,367.9 4,268.5 5,014.5 5,896.8   7,218             18.6"
- Other            501.3   305.4   700.4   558.6   325.3   639.1   857.9   760.9   757.3  1,197.2  1,689.3  1,896.1  2,108.5   2,580              13.4X
By Type
- Development      751.1   782.3   855.0  1,067.0  1,060.2  1,240.5  1,687.4  1,941.5  1,715.4  2,446.1  3,255.0 3,712.0 4,233.3   5,134          15.9X
- Recurrent      1,731.1  2,020.3 2,445.7 2,808.9  3,093.3 3,378.6 3,914.6 4,528.0 5,826.9  7,778.2 9,389.8 11,168.8 13,278.9  16,291             18.8X
Deflator (1975-100)   100.00   110.66   120.61   127.26   140.60   155.82   169.97  180.11   197.38  208.87  219.80  231.73  253.39  276.76
IN CONSTANT 1975 RUPEES
Total Expenditure   2,482.2 2,532.5 2,736.7 3,045.8 2,954.1  2,964.5 3,295.8 3,592.0 3,821.3 4,895.0 5,752.8 6,421.7 6,911.2 7,741.4                  9.11
By Levet
- Prifary          p67.3   770.9   682.9  1,025.6  1,141.1  1,007.6  1,070.7  1,161.6  1,288.9  1,572.3  1,781.6  1,969.6 2,099.4  2,350.2         9.01
- Secondary        431.3   522.2   385.3   575.0   583.5   589.7   580.6   697.4   810.1  1,137.1  1,260.7  1,469.9  1,652.5  1,851.0             11.9X
- Post-Secondary   782.3   782.7  1,087.8  1,006.2   998.1   957.0  1,139.7  1,310.6  1,338.6  1,612.4  1,942.0 2,164.0  2,327.2  2,608.1          9.71
- Other            501.3   456.7   580.7   439.0   231.4   410.2   504.7   422.5   383.7   573.2   768.6   818.2   832.1   932.1                   4.9X
By Type
- Devetopment      751.1   706.9   708.9   838.5   754.0   796.1   992.7  1,078.0   869.1  1,171.1  1,48L09  1,601.9  1,670.7 1,855.1              7.2X
- Recurrent      1,731.1  1,825.6  2,027.8  2,207.3  2,200.1  2,168.3 2,303.1  2,514.0 2,952.2 3,723.9 4,271.9 4,819.8  5,240.5 5,886.3            9.9X



Staff Appraisal Report                                            Arnex 2 - Table I
Sindl Primary Education Development Program                                      Page 2 of 2
Evolution of Public Expenditure on Education by Level end Type In Pakistan
Between 1975 and 1987
(Figures Expressed in Nillion Except Otherwise Noted)
1975-76    76-77    77-78    7B-79    79-80    80-81    81-82    82-83   83-84   84-85    85-86    86-87    87-88   88-89
1/       1J        11
DISTRIBUTIONI BY LEVEL AND BY TYPE
By Level
- Primary              31%      30%      252      34%      39%      34%      32X      32X      34X      32%      31%      31%      30%      30%
- Serondary            17%      21%      14%      19%      20%      20X      18%      19X      21X      23X      22%      23%      24%      24%
- Post-Secondary       32%      31%      40X      33%      342      32%      352      36%      35%      33%      342      34X      34%      34X
- other                20%      18%      21%      14X       8%      14%      15%      12%      10%      122      13%      132       122     12%
By Type
-Development           30C      282      26X      28%      262      272      30%      30%      23%      24%      26%      25X      242      24%
- Recurrent            70%      72%      742      72%      742      732      70X      70%      772      76%      742      752      76X      76%
INDEX IN CONSTANT 1975 TERMS (1975 a 100)
Total Expenditure      100.0    102.0    110.3   122.7   119.0   119.4    132.8   144.7   153.9   197.2   231.8   258.7   278.4   311.9                            c
By Level
- Primary           100.0   100.5    89.0   133.7   148.7   131.3   139.5   151.4   168.0   204.9   232.2   256.7   273.6   306.3
- Secondary         100.0   121.1    89.3   133.3   135.3   136.7   134.6   161.7   187.8   263.6   292.3   340.8   383.1   429.2
- Post-SeCondary    100.0   100.1    139.1   128.6   127.6   122.3   145.7   167.5   171.1   206.1   248.2   276.6   297.5   333.4
- Other             100.0    91.1    115.8    87.6    46.2        81.8   100.7    84.3    76.5    114.3   153.3   163.2   166.0   185.9
By Type
- Development       100.0    94.1      94.4   111.6   100.4   106.0   132.2   143.5   115.7   155.9   197.2   213.3   222.4   247.0
- Recurrent         100.0   105.5   117.1   127.5   127.1   125.3   133.0   145.2   170.5   215.1    246.8   278.4   302.7   340.0
If Estfmates.
Source: Government of Pakistan, Economic Survey of Pakistan - 1989.
c:Aanx2tab1.wk1



- 57 -
Staff Appraisal Report                     Amex 2   Table 2
Sindh Primry Education Development Program                Poep  1 of 3
Evolution of Pbthlc Expenditures in Sindh
By Level of Education and Typo of Expenditure
Between 1983 and 1989 1/ 2/
(Figures Expressed in Million Except ae Otherise Noted)
-- ------- Recurrent Expenditures  --------------------------
SU8-SECTOR         1983-84      84-85       85-86       86-87       87-85       88-89
Primary Education        536.2       612.0       639.6    1,061.4      1,196.6    1,507.0
Secondary Education      321.4       383.9       424.5       558.9       708.3       800.9
Teacher Education         32.4        34.5        37.3        43.9        52.8        38.9
Technical Education       26.0        29.6        34.9        39.6        59.4        68.6
College Education         190.0      215.5       237.9       288.9       361.7       358.5
Scholarships               0.0         0.0         0.0         2.6         7.5         7.0
MisceLlaneous              6.1         7.6         9.2        89.3       133.4        34.2
Phys.Ed.. Socia-cultural Activ.
Special Education
Block Provision
Total                   1,112.3    1,283.1     1,383.4    2,084.5    2,519.7    2,815.2
Deflators  3/             1.000      1.045       1.079       1.128       1.233       1.346     1.495
im CONSTANT 1983 R UPES
Primary Education        536.2       585.6       592.5       940.9       970.5     1,119.3
Secondary Education      321.4       367.4       393.2       495.4       574.4       594.9
Teacher Education         32.4        33.0        34.5        38.9        42.8        28.9
Technical Education       26.0        28.3        32.4        35.1        48.2        50.9
College Education        190.0       206.2       220.4       256.1       2  .3       266.3
Scholarships               0.0         0.0         0.0         2.3         6.1         5.2
Miscellaneous              6.1         7.3         8.5        79.2       108.2        25.4
Phys.Ed., Socio-cult       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Special Education          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Block Provision            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Total                   1,112.3    1,227.9    1,281.5    1,847.9    2,043.6    2,090.9
INDEX AT CONSTANT 1983 TERNS (1983 u 100)
Primary Education         100.0      109.2       110.5       175.5       181.0       208.7
Secondary Education       100.0      114.3       122.4       154.2       178.7       185.1
Teacher Education        100.0       101.7       106.5       120.0       132.1        89.0
Technical Education      100.0       108.8       124.3       134.7       185.0       195.7
College Education         100.0      108.5       116.0       134.8       154.4       140.1
Scholarships
Niscellaneous            100,0       118.9       138.3    1,288.0    1,760.0         413.0
Phys.Ed., Socio-cultural Activ.
Special Education
Block Provision
Total                    100.0       110.4       115.2       166.1       183.7       188.0
1/ Source: Governrent of Sindh, Departments of Finance and Education. Recurrent expenditure
data unavailable for FY90.
2/ Includes all sources of finance: e.g. GOSindh, GOP and foreign.
3/ Source: Government of Pakistan: Economic Survey of Pakistan - 1989.



- 58 -
Staff pprail Report                         Anex 2 - Table 2
Sind Primary Education Devetopsmnt Progrin                 Page 2 of 3
Evolution of Publ1c Exparditures In Sind
fy Level of Education and Type of Expenditure
Between 1983 and 1989 1/ 2/
(Figures Expressed in Million Except as Otherwise Noted)
.---.---..       ------Dovelopnent Expenditures  -------------------------
SUB-SECTOR         1983-84       84-85       85-86       86-87       87 88       88-89    89-90 3/
Primary Education          62.2        71.6       240.3       332.4       311.0       308.6        546.0 4/
Secondary Education        49.3        94.2        73.5       117.8       318.0       282.3       230.0
Teacher Education           3.0         8.4        11.1        11.0        11.0         8.1         12.0
Technical Education        12.8        29.3        26.9        25.9        26.2        33.5         37.0
College Education          27.9        41.6        55.4        50.1        41.0        42.5        42.0
Scholarships                5.4         5.4         4.1         0.2         0.2         0.3          0.3
Miscellaneous               2.3         1.8         2.2         3.7         3.2         11.4        13.5
Phys.Ed.. Soclo-cult        2.7         8.0         5.0         1.0         2.0         8.8         12.0
Special Education           0.0         4.7         5.3         4.9         6.0         7.5          8.0
Block Provision             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         2.0          0.0
Total                     165.7       265.0       423.9       547.0       718.6       705.2       900.8
Deflators S/
IN CONSTANT 1983 RUPEES
Primary Education          62.2        68.6       222.6       294.6       252.2       229.2       365.2
Secondary Education        49.3        90.1        68.1       104.4       257.9       209.7        153.8
Teacher Education           3.0         8.0        10.3         9.8         8.9         6.0         8.0
Technical Education        12.8        28.1        24.9        23.0        21.2        24.9        24.7
College Education          27.9        39.8        51.3        44.4        33.3        31.6        28.1
Scholarships                5.4         5.2         3.8         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2
Niscellaneous               2.3         1.7         2.1         3.3         2.6         8.5         9.0
Phys.Ed.. Socio-cult        2.7         7.7         4.6         0.8         1.6         6.5         8.0
Special Education           0.0         4.5         5.0         4.3         4.9         5.6         5.4
Black Provision             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         1.5         0.0
Total                     165.7       253.6       392.6       484.9       582.8       523.8       602.5
INDEX AT CONSTANT 1983 TERMS (1903 * 100)
Primary Education         100.0       110.2       357.8       473.6       405.4       368.4       587.0
Secondary Education       100.0       182.9       138.1       211.8       523.2       425.3       312.1
Teacher Education         100.0       267.9       343.6       325.9       298.2       201.4       267.6
Technical Education       100.0       218.7       193.9       179.1       165.6       194.1        192.8
Ctollege Education        100.0       142.5       183.9       159.2       119.2       113.2        100.7
Scholarships              100.0        95.7        71.1         3.4         3.0         4.0         3.6
Miscellaneous             100.0        71.6        87.8       139.3       109.1       362.7       385.2
Phys.Ed. Soceo-cult       100.0       283.9       170.0        31.2        60.1       241.8        297.3
Special Education
Block Provision
Total                     100.0       153.0       237.0       292.6       351.7       316.1       363.6
.~~~~~~~
1/ Source: Government of Sind, Departments of Finance and Education
2/ Includes all sources of finance: e.g. GOSind, GOP and foreign.
3/ Preliminary data from: Goverment of Sind. Budget Proposal for FY90.
4/ Includes Rps. 256 million from Peopless Works Program.
5/  Source: Government of Pakistan: Economic Survey of Pakistan - 1989.



- 59 -
staff Appraisat Report                      AMex 2   Table 2
Sindh Primary Education Development Program                Page 3 of 3
Evolution of Publ1c Expenditures in Slndh
By Level of Education and Type of Expenditure
Between 1983 and 1989  1/ 2/
(Figures Expressed in Iillion Except as Otheruise Noted)
.                    Total Expenditures  -----------------------------
SUB-SECTOR         1983-84       84-8S       85-86       86-87       87-88       88-89
Primary Education         598.5       683.6       879.9     1,393.7    1,507.6      1,815.7
Secondary Education       370.7       478.1       498.0       676.7     1,026.3     1,083.2
Teacher Education          35.4        42.9        48.4        54.9        63.9        47.0
Technical Education        38.9        58.9        61.8        6s.5        85.6       102.1
College Education         217.9       257.1       293.3       339.0       402.7       401.1
Scholarships                5.4         5.4         4.1         2.8         7.7         7.3
Miscellaneous               8.5         9.4        11.4        93.0       136.5        45.6
Phys.Ed., Soio-cult         2.7         8.0         5.0         1.0         2.0         8.8
Special Education           0.0         4.7         5.3         4.9         6.0         7.5
Block Provision             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         2.0
Total                   1,277.9     1,548.1     1,807.3     2,631.5    3,238.2      3,520.3
Deflators 3/              1.000       1.045       1.079       1.128       1.233        1.346
IN CONSTANT 1983 RUPEES
Primary Education         598.5       654.2       815.2     1,235.5     1,222.8     1,348.5
Secondary Education       370.7       457.6       461.3       599.9       832.4       804.5
Teacher Education          35.4        41.0        44.9        48.7        51.8        34.9
Technical Education        38.9        56.4        57.3        58.1        69.4        75.9
College Education         217.9       246.0       271.7       300.5       326.6       297.9
Scholarships                5.4         5.2         3.8         2.5         6.2         5.4
Miscellaneous               8.5         9.0        10.6        82.4       110.7        33.9
Phys.Ed., Socio-cuLt        2.7         7.7         4.6         0.8         1.6         6.5
Special Education           0.0         4.5         5.0         4.3         4.9         5.6
Block Provision             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         1.5
Total                   1,277.9     1,481.5     1,674.2     2,332.8     2,626.4     2,614.6
INDEX AT CONSTANT 1983 TERMS (1983 * 100)
Primary Education         100.0       109.3       136.2       206.4       204.3       225.3
Secondary Education       100.0       123.4       124.4       161.8       224.6       217.1
Teacher Education         100.0       115.8       126.6       137.4       146.2        98.6
Technical Education       100.0       145.1       147.3       149.4       178.6       195.2
College Education         100.0       112.9       124.7       137.9       149.9       136.7
Scholarships
hiscellaneous             100.0       105.8       124.4       971.1     1,304.5       399.1
Phys.Ed., Socio-cultural Activ.
Special Education
Block Provision
Total                *    10U.0       115.9       131.0       182.5       205.5       204.6
1/ Source: Goverrnnent of Sindh, Departments of Finance and Education
2/ Includes all sources of finance: e.g. GoSindh, GOP and foreign.
3/ Source: Government of Pakistan: Economic Survey of Pakistan - 1989.



~.  * m  -
-~ ~~ *          :
.
2              ,'8 
*                   _               .          _           _                          _.             *     4
.*                -i    p_            '.                   -. -S 48s                                 ,
*                                                 -                                                  4     4           
2_                       ft   3              .                                       v9t,
:                - d                                                          
*                2 |*                       U                                     
*                   4                                   f         
:                                              w                                     .:0
:   ffi                    w '                                                      :~~~~~~~~w .s L    :5
''      58                                     0     5.4             00-*t      
*                               9                                -                                   .0  .  .



- 61-                                   Antae    3
Page 2 of 6
SIION PRINIRY ED TION DEWLWIIt PROGR"M
..............................  .............................I..................................------------------------........------------------......------------I I
OBJECTIVE/SUM-OJECYIVE  |                       INEAS                |       INDICATORS/TRGETS        | ACTIONS TAKEN/RESJIRE  IBY OIVT
.. .                   ....                                                                 . ..................................
*2. Incentives to        | CI)   Change priery school academic       | Reded dropout nd start of     Action agreed.  lptleent by
Ilprove enrollment           V yer to begin an Augut 1  wd end   a * re regular and punctual    A Y 1990-91 and evalute by
and Retention.               on Nay 31. nd initially In 3        | pattern of school attendance     Jure. 1992.
|      districts  eperimnt with flexiblel by poils and teachers.
chool hours/calendar to suit locat 
conditiom  in two districts.
(1I)  Initially in 3 districts.            Redcd repetition  nd           | Introdeue at start of £19041.
betwen grades 1-3 inclusive.          nrroed       cohort In grade.   w d evaluate by June 1992.
allow autotic prom otIon eprt
from exceptional cases.
| (Mi) Initially in 3 districts,             Redecd cost of schooling to  | Introduce a start of A190-91,
Abolish school uniform requiremont i  poor parents.                    ard evaluate by  uwn  1992.
In rural areas.                    I                                I
| (iv)  Introduce a carefully designed and | Full coverage of about 75        Caeplete base-line survey in
rmanitorable pilot nutrition progral schools between July.            one district coapleted in
as an incentive to pupits  and      I 1990 and June 1992.             1989. Prepare lipltentation
their parents.                       Neasurable declirne in           plan by March 31, 1990. Begin
malnutrition  ihproved school  i aplementation in July, 1990.
participation  nd achievement |
maosnst recipients. 
(v)  Provide annual scholarship schem e    Increased enrollment of rural   Provide 1.500 scholarships p.a.
|      of RslOO/month for rural girls who | girls in secondary school.        for up to 5 years duratien per
coaplete grade S to enable thea to I                                I child.
coaplete secondary education.       | 
. -  I    I



- 62 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
SIMON PRIINRY EDUCATION  EVELOP         PROSAN
...........................................-----------------------------------------  ----------...........--------------------.............. I.  ... ... ...  .......--------------.I----------------.. ......... ...
OBJECTIVE/SUS-OBJECTIVE  |                         EANS                          INDICATORS/TARGETS          ACTIONS TAKEN/REQUIRED BY GOVT
D.  IMIPROVE DELIVERY OF  |                                              |                                 |
PRINARtY EDCTION.   |                                                |                                 |
S1. Recruitment.             (i)   Locatlie primry teaceMr                                                 | Actior agreed.  Implementation
motivation VW                  recrultmnt in rural areas at          I                                 I in proress.
retention of          I        taltuWunion council level and 
teachers.             |        post near how.
i1)  Increase ge limits for  nmaw            Reentry of quatified oleIr        Action agreed.  Iaplmentation
I       entry/re-entry into primry school t  teachers.                           i in prograe.
|       teaching from 1  to 45yers. y 
| (Mii) Prmit Engagement of local retired I                                     | Action agreed.  Ieplementation
persons as teachers on contract                                          i in progress.
basis.
I          ~I                                                        I
(iv)  Where girts' school has remained       Reduced ruaers of closed         I Action agreed.  lrplementation
closed  or oporttmities exist to  I girls schools                        i in progress.
open village schoot without
qualtified teacher being available
;       recrult female teacher with lower
-educational   qualifications, at
|       lower initial salary(e.g.8PS 7) .  |                                    |
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                I
(v)   Give preference to qualified          I Selection of  suervisors        I Action agreed.  I,plemsntatfon
primary school teachers for            f from  ranks of primary school  I in proress.
!       promotion/recrultment to SPE.         I teachers e
(vi)  Expend coverage and scope of           Availability, Inter alla of    i lmpleent ania' program,
system of recognition and reward        prizeu. advance  increments,    starting in AY 1990-91.
I       for outstanding primary school t        rapid promotions and other
j       teachers                              I linentives.
---------- --------- --------- ---------      ------- ------- ------- ------    ------- -------
II.I... ...  .......... ...............  ......... .............  ........I.....  ... .. ... ..



- 63 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
SINDN PRIIUY EDUCAtION DEVELOPlENI PRO"RN
.. .. . ... ... .. . ... I... .. . ..    --- - --- -- --- ---- - --- -  ----- -- - ---- - -- -      ------------------------
OBJECTIfE/SM-OSJECTIVE                         lEANS               |       INDICATORS/TARGETS       ACTIONS TAKENIREWJIRED SY GOV'T
*-                                          * * - -   I .......*.... *-*                            ---*-----*-*-I---I------------
n2. Training ad         |()   Increase output of new teachers by   About 1.600 new teachers per  | Coeplete lplteentation by the
Supervision of      I       devoting the OCETs to pro-service   y yar.                          start of AY 1992-93.
Teachers            I       training ud by capleting the      |                               |
district-level network of colleges
as currently ptmed.
(if)  Allow qualified persmns working In  P Nore faculty with relevant    | Amend regulations by December
the primry eidcation sector to    I experience.                     31  1991.
compete for all GCET faculty
positiis.                         I                               I
I                                         I                               I
| (Mii) Curricutus Bureau in collaboration   A bout 8.000 teachers trained     lopleent in selected
|      with DEOs to implemnt pilot          In pilot progrm by end of AY   districts between AT 90-91 and
in-service trainirg ptan using Lis  91-92. Evaluation coapleted  | 91-92. Evaluate in AY 91-92
|      in 2 districts which wiLl use        f for replication in other    | and replicate in succeeding
|      existing trainers and facilitlos.  | districts by the end of AY    | school years.
Progrm will atso liprove and        91-92. Thereafter about
|      standardize existing LN student      12,000 teachers trained
achievemnt tests and apply them     amualty.                      |
In the 2 districts.               I                               I
|iv) set iwp steering committee to        Anmuat progress report.       | Provide first report by 30
supervise pilot in-service        I                               I Septeuer1 1991.
training progrem.                 I                               I
Cv)  Review role of Supervisors and     | Completed review.             | Coplete study by June 1991
|      impltemnt workshops with focus on  |                                and lplement recommendations
|      in-service training. and           I                               | by Jurw 1992.
|      motivation of teachers.            I                               I
(vi) Provide mbitlity to SPEs.            A bout 50 jeeps and 485         Procure vehicles.
motorcycles.                  I
I                                         I   ,I



- 64 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
SIMON PRIIARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PRORM
.............................................-------------------------.----------------    ------------------------------..................  .....................------------------------..................  ..............-...
OBJECTIVE/SUB-OBJECTIVE                             EAMS                 I       INDICATS/TARGETS          I ACTIONS TAKEi/REQUIRED BY CWV'T
.........................  -----------------------------------------............. ............. .....................  ...... ...........  ....... .......  ....   ----------------   -----------------------
S3. loprove planming,    I                                               I
management and        I                                              I                                 I
implementation.                                                     I                                  I
(i) Create effective   (i)   Appoint Additional Education              Improved planming, and more   | Job descriptions agreed.
Plaming and                    Secretary (Pleming 8                  I effective and efficient           An incwubent has been appointed
Coordination                   Coordination)                         I Icplnentation capacity.
capacity in                                                          I                                 I
Education             |ii)  Create new DS (coordination) to    | Inprovd ptlming, and more   | Job descriptions agreed.
Secretariat.          |        coordinate all agencies                o effective and efficient        I Complete reorganization by
responsible for primary edcation    implementation capacity.            I December 31. 1990.
develtapnt.                          I                                  I
(iii) Create an additional SO post for   I lIproved planing, and more   I Job descriptions agreed.
Disbursements and reorganize exist-I effective and efficient            I Complete reorganization by
irg positions for Budgets and        I implementation capacity.          D Oecei*er 31, 1990.
Accounts, Monitoring and Evatuationl
Statistics and imptementation.
(ii) Establish        |i)   Reorganize ADs, DDs & Assistant    | Improved plaming, and more              N Mew organization and job
distinct management  |         Directors to provide separate         I effective ard efficient         j descriptions agreed. Complete
focus for primary    I         focus on primary * secondary         | implementation capacity.           reorganization by Decea bIr 31,
education at          I        education.                            I                                  I 1990.
divisional level.    I                                               I                                 I
(iM) Establish        | (i)   Redefine ADEO duties and delegated | Improved ptaming, and more            N weu organization and job
distinct manraement  |         poers to give post main                 effective and efficient         I descriptions agreed. Complete
focus for primary              respansibility for primary             implementation capacity.         I reorganization by December 31,
education at          I        edication at district level.          I                                 I 1990.
district level.       I                                              I                                 I
I (ii)  Redefine SDEOs, SPEs & LCs               Improved plarming, and more     Mew organization and job
|       relationship to incorporate now         effective and efficient         I descriptions agreed. Complete
|       ADEO role and define responi-         | implementation capacity.        I reorganization by Decerber 31,
bility for PE at all levels.                                              19°0.
(iv) Strengthen       I Ci)   Improve data collection end            I Effective data coltection,        Reporting system for data
program pluming and |          analysis.                             I school pluming and program    I cotlection, investment
monitoring capacity.                                                                                     m |  I monitoring and physical
| (ii)  Strengthen investment programing  j monitoring A evaluation             | implementation prepared.
I       and monitoring.                       I systems.                        I
(v) Improve             (i)   Involve suitabte specialist train-   About 100 staff trained duringl Outline agreement reached with
manag&Aent skilts of |         ing agencies (Education Extension  I first two years of program.          N MIPA. Enpge hIPA by September
key staff.                     Center with NIPA) in needs            | Thereafter about 100 staff    I 30, 1990.
analysis, design and                 I trained per year.
Implementation of magement
training for PCW. PAN Cell,
Directorate staff, DEOs and SDEOs.
.                            ------*----*----*-*--I.*.*-*-*-*---------*--------------I-----*----------.-----------------*----I.-*-*----



- 65 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
SINON PRIMRY EDLCTION DEVELOIMT PROGXM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ @-o...........................----------------------................  .....................------....------------------------------,,,  , .......-------------------------------............
OBJECTIVE/SU-SJECTIVE                                NEAS                   |       IUDICATORS/TARTS           | ACTIONS TAXEN/REWIIRED BY *rOT
.........................  ----------------------............. I- .............................  ..............................  ------------------------................. I-..................
C.  IMPROVE STWENT
ACNIEVEEVMt            |                                               |                                   |
Cl. lIrprove quality,         (i)   lmprove durebility.                      Lrngr proxhct life. 
pr2duction &
distribution of
Learning Mockiles.    |ii)  Lower unit prouction costs.                |                                   | Ceptetive tendering
procedLres agreed.
(iii) Bind mdules into 11 subject based I Irproved usability. 
I       voluses.                               I                                   I
(iv)  Distribute to all primary schools    Introjiction and use in atl t           Plan agreed for improved
in province.                           I schools in Sind for teaching  I prouetlon. testing and
of languages, maths, science      province-wide distribution.
and socisl studies.
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
!--------- --------------------------------1  --------------------------- -....1 -............................
I                                 ~~~~~~~I                             I
CZ. Iaprove quality,        | C)   Upgrade physical production               Grester durability.                 Provide subsidy to STUB to
urabillty  and         I        specifications.                        |                                   | maintain current textbook price
availability of        I                                               |                                   |
textbooks snd          ! C)  Ixove textbook content.                   | Improved text quality and         | Pilot test all new primary
sppLemaentary                                                            t  m learng                         education mawuacripts prior to
reading materials.                                                     I                                   I pablication (about 30 p.s.).
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I               I
(fii) lamrove cost/performance ratios of                                           Coetetive tenderinr
-       completed products.                    I                                   I procojares agreed.
I                                              I                                   I
(Iv)  Provide free set of textbooks to         F Free books distributed to         Complete evaluation of textbook
all rural girls enrolled In gradet   330,000 rural girls arnually    policy, including impact of
1-5.                                           by 1995I                            free textbook distribution on
|                                              |                                   | enrollment, by June 30, 1993.
I (v)   Provide suplep mntary reading             Allocation of RstOCO to          | Cplete evaluation
materials to all primary schools   | schools with enrollment less  | by Jure 30, 1992.
in three distriets end evaluate    | then 500; and RsaZ00 to              |
their use for possible repileation    a larger schools. 
In all districts.                                                         |
.. ... ... ....,,,,,   ,,   ,,,,                                           I --------------------------I
O2-Feb-90



Staff Appraisal Report
Sindh Primry Educaticn Development Progran                          Annox 4 - Table I
Page 1 of 2
Projection of Primary Schooling Enrollment
Between 1987-88 and 1995-96
(Figures Expressed In Thousand Except Otherwise Noted)  Niwber of  AdditionaL Nuber of
School      Private Urban Places
Places to  Needed to Restore
X Anmual                                                          Be          Urban Enrollments In
...         Actual I/  -----------Growth     -.................      Projected ------------------- Cconstructed 1995-96 to Level of
NiLleu  Gender 81-82 82-83 83-84 84-85 85-86 86-87 81-86    87-88 88-89 8W90 90-91 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95 95-96    under PEDP  1986-87
ENROLLMENT AT PRINARY LEVEL 2/ 3/
Urban      Boys   515 540    553    SB5    597  599      3      617  635   654   674   691  709    m         744    762      88            130
Girls  338  357  382   410   415  410         4      426 443   461   479   491   503  514   526    538            59             73
Total   853   897  935   994  1012  1008      3X    1042  1078  1115  1153  1182  1212  1241  1270  1300         147            203
Rural      Boys   517   528  640   645   723  781        9X     828   853   879  905  952   999  1046  1093  1140          235
Girls   87   91   126   121   138  154    12X         163   169   176  183  214   245 277   308  339             156
Total   604  619   766   766  861   935       9X     991  1023  1055  1088  1166  1245  1323  1401  1479         391
TOTAL      Boys  1032  1068  1194  1230  1320  1380    6X    1445  1488  1533  1579  1644  1708  1773  1837  1902          323
Girls  425   448   508   530   553   563      6X     589   612  637  662  705   748   791   834  877             215
Total  1458  1516  1701  1760  1873  1943     61    2034  2101  2170  2241  2349  2456 2564 2672 2779            538
Of Which:
NosqAe     Boys    NA    NA    75    76   114   ¶67
Schools  Girls    MA    NA    33    33    47   60
....................................
Total    NA    MA   108   110   160   227
Private    Boys   NA    MA    MA   130   139   183
Schools  Girls    MA    NA    MA   155   137   149
....................................
totat   MA    MA   MA   284   276  332



Staff Appraisal Report                        Annex 4 - Table 1
Sindh Primary Educstion Developen  Program                   Pae 2 of 2
Projection of Primary Sdwoling Fnrottment
Between 198t-88 and 1995-96
(Figures Expressed in Thousand Except Otherwise Noted)
X AnuiaL
-- ------ Actual IJ  -------/---Growth        --.-----------.-.      Projected------------------
Milieu  Gender 81-82 82-83 83-84 84-85 85-86 86-87 81-86    87t88 88-89 89-90 90-91 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95 95-96
ESTIIATED POPULATION (AGE-GRaJP 5-9) 4/
Urban      Boys  630  658  688   719  752   786          5      822 859898   938   981  1025  1071  1120  1170
Girts  589   616  644   673   704   736    5X        770  805   841   880   9Z0   962  1005  1051  1099
Total  1219  1274  1332  1392  1456  1522     5X    1591  1663  1739  1818  1900  1987 2077 2171  2270
Rural      Boys  976  1004  1034  1064  1096  1128    3X    1161  1195  1230  1266  1304  1342  1381  1422  1464
Girls  946   974  1003  1033  1063  1095    3X    1128  1161  1195  1231  1267  1305  1344  1384  1425
Total  1922  1978  2037  2097  2159  2223     32    2289 2356  2426  2497 2571  2647  2725  2806 2889
GROSS PARTICIPATION RATE (in percentage) S/
Urban      Boys   822   822   80X   81X   792   76X  -12         75X   742   732   722  712  690   68X   662   65X
Girls   572  5U    S9X   612   592   56X  -1X        552   552   55X   54X   532   522  51X   502   492
Total    702   702   702   71X   692   66X   -12      66X   652   64X   63X   622   612   60X  59X   57X
Rural      Boys   532   532   622   612   662   692    62        712   712   712   71X   732   742  762   772   782
Girts    92   9X   132   122   132   142    92         142   15X   152   15X   17X   192  212   222   242
Totat   312  31X   382   372   402  422    62         432  432   432   442   452   47X   492   502   51X
Province-wide:     46X   472   50s   s50    522   522    2X      52X   52X   522   52X   532   532   532   542   54X
Public Schools
Only:             I NA    NA    MA    422   44X   43
I/  Last evailable data on enrolaent is for AY1986-87. Detailed figures  ay not add up to totals becwse of rourdings.
2V  Source: Bureau of Statistics, Plaminng and Develomnt Department, Goernwent of Sind: School E&dcation Statist'es in Sirdh (1984-85. 1986-86 and
1986-87); Directorate of School Education, Karachi Region: Educational Perspective 1987 and Facts wd Figures 1v88-1989.
3/ Data do not includs enrollents tn uaigistered private schootls, Aich have grown rapidly in recent years. Date on thEse enrotlawnts are unavailable.
4/ Source: Bureau of Statisties, Plamning nd Development Department, Goverrwent of Sindh: Sindh Population Statistics. April 1986: Nission estites.
Note: Population estimtes for  ge-groWp 5-9 coputed by mitieu and by sex on the bssis of 1981 Census figures at district level nd groth rates bv
milieu.
5/ The Gross Participation Rate is defined as the proportion of the age cohort (5-9) utich is in schooL  The data Include over wd wde-ae  hildran
and repeaters.
c:\anx4tabl .wk



- 68 -
Ainnex 4 - Table 2
Staff Appraisal Report
Sindh Primary Education Developent Program
Anual Teacher Requirements and
Incremental Recurrent Costs
(Figures Expressed In Thousand Except as Otherwise Noted)
Milieu     Gender 90-91  91-92  92-93  93-94 94-95 95-96         Total
Urban        Nate    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.1    1.1       6.4
Female    1.3    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2       7.1
....     .... .   ----   ----.  ----   ---- .  ----..... ... ...... .
Total    2.3    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.3    2.3      13.5
Rural        Nale    1.8    2.3    2.4    2.4    2.5    2.5       13.9
Female   0.5    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3        6.5
.... ----. ----   ---- .. ......    .. ....    .....    ----
Total    2.2    3.4    3.5    3.6    3.7   3.9       20.4
Total        Mate    2.8    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.6    3.6      20.2
Female    1.8    2.2    2.3    2.4    2.5    2.5      13.7
_-=                         -           f=   =  =
TOTAL    4.6    5.6    5.7    5.9    6.0    6.2      33.9
Incremental
Recurrent Costs   98.5  120.4  123.6  126.9  130.2  133.5    733.1
(Re million)
Source: Mission Estimates.
Note: Teacher requirements and incremental recurrent costs are based on
the follouing assurptions:
(a) pupil:teacher ratios are estimated at 50:1 In urban boys' schools,
and 40:1 in urban and rural girls' schools and rural boys schools;
(b) recurrent costs estimates are based on an average salary of 21,624 Re
per year (mid-point of Basic Public Service Grade 7) multiplied by a
coefficient of 1.7 for allowances and benefits; and,
(c) attrition rates for teachers are estimated at 7X and 5X p.s. for
female and male teachers, respectively.
c:\anx4tab2.wk1



- 69 -
Staff Appralsal Report                        ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
Slndh Primary Education Devotopoent Progran            .---------
Technicat Assistance Sumary
Experts    ---          ---      Fetllowships   ---
Total                             Totat
Subject                    No. Months    Staff-Months        No. Nonths    Staff-Months
...................~....  ....... ..  ........        ....  .. ..    .............
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
............... .................... 
Directorate of               1        3           3           3         1           3
Education Engineering
Works
TEACHER TRAINING &
SUPERVISION
esfign, Implement and       4         3          12           16        1          16
Evaluate Pilot
In-Service Teacher
Training Program
Achievement Testing                                           2         3           6
Study of role of            2         6          12           2         3           6
SPEs/LCs
~. ..............      ...     ------                            ..           ..
Subtotal Teacher            6         9          24          20         7          28
Training and
Supervision
PRIMARY EDUCATION
MANAGEMENT
PLan, Prepare, Deliver       I       18          l8
and Evaluate Pilot
Programs.
Management Training                                          27         2          54
(Overseas)
Subtotal Primary             1       18          18          27         2          54
Education management



- 70 -
Staff Appraisl Report                        ANNEX S
Page 2 of 2
S;ndh Primary Education Doelopment Program
Technical Assistance Sumiary
---     Experts    ---          ---      Felltsthips   ...
Total                            Total
Subject                    No. Months    Staff-Months       No.  onths    Staff-Months
. ......................   .._._........  .......           .........      .........
BOOKS & SUPPLEMENTARY
MATERIALS
Design/ Itlustration        6        2          12
Maths/Science Editorial     6        2          12
English Language            6        2          12
Editorial
Pilot Testing               2        3           6
Production Nanagement                                        5       12          60
Printing                                                     2       12          24
Graphic Design                                               2       12          24
EditoriaL                                                    5       12          60
Evaluation of Books         4        3          12
Policy
Contingency                 4        1           4
_ . _   . _  _   _   . _  _-  --  ...         --           ..      --          ..
Subtotal Books &           28       13          58          14                  168
Supp. Materials
TOTAL STAFF MONTHS                             103                              253
(Total Staff Years)                            8.6                             2111



- 71 -
Annex 6
Pa&2 I of 6
A PILOT SCHOOL UUTRITIO PROORAN
1.          Although data on the nutritional status of rural primary school
age children in Sindh are lacking, the situation for this target age group
can be inferred from recent national and provincial surveys of pro-school
children. The pilot nutrition program also has secondary target groups:
younger siblings, some of whom may attend the school and be included in the
direct feeding; and those at home who might benefit from increased food
availability at home. An increased understanding of the importance of
nutrition would also result from the pilot program.
National Nutrition Surveys
2.          National nutrition surveys were conducted in 1965/66 (Nutrition
Survey of West Pakistan), 1976/77 (Micro-nutrient Survey), and 1985/87
(National Nutrition Survey). The surveys show that the scope and severity
of protein-energy malnutrition and anaemia has been essentially unchanged
over the past 10 years. Province-specific data from the most recent survey
show that in Baluchistan only 271 of the children are normally nourished,
in NWFP 31X, in Sindh 361, and in Punjab 491.
Recent Nutrition Survevs and Proiects in Sindh
3.          1984 data (Table 1) included in the UNILCEF nutrition analysis
of women and children in Pakistan (1987/88) show that rural Sindh has child
nutrition problems second only to Baluchistan. A 1988 weight by age survey
(Table 2) shows the degree of malnutrition in low-income areas of Karachi.
The distribution pattern of malnutrition among oral children in Sindh is
indicated in weight by age data from Thatta (Tables 3 - 5), where about 301
of the children in the 0-5 age group were surveyed. These may be the
relatively better off children whose parents responded to the request by
Community Health Workers to weigh children. In respect of school-age
children, a 19&6-87 survey of about 17,400 children in Karachi by the Aga
Khan Health Service found that 201 out of those examir"d suffered from
varying degrees of malnutrition.
4.          A recent UNICEF "Save The Children" project in the Thar desert
provided modest but systematic child feeding based on local foods. Parents
quickly understood the importance of iLproved nutrition in improving the
health and liveliness of their children. Some 841 of the malnourished
children under 5 years old participating in an AgA Khan University
(AK)IGOSindh nutrition program in Thatta (Table 5) improved within two



- 72 -
Annex 6
Pag2 2 of 6
months, with child feeding advice from Community Health Workers (mostly
elderly, illiterate women with 15 days training) as the sole input. The
Thatta project focusses on: (a) involving the local community in
understanding and acting on nutrition education; and (b) the use of local
foods for the child nutrition programs.
Table 1: WHO Infant Feeding Survey - 1984
Distribution of Sample According to Weight for Age
(Percentages rounded off)
NWFP  Punjab    Sindh   Sindh Baluchistan
Rural     Rural  Urban
Slums
Over 90X of standard          281    36X         161    371     16X
90-75X of standard          441    411         311    391     331
75-601 of standard          221    171         361    181     311
Less than 601 of st.           61      61        171     71     201
Table 2: Nutritional status of children 0-5 years in Urban Sindh
Number Percentage
Normal                        2,832       52
1st degree malnutrition       1,961       36
2nd degree malnutrition         511       10
3rd degree malnutrition          98        2
Table 3: Nutritional status of children 0-5 years in Rural Sindh
Number Percentage
Normal                          305       57
1st degree malnutrition        137        26
2nd degree malnutrition         59        11
3rd degree malnutrition         32         6



- 73 -
Annex 6
aI 3 of 6
Table 4: Nutritional Status by Sex of the Malnourished Children Table 3
Female Male
Number observed                259      275
Number malnourished            127      101
Percentage                      49       37
Table 5: Improvement in weight between two weighings of 1-2 Months interval
(Home vislts by Community Health Workers between weighings)
Tot.    Norm.    1st      2nd     3rd
% whose weight improved        84       82       87       80      95
% whose weight declined        11       11        7       17       5
I whose weight unchanged        5        6        6        2       0
B. The Pilot Nutrition Proaram
5.          The objectives of the pilot nutrition program are to:
(a)   Increase enrollment, retention, regular attendance and learning
by girls and boys;
(b)   Improve the nutritional status of the students and younger
siblings; and
(c)   Increase parental and community awareness of the importance of
child nutrition through local (school-level) community
management of the program.
6.          ImplementatL  would be based on the following:



- 74 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
(a)   Use of locally available foods wherever possible.  The most
nutritious and least costly combinations will be decided after
surveys (para. 7.a), and included in program design. Foods
such as biscuits, which are often not nutritious, and encourage
bad food habits, would be avoided.
(b)   Local (school or Union Council level) management of the local
program;
(c)   Program design and management based on facts obtained through
professionally conducted field surveys;
(d)   Implementation by well - established NGOs in three accessible
areas in rural Sindh: Thatta; Badin; and Tharparkar.
(e)   The number of participating schools would be about 75,
depending on the final results of the surveys (para. 7.a),
project design, training and annual monitoring in the above
districts. About 10,000 children would be included.
(f)   Overall program administration would be the responsibility of
the Education Department and its field staff. A suitably
qualified NGO or NGOs would be contracted to manage the
program. Funds would be dispersed to the NGO or NGOs by the
AESPC and would be audited in accordance with government
regulations.
7.          There would be three phases:
(a)   Phase I (March 1989 to July 1990): The initial NORAD funded AKU
survey in the Thatta district (para. 8) will be completed by
December 1989, and a detailed implementation plan will be
prepared by March, 1990. The plan will include inter-alia,
base-line data on current nutritional and health status,
details of program management, the monitoring and evaluation
instruments, detailed cost estimates and replication plans for
Badin and Tharparkar districts. During this phase, an advisory
committee with participation from the GOSindh Education and
Health Departments would be established. Between March and
July, 1990, the plans will be agreed with COSindh, IDA, and
NORAD.
(b)   Phase II (July 1990 to June 1992): Pilot program
implementation, and quarterly monitoring of the school-
children.
(c)   Phase-III (July 1992 to June 1995): After 2 years of operation,
there would be an evaluation to determine success in the
following areas; local program management, food handling and
preparation, cost, impact on school attendance and retention as
well as changes in enrollment pattern, impact on learning and



-75 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
impact on nutritional status. This evaluation would be carried
out jointly by IDA, NORAD and GOSindh. Program
continuation/expansion would be depend on the outcome of the
evaluation.
The AKU survey in Thatta
8.          Since February 1989, NORAD has been funding the preparation by
the AKU's Department of Community Health Sciences of the school nutrition
program in Thatta district to be funded by the PEDP. The AKU has developed
a rigorous survey methodology (para. 9), with close professional
supervision involving both the AKU staff and local school and health
personnel. Efforts have been made to ascertain the local community's view
about local program management. The local health, school and census bureau
staff, as well as community leaders, have played a key role in the surveys.
The survey team's work in the villages has had an imediate impact in
raising the level of awareness of the importance of nutrition and schooling
in the local community. The work on this first survey of about 2,500
children, of which about 70X are of school-going age, has resulted in
improved instruments and approaches and methods applicable to future
surveys. Based on the work undertaken by the AKU in Thatta, it is likely
that the AKU will also carry out the surveys, program design, training and
help to local communities in organizing program and school-level monitoring
in the three pilot districts.
9.       The AKU survey and program preparation in Thatta includes the
following:
(a)         enrollment data by sex, age, etc.;
(b)         nutritional status of the school children and their
younger siblings, measured by weight-for-height and
skinfold thickness;
(c)         types and price of food (cereals, fruits, vegetables,
fish, etc) available at different seasons;
(d)         local feeding and food habits;
(e)         the views of the villagers, parents, teachers, local
leaders and local staff, on how best such a school
feeding program could be implemented for the maximum
benefit to the children;
(f)         program design at the school and Union Council level,
taking into account survey results, and the roles of
teachers, local leaders/union council members etc.;
(g)         development of local training, focussing on the following
(as well as on outcomes of the surveys): (i) local
organization and management; (ii) hygienic food



- 76 -
Annex 6
Page 6i of6
handling/food preparation (what to serve raw, how to get
maximum value out of local foods, soaked/fried "gram",
for example); and, (iii) simple accounting;
(h)         quarterly monitoring of the following indicators:  (i)
enrollment/ retention/regular attendance, especially of
girls; (ii) height/weight of students/siblings; (iii)
parental attitude changes, and other relevant items
emerging from the surveys.
10.      Student achievement tests developed under PEP2 would be used to
establish the baseline and to monitor any improvements during the nutrition
program.



- 77 -
Annex 7
Zag2 I of 2
REVIEW OF THE ROLE OF SUPERVISORS/LEARNING COORDINATORS
Backgron
1.          The Supervisors of Primary Education (SPEs) and Learning
Coordinators (LCs) have an important role as the first-line pedagogical
advisers to primary teachers in the Sindh. The LCs appointed in the eight
districts included in PEP2 are now complemented in the other 8 districts by
SPEs. These supervisors will play an essential role in the effective
introduction of measures designed to improve student achievement.
2.          The PEDP is introtucing an array of measures to improve
achievement which will impact on the classroom teacher. These include: the
improved provision of textbooks and classroom materials; the progressive
introduction of supplementary reading materials; the Learning Modules (UMs) to
assist the teaching of key curriculum concepts; and achievement testing.
Making effective use of these inputs will require new knowledge and skills of
teachers, especially in the areas of lesson preparation and classroom
organization and management. For this reason in-service training is emphasized
in the PEDP, to help teachers assimilate these new inputs. The SPEs/LCs will            r
be the backbone of this program. They know classroom conditions intimately and
can ensure that the new inputs are introduced effectively.
3.          The PEDP also seeks to introduce incentives and administrative
measures to facilitate the deployment and retention of female teachers in
rural areas where the majority of supervisors work. The SPEs/LCs will have an
important role in monitoring these efforts.
Obiective of Review
4.          The Review of the role of SPEs/LCs will seek to maximize their
potential by: a) appraising (by means of field observation and interviews)
their current skills, knowledge and work patterns and conditions; b) in this
light, assessing their training needs for the inputs described in para. 2; and
c) designing and implementing short training programs (about three one-week
sessions) to meet the identified training needs. The review and training needs
assessment will focus on a 10 per cent sample of supervisors of LCs and SPEs.
All SPEs/LCs in the 16 districts will attend the training programs.
Management and Implementation
5.          The Curriculum Bureau will manage and implement the program. A
steering committee representative of school district management, the teacher
training colleges and the AIOU will provide guidance. This would be the same
committee which would supervise the development of the pilot in-service
teacher training program (main text para. 68). The PEDP would support TA to



- 78 -
Annex 7
,                                       P~~~~~~~~~~age 2 of2
design field surveys, conduct training workshops and for evaluation (para.7),
as well as operating and training costs.
6.          The review and training needs assessment will be conducted in Year
1 of the PEDP so that the results can be utilized for the preparation of the
pilot in-service training program for teachers (in which SPEs/LCs in the pilot
program area will assist). These SPEs/LCs will participate in the staff
development workshops which will be conducted in Year 2 of the PEDP.
Technical Assistance
7.          About 12 staff-months of TA would be provided by one specialist in
education administration and one specialist in the pedagogical supervision of
primary teachers with experience in the conduct of qualitative, field
research. The specialists would: a) conduct a field survey of a 10 sample of
SPEs/LCs and assess their training needs (Year 1); b) design workshops for
supervisors (Year 1) and assist in and evaluate their implementation (Year 2);
and c) train staff in the Bureau to carry out follow up surveys.. The PEDP
would also support six staff-months of overseas fellowships for Bureau staff
to review educational administration and primary school supervision in analog
countries.
MonitorinZ and Evaluation
8.          The Bureau will prepare a report on the results of the field study
and on the training program design (Year 1) and a progress report on the
implementation of the workshops (Year 2). During Years 3 and 4, the Bureau
will conduct a follow-up studv of the sample of supervisors.



- 79 -
Annex 8
Page I of 9
PLANNING, NAN&GENENT AND IMPLENENTATION
Introd"ction
1.          The rapid increase in the size and complexity of the primary
education sector in Sindh in recent years is placing heavy demands on the main
agencies involved in policy, planning, coordination and implementation. This
annex describes how these functions would be strengthened in the PEDP.
The Current Administrative System.
2.          Figure 1 below shows the current and planned organization of
primary education provincial, divisional and district levels. The key
features of the current system are:
(a)   The division in role between the Education Secretariat and the
technical and geographical directorates -- the staff-line division
at the heart of civil service organization in Pakistan. The
Secretariat -- the Education Secretary, additional secretaries,
deputy secretaries and section officers - is responsible for
coordinating and directing departmental affairs and for advising
the Minister. The technical and geographical directorates
(Curriculum Bureau, DEEW, Divisional Education Offices etc) are
responsible for implementing ministerial policies and decisions,
as well as for professional advise and guidance.
(b)   The functions of the technical directorates are self-explanatory,
as are those of the examination boards. The Sindh Education
Department includes two Project Implementation Units -- for PEP2
and for the ADB supported Science Education Project -- plus the
DEEW which is responsible for school construction and maintenance.
At present, the sole coordination point for all these agencies,
and for the divisional management structure (see below) is the
Education Secretary, aided by a small secretariat and the
Department's Planning and Monitoring Cell, but collectively not
providing adequate capacity for this task.
(c)   Uniquely amongst the four Provinces, Sindh maintains a
geographically based system of four divisional school directorates
in Karachi, Hyderabad, Sukkur and Larkana (the latter added only
in 1988); each having four education districts. Divisional
Directors of School Education are assisted by Additional
Directors, Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors at divisional
level and by a similar hierarchy of District Education Officers
(DEO), additional DEOs (ADEO), Deputy DEOs (DDEO), Sub-Divisional
Education Officers (SDEOs) and Supervisors of Primary
Education/Lear-aing Coordinators (SPE/LC) at the district level and



- 80 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 9
below (para. 3). The separation into four directorates increases
the pressure on the Secretary Education and his staff in
coordinating and planning expansion. In addition, there is little
separate management focus on primary education. At all levels from
the Secretariat down to the office of the DEO, responsibility for
primary and secondary education is shared, with secondary
education receiving a disproportionate amount of management
attention.
(d)   The DEOs, who are divided into male and female streams, are the
key officials in managing the primary and secondary school systems
in each district. ADEOs have been appointed recently in response
to the large increase in workloads at district level. DEOs and
ADEOs are assisted in the office by DDEOs, and in the field at
sub-divisional level by SDEOs, SPEs and LCs. Male and female lines
of officials are continued to LC level, though with fewer female
posts due to the much smaller numbers of girls' schools.
(e)   The DEO has comprehensive responsibility at district level for
professional and administrative control (including selection of
teachers for training), for planning and implementing expansion
programs, budgeting, personnel postings and promotions, and for
supplies. The informal role of liaison with local communities and
dealing with local and national figures in a subject of intense
political interest is as onerous as the official duties.
Responding to superiors in a system as centralized and
hierarchical as the Pakistan Civil Service, where delegated powers
frequently exist more on paper than in reality, is a further
source of work load.
(f)   Although staffing has increased, it has not kept pace with the
expansion of the edvcation system, or growth in the range of
responsibilities. In addition, most Education Officers at
district and sub-divisional levels come from backgrounds in
secondary schools and colleges and may have little experience and
understanding of primary education.



- 81 -                                      Annex 8
PAKISTAN                                       Page  3  ofL e  17  1989
PRIPAIY EDUCATIUN DEWLCNT PRMO            IN SiiMh
PRCCD CGAIZATION SRUCTUMR
Secretary of
Education
in sinth
_ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .........
Additl-at| Additional                                                           Additinalm
Eckication                Education                                             Ecation
Secretary                 Secretary                                             Secretary
(Acadanic)                PlamirV &                                             Adkdnistr.
Coordinetign
Existirg                                                                       ExIstrig
Structure                                                                      Struture
--T"
r... ..                                        Director of             E
Deputy            .~~~ Denuty    *            Drector             PUf(PFE;P20)~      _    C
Secretary              r- . Secretary   .    r-    PLsming 8                        f             R
Plami,u                *  * Coordination *    *      Nonitorlr 
...L                .            Cell               Dir. Bureau            T
.                       .                          of Curr & Ext           A
Section Officer        .                       .                                                  R
Primary Educ.         * r..           1      * .
*  * Section   *        *   Deputy Director       Director, d.             A
r... Officer   *            N.nit.  & hEtit8         Eaug. Works           T
Section Officer        .    Disbwrsants                              I .
Secondary Educc.    .    J .. .
.                       .    Deputy Director        Chai~n,a 
*  |                      . I   Statistics 9      Tetb. Board
Section Officer        *   Section             *
ColLeges/Tech.Ed L|                                        Di Offrert
*   *    BLulget & 1  *  | Deputy Director | i  Other Boards
| Accounts |       L..  Ipemtentation  w|   Direct.
Director        Director Director                 Director                                        T
I of School | |of of Scho        of School        of School
|E ation | |Educatien | |Educathnn                Edeatin|                                         D
| Karachi  i   | Hyderabad |wSukur                Lerkane                                         I
r"n"'                      ~~~r .....
As in   de      |                    As in          d  As in      aI
0
r    l .  I                                                       (Additional
*    AD/DD   *               |                     |  AD/DD   | Deputy
*  Primary  * -Secodary    Director)
Eckcation *                                     |Educatlon |_._._                                    
L ......                                                                       LEGEND:
(District
I DEO   t           |  DEO    | EdicatfIn            |T__.
(MNle)                (Fense       Officer)           |         Provincial Authority
r         .1          r....      ....   (Assistant                                            I I
*   ADEO                   DO      * District            |    j   Divisional Authority        S
* (Primary) *         * (Primary) * Education              TI                                 T
*   Kale    *         *   Female  *  Officer)              r...I    R
L   .   J             LI         T . ..                   J  | *  * Prposed chawges           I
r....I......           ... -- . . seisu       sors of    I. L--J                              C
* SPEs/L 1s          [SPEs/LCs 1  Primary Eckcaticn                                         T
.         .           * and Learn'r              -    Lie of Authority
.        T J          L    r         JCoordinators)
r...I...              r     .     1i... I
* Schools  *          * Schols  *....  Lin of iarged
* (Primary) *         (PrPrimar) *                                  Authority.                 I
L..J 1. 4



- 82 -
Annex 8
Pag2 4 of 9
dmna;ement Chang2s in the PEDP
3.          Figure 1 outlines the proposed changes to improve the Education
Departmentts capacity to handle primary education expansion and to manage the
system better at divisional and district levels. The proposed reforms take
into account the following factors:
(a)   The administrative system depends on hierarchical control,
accountability, and administration by directives and instructions.
The system is relatively static; new procedures can only be
introduced slowly. Relatively meager resources are available,
their use must be considered carefully, must be sanctioned by a
higher authority, spent in accordance with agreed rules and
accounted for meticulously. Although not ideal for large scale
expansion and innovation, there are some advantages in the
Pakistan context. The rule-orientated, hierarchical environment
maintains control in a situation where resources are scarce and
uncertain, where demand for education far exceeds supply, and
where political and sectional pressures are very strong.
(b)   Because the system of education administration is part of a wider
national system, major variations and reforms to cater for the
special requirements of the PEDP would be very difficult to
introduce.
(c)  Therefore the focus should be on strengthening key institutions in
the present system to implement the PEDP and improve the overall
management of the education system. Areas of focus include:
strengthening the policy-making, planning and coordination role of
the Education Secretariat; providing additional staff with an
exclusive focus on primary education in the divisions and
districts; and improving delegation of financial powers.
Incremental changes of this type do not clash with the  vivil
service structure, and can be implemented.
(d)   Finally, an important factor is the experience and capabilities of
education administrators and professionals. The main distinction
is again between the Education Secretariat and the Technical and
Geographical Directorates. Many secretariat officials are career
administrators selected on the basis of seniority and demonstrated
administrative ability. Staff in the technical and geographical
directorates are usually professional educators and technical
professionals. Secretariat officials tend to be isolated from
professional aspects of education, while Directorate staff have
little to do with policy, management and planning. The
Secretariat exists to service the Secretary and Minister; the
skills requirud are primarily of policy formulation, problem
solving and "processing" of papers; frequent personnel moves
reduce the incentives and need to know the professional background
to the current assignment. Centralized, hierarchical, rule-



- 83 -
Annex 8
Page 5 og 9
orientated administration provides limited scope for constructive
and innovative planning and management by directorate and district
education officials. Backgrounds in teaching at different levels
supply no prior knowledge of these skills, which are often not
learned or practiced during entire careers. To improve the
capabilities of staff in he sector, the requirement is for
educational awareness training for Secretariat officials and
management skills for the professionals. Each group requires
specially tailored professional, planning and management training
geared to the needs of particular posts as they operate in
practice. The priority is management training for district and
divisional staff, as this is currently the area of greatest
weakness.
The Agenda and Guidelines for Reform.
4.          The above analysis of the administrative system has resulted in
three areas for support under the PEDP:
(a)   Strengthen the Education Secretariat's cagacity to supervise the
planning of educational expansion (especially primary education),
to coordinate the various agencies iwnolved (provincial, federal,
and external) and generally to act as a problem solving and
trouble shooting agency in the provincial system.
(b)   Strengthen administrative capacity at the divisional and district
level to provide a distinct planning and management focus for
primary education.
(c)  Upgrade the management skills and essential Rrofessional
educatiot J awareness of key administrators and professionals to
improve performance.
The Education Secretariat
5.          The central appointment in strengthening the Educatior
Secretariat's planning and coordination capacity is that of Additional
Education Secretary (Planning and Coordination) (AESPC) in BPS20. The post,
which has been in existence since 1987, (Figure 1), has been made permanent in
the FY90 recurrent budget. A job description for the position is included in
Attachment 1.
6.          Job descriptions for the Deputy Secretary (Planning) (DS(P)) and
Deputy Secretary (Coordination) (DS(C)) posts in the expanded Planning and
Coordination Wing (Figure 1) are included in Attachment 1, although only the
DS(C) post is new. Duties will be redistributed between the existing DS(P)
position and the new post. The DS(P) will continue to concentrate on the
processing of PC-ls for educational development projects and schemes, ensuring
that the Education Secretariat and other pro-vincial agencies involved give the



- 84 -
Annex 8
Pse 6 of 2
necessary approvals with minimum delays. -The DS(C) will have tto Section
Officers (SO); one the existing post of SO(Budget and Accounts) transferred
from the DS(P) and the new position of SO(Disbursement). As the titles imply,
the DS(C) and the two SOs will concentrate on ensuring that the various
provincial and external agencies are properly coordinated in educational
expansion. The main concern will be to speed up resource flows -- usually the
main source of problems in project implementation.
7.          Technical support for the Secretariat is provided by the Planping
and Monitoring (P&M) Cell. The Cell is responsible for: the Province's
educational statistics and information system; technical scrutiny and
processing of PC-ls; monitoring and evaluation; and the development of new
programs and projects. It has an established strength of 22 headed by a
Director at Grade 19 and four Deputy Directors with 9 Assistant Directors and
8 Planning Assistants.
8.          Key functions of the P&M cell which need upgrading are: a) the
collection and analysis of education data; and b) monitoring of project
implementation. During preparation of the PEDP, a satisfactory proforma has
been prepared for the collection of education data, including enrollments,
drop-outs, age-by-grade etc. A satisfactory proforma has also been prepared to
monitor the financial and physical targets of the PRDP. The P&M cell is
adequately provided with computer equipment for data analysis, but software
and staff training are r.eeded to improve performance. These will be provided
under the PEDP. The modalities of training are described in para. 13.
Divisional and District Directorates of Education
9.          These directorates will be provided with additional capacity to
handle the rapidly expanding primary e4it-   ystem as follows:
(a)   At the divisional level, a new position of Additional Director for
Pi. ary Education (ADPE) will be created. A job description for
the post is included in Attachment 1. The ADPE will exercise the
powers of the Divisional Director of Schools in all aspects of
primary education -- planning and development, system management
and personnel administration. The divisional directors of
education will decide with the Education Secretary whether the
ADPE will be created by redesignating an existing Additional
Director or by creating a new post. The decision will vary
depending on existing workloads and the size of the Directorate.
(b)   At the district level, the existing posts of Additional District
Education Officer (ADEO) at the same grade 18 as the DEO will be
redesignated as ADEO(Primary Education) on both male and female
sides. The job description in Attachment 1 emphasizes the ADEO's
full exercise of the powers of the DEO in primary education.
Delegation of powers rules will be reviewed to strengthen the
ADEO's role.



- 85 -
Annex 8
age 7 Of 
(c)   At the sub- divisional level, the duties and powers of assistant
DEOs will be refocussed to ensure that they can give full
attention to primary education -- already their main
responsibility. Relationships between ADEOs and SDEOs, between
SDEOs and SPEs, and SPEs and LCOs (where Learning Coordinators
have been appointed) will also be clarified to consolidate the
administrative hierarchy for primary education.
Management and Professional Trainlnk
10.         Planning and management capacity will also be strengthened by a
specially designed in-service program concentrating on management training for
key administrators and professionals. There has been limited, almost random
access to such training in the past, with little impact.
11.         There are three principal target groups:
(a) Officials of the Planning and Coordination Wing of the Education
Secretariat. The needs are for planning and management training
integrated with professional awareness building on key issues in
the planning and delivery of education. The PEDP would be used as
the starting point in the professional awareness program.
(b)   The staff of the Planning and Monitoring Cell: the requirements
are for training in project planning and appraisal, and the
specific fields of statistical data analysis, information systems,
school mapping, program monitoring and evaluation.
(c)   Directorate. District and Sub-divisional officials: these officers
would be provided training to handle their expanded planning and
management responsibilities. Most will have had no management
training and will have come from professional educational
backgrounds.
12.         As well as directly providing training, a second priority will be
to develop the capacity of the Department's Curriculum and Extension Bureau to
offer management training at all levels up to Grade 18. The training programs
would be organized by the Curriculum Bureau's Education Extension Center (EEC)
in Karachi, which has designated responsibility to provide management training
for the Education Sector. However, because the EEC lacks expertise to design
and implement specialized management training, the Karachi branch of the
National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) will be provided with
resources to act as consultants and executing agency for the initial training,
and will evaluate the initial two-year phase of the program. NIPA will work
closely with the EEC, which will gradually take over execution of the program
as its skills develop. About 18 staff-months of expert services (para. 14 and
annex 6) will be provided during the first 2 years of implementation to assist
NIPA in needs analysis, design, implementation and evaluation of the first
round of training programs. About 54 staff-months of fellowships will also be



_ 86 -
Annex 8
"ag 8 of 9
prov,ided for Eduwation Department staff to study organization and management
of primary education in other countries.
13.         The sequence for planning, preparing and executing the training
program is as follows:
(a)   During year 1 of the PEDP, an in-depth activity and needs analysis
will be completed of the work of the three main target groups.
The analysis (over a four month period by a combination of time
logging and follow-up interviews of limited cross-sections of
officers) will establish training priorities, and identify the
natural groupings for different types and fields of training.
(b)   a combination of training courses would then be designed.  There
are likely to be requirements for: individual training and
attachment programs inside and outside Pakistan for key
Secretariat and P&H cell officials; and modular group training
programs in Pakistan for P&M Cell staff and for Directorate and
District officials. All would be practically tailored to
different needs and working environments, include necessary
professional awareness training, and be directly geared to
performance improvement through project work and action plans
where these are appropriate.
(c)   A number of groups and training requirements have already been
identified (Attachment 2):
Secretariat officials (AESPC, DSs, SOs): professional awareness
and PEDP briefing, seminars, specialist study visits, individual
training and attachments in Pakistan or overseas;
Senior P&M Cell staff (Director, Additional Directors):
professional upgrading; PEDP briefing seminars (with the
Secretariat); specialist study visits, individual training in
Pakistan or overseas).
Middle level P&M Cell staff (Assistant Directors and Planning
Assistants): upgrading seminars in data analysis, planning and
monitoring techniques and PEDP familiarization.
Divisional Directorate and senior District staff (ADPEs, DEOs
etc.): PEDP familiarization, modular programs covering educational
planning, budgeting and general financial management, personnel
management and supply management;
Sub-divisional and supervisory staff (SDEOs, SPEs): PEDP briefing
seminars; modular programs on educational planning and school
management;



- 87 -
Annex 8
P4g 9 of 9
(d)   Pilot testing and refinemert of courses is likely to oc-upy most
of the first two years of the PEDP. About 100 staff would be
trained in pilot courses over this period;
(e)   During the  first two years of the PEDP, a major effort would be
made to build-up a small core of management trainers in the
Education Extension Centre, using NIPA as a training resource.
14.        About 18 staff-months of expert services would be provided for the
planning, preparation and pilot delivery of courses during the first two years
of the PEDP (Attachment 3).



- 88 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 9
JOB DESCRIPTION
ADDITIONAL EDUCATION SECRETARY (PLANNING AND
COORDINATION)(AESPC)
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    The AESPC will have overall responsibility for the following units and
functions within the Provincial Education Department:
ORGANIZATION
1.1   Managing the work program of the Planning and Coordination Wing.
1.2   Supervising of the Planning and Monitoring Cell.
PLANNING an DEVELOPMENT
1.3   Developing the provincial educational data base covering basic
educational statistics and school maps.
1.4   Planning and appraising of all educational development programs and
projects in the Province
1.5   Preparing provincial educational development plans covering physical and
financial aspects of expansion.
1.6   Monitoring and evaluation of progress in implementation
1.7   Identifying problems and constraints in implementation, formulation of
solutions and removal of bottlenecks.
1.8   Availability and disbursement of provincial, federal and foreign
development and non-development funds;
COORDINATION
1.9   Coordinating with the directorates of education including Engineering
WorKs, Textbook Board, etc. in educational development;
1.10 Coordinating between federal agencies involved in educational
development and the relevant provincial authorities, together with
external aid agencies;
1.11 Collaborating with external aid agencies in the design of educational
development programs and projects;



- 89 -
Annex 8
IF                   Attachment I
page 2 of 9
POLICY FORMULATION FOR EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPNENT
1.12 Designing new programs to expand education availabilitv and raise
quality.
1.13 Initiating and conducting action-oriented practical research to produce
qualitative and quantitative educational lmprovements.
ADDITIONAL ASSIGNMENTS
1.14 Completing other special tasks and duties that may be assigned by the
Department.
SPECIAL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
2.0   The AESPC will have special responsibility for development and
management of primary education.
2.1   Overseeing the preparation and processing of all development schemes for
primary education.
2.2   Coordinating and managing the availability of development and non-
development funds for primary education.
2.3   Providing the focus of coordination for all Provincial agencies involved
in primary education, e.g. the Directorates of Education Engineering
Works, Curriculum and Extension, Textbook Board and the Project
Imlementation Units of the Second Primary Education Project and the
Science Education Project together with the Divisional Directoratas of
School Education.
2.4   Coordinating donor agency involvement in primary education developmena.
2.5 Ensuring the operation of a special account for external funds for
primary education.
2.6   Monitoring progress in development programs and removing obstacles to
primary education expansion and qualitative improvement.
OUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
2.1   Master degree in physical sciences, social sciences, or humanities with
masters or bachelors degree in education.
2.2 Minimum of 15 years experience, preferably in education.
2.3  Additional training in relevant fields such as project planning,
development economics or education, desirable.
JOB DESCRIPTION



- 90 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Pagg 3 of 9
DEPUTY SECRETARY (COORDINATION) -DS (C)
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    The DS (C) will have the following responsibilities within the Planning
and Coordination Wing of the Department:
ORGANJZ&TION
1.1   Managing the work programs of two section officers; budget and accounts,
disbursement.
1.2  Assisting the AESPC in his overall responsibility for the effective
working of the Planning and Monitoring Cell of the Department.
COORDINATIQN
1.3   Coordinating the work of provincial, federal and donor agencies involved
in the implementation of educational development programs.
1.4   Monitoring progress in development programs and in the existing
provincial education system, helping to solve problems and remove
bottlenecks.
1.5   Preparing proposals for distribution/redistributing budgetary
allocations among provincial education agencies.
1.6   Assisting in the maintenance and efficient operation of Special Accounts
for external credit funds.
1.7   Giving special attention to progress in primary education development.
ADDITIONAL ASSIGNMENTS
1.8   Completion of other special tasks and duties that may be assigned by the
Department.
OUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
2.1   Masters degree in physical sciences, social sciences or humanities and
bachelors or masters degree in education.
2.2   Minimum of 10 years experience mostly in education.
2.3  Additional training in project planning and appraisal, planning,
development economics or educational fields desirable.
JOB DESCRIPTION



- 91 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 2
DEPUTY SECRETARY (PLANNING) - DS (P)
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    The DS (P) will have the following responsibilities within the Planning
and Coordination Wing of the Department.
ORGANIZATION
1.1  Managing work programs of three Section Officers responsible for Primary
Education, Secondary Education, Colleges and Technical Education.
1.2   Responsibility for the work of the P&M Cell of the Department.
ELANNING
1.3   Assisting AESPC in overall education planning for the Province.
1.4  Planning and appraising of all educational developmeut programs and
projects in the Province.
1.5   Scrutinizing non-development budget proposals for further processing at
higher levels.
1.6   Identifying bottlenecks and problems in processing of development
project plans and non-development proposals and devising and
implementing solutions leading to their removal.
ADDITIONAL ASSIGNNENTS
1.7   Completing other special tasks and duties that may be assigned by the
Department.
OUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
2.1   Master degree in physical sciences, social sciences or humanities and
bachelors or master degree in education.
2.2   Minimum of 10 years experience mostly in education.
2.3 Additional training in project planning and appraisal planning,
development or educational fields desirable but not essential.



- 92 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Page 5 of g
JOB DESCRIPTION
SECTION OFFICERS. PLANNING AND COORDINATION WING
1.    Four Section Officer (SO's) - Primary Education Secondary Education,
Colleges and Technical Education, and Budget and Accounts - are already
part of the PCW and will continue their existing duties.
2.    SO's - Primary, Secondary and Colleges/Technical Education will be
responsible to DS (Planning) as at present. Two SO's - Budget and
Accounts and Disbursement will head sections under the new DS
(Coordination).
3.    The new post of SO (Disbursement) will concentrate on ensuring that
flows of funds to educational development programs are made available
smoothly when required, monitoring progress and expenditure, helping to
identify and remove any problems or bottlenecks.
4.    Whenever possible the Province will appoint Section Officers with
experience in education. Masters degree qualifications in physicae
sciences, social science or humanities plus master or bachelors in
education would be the minimum requirement with at least 5 years
experience. Opportunities for further training and development would be
provided for SO appointees in return for guarantees of minimum tenure in
post for three years.



- 93 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Pse 6 of 9
DRAFT JOB DESCRIPTION
ADDITIONAL DIRECTOR (PRIMARY EDUCATION)(ADPE) at Divisional Level
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES;
1.    The ADPE will have the following responsibilities in the Divisional
Directorate of Schools:
GENL
1.1   Substantively exercising the powers of the Divisional Director of School
Education in all matters of primary education management and development
in the Division.
ORGANIZATIQK
1.2   Managing the work programs of 2 Deputy Directors, 2 Assistant Directors,
and the Statistical Officer, as their duties relate to primary education
in zhe Divisional Directorate.
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
1.3   Coordinating the planning of primary education development programs and
projects in the Division;
1.4   Helping to develop the educational data-base for primary education and
supervising the data collection and school - mapping systems.
1.5   Helping to develop criteria for: i) provision of new primary schools and
additional classrooms in existing schools, ii) provision of improved
supplies of school furniture, teaching materials, textbooks and learning
modules.
1.6   Coordinating preparation of annual -hedules of new expenditures on
primary education for the Division.
1.7   Frocessing district development proposals (PC-I's) and submitting them
to the relevant Provincial authorities.
1.8   Identifying and resolving problems and bottlenecks that appear in the
implementation of development programs and projects in primary
education.
MANAGEMENT
1.9   Ensuring the efficient management of the Primary education system at
divisional, district and lower levels.



- 94 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Pag2 7 of 9
1.10 Regularly inspecting all district and sub-divisional education offices
concerned with primary education and personally inspecting a small
percentage of primary schools each year.
1.11 Checking on the maintenance and repairs of primary schools.
1.12 Ensuring adequate supplies of furniture, teaching materials, text books
and learning modules actually reach the primary schools.
PERSEL
1.13 Recommending selections for the posts of Sub-Divisional Education
Officer.
1.14 Recommending the selection, transfer and posting of Sub-Divisional
Education Officers.
1.15 Acting as the appointing authority for Supervisors of Primary Education.
1.16 Writing the Annual reports of Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors.
1.17 Supervising the work of the ADEO's (PE).
1.18 Coordinating with the Director of Curriculum and Extension Bureau in
planning and administering teacher training in the Province, including
that carried out by SPEs/LCs.
ADDITIONAL ASSIGNMENTS
1.19 Completion of such other special tasks and duties that may be assigned
by the Divisional Directorate.
OUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
2.1   Masters Degree in physical sciences, social sciences or humanities with
bachelors or masters degree in education.
2.2   Minimum of 10 years experience in education.
2.3  Additional in service training in educational fields desirable.



- 95 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Page a of 9
JOB DESCRIPTION
ADDITIONAL DISTRICT EDUCATION OFFICER (PRIMARY EDUCATION) - ADEO(PE)
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    The ADEO (PE) will have the following responsibilities in the Education
Department at district level:
1.1   Exercising all the powers of the District Education Officers in all
matters of primary education management and development in the district.
ORGANIZATION
1.2   Management and work progrAms of Sub-Divisional Education Officers
responsible for primary education in the district.
PLANNING AND DEVELOPNEN
1.3   Preparing district plans (PC-l's) for primary education development
programs and projects.
1.4   Ensuring that the data collection and school mapping systems for primary
education work effectively in the district.
1.5   Developing and applying district wide criteria for the construction or
upgrading of schools; supply of school furniture, teaching materials,
textbooks and learning modules.
1.6   Preparing annual schedules of new expenditure on primary education for
the district.
1.7   Monitoring progress iff development and rehabilitation programs,
especially in construction and identifying and removing problems and
bottlenecks.
1.8  Ensuring the efficient management of the primary education system at
district, sub-divisional and grass-roots levels.
1.9   Regularly inspecting all sub-divisional education offices and personally
inspecting primary schools in the district every year.
1.10 Checking on the maintenance and repairs of primary schools.



- 96 -
Annex 8
Attachment 1
Page 9 of 9
1.11 Ensuring adequate supplies of furniture, teaching materials, textbooks
and learning modules in each school.
PERSEL
1.12 Posting SPEs.
1.13 Appointing and posting Learning Coordinators (where districts have these
posts).
1.14 Writing the annual reports of SDEO's.
1.15 Arranging inter-taluka transfers of primary school teachers.
1.16 Coordinating with the Curriculum and Extension Bureau in implementing
programs of pre-service and in-service teacher training, including those
run by SPEs/LCs.
ADDITIONAL ASSIGNMENTS:
1.17 Completion of such other tasks and duties that may be assigned by the
Divisional Directorate or District Education Officer.
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
2.1  Master or bachelors degree in physical sciences, social sciences or
humanities and masters or bachelors degree in education.
2.2  Minimum of 10 years experience in education.
2.3   Additional in-service training in educational fields desirable.



- 97 -
Annex 8
Attachment 2
Pag2 I gf 2
IN-SERVICE TRAINING FOR PLINARY EDUCATION NAMBUES
Addl. Secretary (AESPC)                                - I
Deputy Secretaries (P&C)                               - 2
Section Officers (Planning, Budgeting & Accounts,
and Disbursement)                                     - 3
Divisional Directors of School Education               - 4
Divisional Additional Directors of School Education   - 4
Divisional Deputy Directors                            - 8
Divisional Assistant Directors                         - 12
Director P6M Cell                                      -1
Deputy Director P&M Cell                               -3
Assistant Directors P6M Cell                           -6
Director Bureau of Curriculum                          -1
Extension Officers, Bureau of Curriculum               - 6
Director PIU PEP II                                    -1
Deputy Directors PIU                                   -2
Assistant Directors PIU                                -3
District Education Officers (DE0s)                     - 32
Additional DEOs                                        - 32
Sub-Divisional Education Officers (SDEOs)              - 112
TOTAL         233



- 98 -
Annex 8
Attachment 2
pge  2 ofL
Training Plan (1991-1995)
No. of        Total
Training      No. of
Indicated Areas of TrAining         Duratin  Events          Paticlsapts
1.   Project Induction              1 day        8           233
2.   Management and
Organizational Development    6 days       5            61
3.   Project Planning/Appraisal    3 days        8            82
4.    Praject Implementation and
Coordination                  4 days       10          164
5.    Project Monitoring and
Evaluation                    6 days       8            72
6.   Financial Management           3 days       3            40
7     Data Collection and
Management                    3 days       10          196
8.    Policy Formulation            2 days       3            15
9     School Mapping                6 days       5            96
10.   School Supervision            3 days       8           216
11.   Personnel Management          3 days       6            60
12.   In-.-,r-rice Training
Management                    2 days       4            48
276                    1283
Total Number of Training days             276
in 5 years
Average contact load of
management training per year             276/5 - 55 days



- 99 -
Annex 8
Attachment 3
TRAINING SPECIALIST IN EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
1.0   Duration of Assig=nent              18 months starting in March 1991
2.0   Duty Station                        Karachi (Pakistan)
3.0   Job Descriotion
3.1   In collaboration with the National Institute of Public
Administration (NIPA), Karachi and counterpart project staff (a
team of one Management Trainer and one management Lnstructor), the
Specialist will analyze the job activities of primary education
managers at the provincial, the divisional, the district and the
sub-district levels (completion time: 3 months)
3.2   Based on the activity analysis and in consultation with NIPA,
Karachi and Academy of Educational Plan-ing and Nanagunt (APX),
Islamabad as well as with the counterpart staff, he/she will: (i)
undertake an assessment of the training needs of different
categories of primary education managers; (ii) prepare training
plans; and (iii) develop training materials for the pilot training
phase (completion time: 3 months)
3.3   In collaboration with NIPA, Karachi and counterpart staff, he/she
will: (i) deliver at NIPA the pilot training program for selected
groups of primary education managers; (ii) evaluate these
programs; and (iii) modify, where necessary and finalize various
training modules for regular in-service management training
programs (completion time: 6 months).
3.4   In partial collaboration with NIPA, Karachi he/she will share and
oversee the delivery of the first batches of regular and recurrent
training programs of primary education managers at the Education
Extension Centre, Karachi (completion time: 6 months)
4.0 Job Specifications (Oualifications and Experience Reauired)
4.1   Master's Degree in Educational Management and Administration
4.2   Ten years' experience in the management of a geographically spread
primary education system including specific work as management
trainer in planning and administering training systems.
4.3   Experience in educational management training in South Asia
desirable.



- 100 -
Annex 9
Page I of A
UPMIMhING TUE OPEUATIONS OF TEE BIND! TEXTBOOK BOARD
Current Onerations
1.          The Sindh Textbook Board (STBB) was established in Hyderabad in
1971. It is responsible for the production and publication of textbooks and
supplementary materials for primary, intermediate and secondary education,
teacher handbooks and literature for adults.
2.          During the 18 years of its existence, many of the original
functions have fallen by the wayside. For example, very few supplementary
readers are published and tsacher handbooks were last made available on any
scale in 1980. As a commercial organization, the STBB produces only what it
can sell, and no funds have been made available since 1980 to publish and
distribute teacher handbooks.
3.          The STBB operates as a commercial undertaking responsible to the
Sindh Board of Education.  It receives no subsidies of any kind and its
protits are pioughea back into future operations to maintain book ptice*  at
the lowest possible level. In 1988 its annual sales income from its own
publications and from royalties and payments from publications sub-contracted
to the commercial sector was estimated at Rps. 6.5 million. The STBB and its
sub-contractors printed approximately 310 titles totalling 21.5 million books,
of which approximately 6 million were produced in the STBB's own print shop in
Jamshoro.
4.          The STBB currently maintains a staff of around 250, of whom 60 are
employed in the STBB's own printing factory. A further 75 staff work on
editorial, design and production functions. The balance of staff are clerks,
secretaries and manual workers. None of the professional staff have formal
qualifications in printing, production, editing, design or management,
although short overseas training attachments have been arranged from time to
time.
5.          The STBB is solely responsible for the selection of authorship
teams (or individual authors) to write the textbooks according to the
curriculum guidelines of the Federal Curriculum Wing. Authors are advertised
for, or directly appointed by the relevant senior subject specialist in the
editorial wing of the STBB.
6.         Nanuscripts(mss) are edited in-house, and, when completed, past ad
to the National Leview Board (NRB) in Islamabad for approval. The NRB looks
particularly for conformity with the agreed national curriculum. Comments or
amendments are provided back to the STBB, which is required to incorporate
them in the final version of the manuscripts. The NRB does not normally
review corrected reprints of textbooks after publication.



- 101 -
Annex 9
pse 2 of 6
7.         Once the manuscript is completed and approved, a detailed
production specification is drawn up by the STBB, which lays down precise
parameters in terms of extent, format, number of colors, number of
illustrations, type-size, paper weight, cover weight and binding style (in
Sindh either wire saddle stitch or wire side-stabbing). The costs of all of
these operations are controlled by costing and pricing formulae applied to
author's royalties (12.5S), publisher's profit (151) and trade discount
(17.51). These formulae form part of the contracts between the STBB and sub-
contracted publishers.
8.         On completion of the specification, the STBB either undertakes
composing, illustrations, page design, lay-out, pre-press work, printing and
production control under its own imprint and in its own print shop (currently
about one third of total unit output), or sub-contracts these processes to the
50 or so local publishers registered with the Board as efficient. The
majority are small companies - often one or two person organizations - or
printers, or booksellers. The resulting work is supervised by STBB, but
supervision is inadequate since STBB staff are fully occupied with their own
publication programme. A number of the sub-contracted books have been
observed to have inappropriate pre-press work. The requirement to work within
a rigidly controlled cost and price formula with heavy penalty clauses leads
t^ c5r5-i^c coCt-cett'ing (e.g. cutting out illustrations from other books and
photographs rather than originating custom designed materials). The very
tight production specifications and the large number of publishers involved
diminishes the application (and thus the development) of real publishing
skills. The Karachi Field Office of the STBB is largely responsible for the
sub-contracting and supervision since most of the registered sub-contractors
and printers are Karachi based.
9.         All paper used by both the STBB printing press and sub-contracted
publishers and printers is purchased centrally by STBB from Pakistan paper
mills. All printing appears to be on sheet fed presses and the paper is
therefore bought ready sheeted. The current price (1989) for 56 gsm white
offset paper is around Rps. 20,000 (about US$950) per metric ton, which
compares unfavorably with world paper prices for the same grade of around $650
p.m.t. Printers are critical of the paper quality which tears easily and
requires large trim margins, leading to larger than desirable paper wastage
rates (currently 16X on the sheet, plus 3X machining wastage per color). On a
4 color book this would amount to a paper wastage rate of about 28X.
10.         Sub-contracting publishers are unwilling to tie-up capital in
paper for very long and thus the majority of textbook manufacturing is
compressed into a three month period between December and February. This leads
to heavy use of available machinery, over high machine running speeds, bottle
necks at critical points such as binding and an unwillingness by printers to
invest in new, automatic, integrated machine technology since it will
inevitably lay idle for 9 months of the year.
11.        All textbooks produced by the STBB are sold. There is currently no
free textbook distribution. School book publishers combine in small consortia



- 102 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of6
to hire temporary storage for stock, which is then wholesaled to sales agents
(sometimes schools) throughout the province. This system works reasonably
well. Evidence indicates that if a child can afford a book there is generally
a copy available for sale. However, publishers decide their own print runs
(STBB usually specifies a minimum and maximum print run requirement in their
contracts with sub-contractors), and are responsible for their own stock.
There is thus a tendency to err on the side of caution. The STBB can however,
intervene to require higher print runs if required v usually by offering
compensation for any overstocks.
Issues to be Addressed by the PEDP
12.         Textbook durability.  The basic STBB primary school textbook is
printed on paper of poor quality (para. 9). Many textbooks are already damaged
by the manufacturing process when supplied new. The poor quality text paper
also makes short book life in the hands of young children in difficult
environments. The cover paper is inadequate to provide protection to the book
block, and there is no protection against scuffing and damp. The binding is
also poor. This raises the real cost of textbooks to parents, who may need to
replace textbooks as often as three times per academic year. At the same time,
there lp a politv mnve by the Rducatlon Department toward more color work.
which increases the cost of the book block. A more expensive product has
therefore not been given the advantage of increased book life by increasing
physical specifications.
13.        The major reason for the low production quality has been the
legitimate desire of the STBB to provide textbooks at very low cost to
parents. Sindh textbooks are cheap by any standards. A standard set of
textbooks for a Grade 1 student currently retails at Rsl4.40 (approximately
$0.69). This price includes all raw materials, manufacturing, first costs,
royalties, distribution cost and publishers overheads and profit. Of this
cost, 451 is for text paper.
14.         Existing physical production specifications would be upgraded to
provide sufficient durability to keep a textbook in reasonable condition for
at least a year. In particular the cover card would be upgraded to an
imported 240 gsm, one-sided, boxboard capable of taking a mechanical varnish
immediately. Textpaper would be upgraded to at least a 60 gsm, imported,
Chinese offset quality. The current wire saddle stitching for books up to 96pp
is satisfactory if the text paper is upgraded to 60 gsm. Books over 96 pp in
extent would have section-sewn bindings, and drawn-on covers glued to sides
with hinges'. The impact of these quality upgradings would be to increase
costs by an average of 40X. To produce more durable books, but hold prices at
1989 levels, the PEDP would subsidize the cost increase by an annual payment
to STBB on receipt of bills and invoices demonstrating the use of superior
'Detailed specifications can be found in a working paper in the PEDP
files.



- 103 -
Annex 9
Page 4 gf 6
material as described above. Almost all of the upgrading costs are raw
material costs for text and cover paper. STBB already buys in bulk and
supplies to sub-contracted printers. A subsidy to STBB would therefore
automatically include these printers. Existing production and distribution
systems would remain intact and parents would still contribute to the costs of
the books - an important factor taking into account the recurrent cost impact
of a completely free textbook distribution (which can only be roughly
estimated at about Rps 100 million p.a. in the absence of adequate data on
enrollments and drop-out rates). To inform future textbook policy, the PEDP
would include a comprehensive evaluation of subsidized, upgraded books and the
pilot, free distribution to rural girls (Annex 10).
15.         Textbook Content.  Textbooks in Sindh generally suffer from the
following deficiencies in content: a) poor language grading, from one level
to another and even between different subject books at the same level; b) lack
of exercise material, particularly in math, science and Urdu; c) inappropriate
pedagogical level; d) dull layout and design; e) poor co-ordination between
subject textbooks at different levels in the same series; f) inappropriate
Illustrations; g) a high proportion of factual and grammatical errors in the
text (indicative of poor copy editing); h) a significant gap between the
pedagogic requirements of the curriculum and the teachers' abilities to
perform; and g) an urban middle class and gender bias in many of the textbooks
which is inappropriate for rural, poor children, particularly girls.
16.         These problems can be attributed to a number of causes: a)
inadequate supervision in editorial and artwork departments; b) inexperienced
writing teams; c) the lack of any kind of pilot testing - particularly for
rural situations; d) poor publishing skills (para. 4); and e) poor
communications between the STBB and key agencies such as the Curriculum Bureau
and the Directorates of Education, an example of which is the lack of pilot
testing of new materials (para. 23)
17.         To address these textbook content issues, the PEDP would support:
a) Institutional development in writing, editing, design and artwork,
production, publishing and financial management. Assistance would be provided
to local commercial publishers, in addition to the STBB; b) print technology
development; and c) pilot testing of all new manuscripts.
Institutional Development '
18.         8xoert Services. Thirty six staff months of expert services would
be provided by three experts In a) book design/illustration, b) math/science
textbook editing, and c) English textbook editing. The experts should have a
minimum of 5 years practical experience of textbook publishing, with some
working knowledge of conditions in developing countries. The experts would
make two visits c.-. Sindh per year for about two months duration for the first
2      See also Annex 5 for the schedule of Technical Assistance.



- 104 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
three years of the project. Based at the STBB, the experts would provide on-
job training, advice and consultancy to local authors, editors and designers
to improve teamwork, liaison, and professional skills. They would encourage
liaison between the STBB and Curriculum Bureau in developing textbooks and
ma..jrials and would also demonstrate the practical aspects of interpreting
pilot test results (para. 23). They will review STBB editorial management
systems and recommend improvements where necessary.
19.         An additional four staff months of expert services would be
provided for speciallst on-job training in areas to be identified during PEDP
implementation.
20.         Training. Fourteen staff-years of overseas professional training
in production management, printing, graphic design for textbooks and editing
would be provided for about 14 senior, experienced STBB staff with good
English and graduate level educational qualifications. Staff who receive
professional training would be bonded for at least 5 years so that they
continue to make their services available to STBB on return from training.
21.         Middle level and junior staff should from time to time receive
local training run by professionally qualified and experienced expatriate
publishers. During the first three years of the PEDP, finance would be
provided for four local training courses, each of about two weeks duration,
including professional fees, airfares and subsistence for two overseas
trainers, course preparation costs, local attendance and translation costs.
The courses would be consolidated into an STBB in-service training manual
during the fourth year of the PEDP.
Print Technology Development
22.         To encourage print technology development, GOsind would provide
notice of enhanced production specification requirements two years in advance
to all printers in the province who are currently, or who wish to be involved
in manufacturing books for the STBB. Additional equipment would also be
provided to the STBB to upgrade cover printing on binding operations and to
install computer typesetting facilities'.
Pilot Testing of Manuscripts
23.         Support will be provided to the STBB to develop pilot testing, in
close collaboration with the Curriculum Bureau and the Divisional Directorates
of Schools. About 30 new manuscripts will be developed and pilot tested per
year. Pilot testing will be undertaken after the STBB has edited text but
before final manuscripts (mss) are passed to the National Review Board for
approval. The proposed methodology is as follows.
'Specifications have been prepared and are available in the PEDP file.



- 105 -
Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
24.         The senior editor (SE) in STBB (in charge of all subject and mss
editors) will draw up an annual plan of mss to be pilot tested and will pass
this to an appointed Pilot Testing Co-ordination Manager (PTCM) at the
Curriculum Bureau through whom all pilot testing matters will pass. The SE
will also pass the annual plan to all other involved editorial staff whose
delegated responsibility it will be to advise the SE and the PTCN of 1rogress,
editing completion date and availability of pilot testing materials and
testing instruments (i.e., teacher interview schedules, self administrated
questionnaires etc.)
25.         The Mss editor will simultaneously pass edited mss to the PTCM and
the STBB design, illustration, printshop sections for the production of pilot
materials. The PTCM will appoint a curriculum officer(CO) from the Curriculum
Bureau staff to design the testing instruments and to manage the testing in
the schools. The CO will then call a meeting with the editor and the author
to discuss areas of concern in the mss. The CO then designs instruments and
passes them through the PTCN to the editor to organize their production. The
quantities of both instruments and pilot test materials needed would have
already been fixed in the annual plan of the SE. The editor would be
responsible for having the instruments and materials passed via the PTCN back
to the CO. The CO would then organize a workshop to trair. teachers who will be
using the pilot materials (approximately 20 teachers in 20 schools) and to
orlent the junior staff of the Curriculum Bureau whose task it is to conduct
interviews with teachers and to ensure that the questionnaires are correctly
filled in. The CO then compiles the results and passes them to the editor for
inclusion in the final edited version of the ms which is then sent to the
National Review Board.
26.         As this would be a new step in mss development, the duration of
first pilot testing operations would be a complete academic year, with the
pilot liaison officers visiting the schools every 4 weeks to get details on
the strengths and weaknesses of the mss while they are still fresh in the
minds of the teachers. A fortnightly meeting between the CO and all the
liaison officers will be the occasion of completing reports and for raising
practical problems. After the first year, the pilot testing period would be
shortened to six months.
27.         The PEDP would support about six staff months of exert services
during the first two years of the PEDP to assist with the development of pilot
testing, training of counterpart staff, and evaluation of the results. The
experts would be based at the STBB, and would work closely with the Curriculum
Bureau to develop pilot testing procedures. The experts would have a minimum
of five years relevant textbook publishing experience, with some relevant
experience in developing countries. The PEDP will also support local training,
and preparation and evaluation of pilot materials.



-106 -                       Annex 10
PZa I gf 2
EVALUATION OF FREE TEXTBOOK DISTRIBUTION TO RURAL GIRLS, UPGRADED PRODUCTION
SPECIFICATION/SUBSIDY SCHEME. AND SUPPLEMENTARY READERS SCHEM
Backgrgu=A
1.          The PEDP has a number of components to increase book availability
to students and teachers. By the end of the PEDP, in 1995, it is intended that
most primary school children will have access to an enhanced number of
textbooks with significantly higher production specifications, upgraded
design, improved curriculum and pedagogic content, at an affordable price. In
addition, supplementary reading materials will become available for the first
time in many schools.
The study
2.          This large program of book development would be evaluated in terms
of cost and education benefit in order to inform future policy formulation.
The evaluation would comprise:
(a)   A base-line study of book ownership and utilization in about 100
urban slum and rural schools (man. and female) in the province.
This study would be completed by December, 1990.
(b)   A study to be undertaken in 1992-93 and completed by June 30,
1993, ustng the same school sample and covering a complementary
set of topics to those in the base-line study.
3.          The topics for the two studies would include:
(a)   Availability of textbooks and supplementary materials by subject,
gender and milieu.
(b)   Level of book and supplementary material ownership by subject,
gender and milieu.
(c)   Effectiveness of distribution system (are books available for
sale?).
(d)   Book life.
(e)   Book usage.
(f)   Impact of subsidy, upgraded design and improved content on sales
and availability.
(g)   Impact of improved availability of books and supplementary
materials for rural girls on participation and drop-out.



- 107 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
(h) Impact of improved availability of textbooks and supplementary
materials on reading ability by grade, gender and milieu.
(i) Impact of learning modules on teacher subject knowledge,
achievement testing, classroom practice, etc.
Methodology
4.    The base-line study would be designed in detail and implemented by
December 1990 by the Curriculum Bureau. The PEDP would finance the costs of
the base-line and follow up study, together with technical assistanc to
assist and train Bureau staff in the design of study instruments and data
analysis. About 12 staff-months of expert services vould be provided for this
purpose. The expert team would comprise an education researcher with at least
five years experience in research methodology and analysis, and a books expert
with substantial experience of implementing book development schemes in
developing countries. The enpert" would visit Pakistan for about three months
each in 1990 and 1993 respectively.



- 108 -
Annex 11
Pae1 ofI
SIMNNAL INFORENTION TO BE SUPPLIED BY GOSINDH TO IDA
By end January and end July of each year, starting in July 1990, the
Sindh Government would prepare a table for the preceding period June -
December, or January - June comprising the following information (all sources
of funds, e.g. ADP, Peoples Works Program would be included):
Primary Education Development Budget
Allocations   Expenditures  Classrooms Built
Male Female  Male  Female    Male    Female
New rural
New Urban
Shelterless Rural
Shelterless Urban
Rehabilitation/
Reconstruction Rural
Rehabilitation/
Reconstruction Urban
Other
Total
Primary Education Recurrent Budget
Allocations     Expenditures
Salaries of Teaching Staff
Salaries of Non-Teaching Staff
Maintenance
Supplies and Materials
Total



- 109 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SINDH PRINARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SCHEDULE OF DISBWRSENENTS
Disbursement Profile a/
I D A          |   Disbureements    I                Sector  |
Fscalt           --------------------I  This       Average 1n|
Year &            Cuarter  Cumulativel Program    Pakistan
uarter          U--SS Niticns --  I --------X -----------
p=__r         ========= |I W|  
FY96                     I |         |           |           |
First      I   5.00       75.00 1      66.7 I           I
Second     I   5.00 I    80.00 I       71.1        70.0
Third      I   5.00 j    85.00 I       75.6 I           I
Fourth     1   5.00 I    90.00 I       80.0 I      77.0
FY97            I        I           1           1           1
First      I   4.00 I    94.00 I       83.6
Second     I   3.00 I    97.00         86.2 I      83.0
Third      I   3.00 I   100.00 I       88.9 |
Fourth     I   2.00      102.00 I      90.7 I      88.0
FY98           |         I           I
First      I   2.00      104.00 I      92.4
Second         2.00 I   106.00 I       94.2 I      93.0
Third      I   2.00 I   108.00 I       96.0
Fourth     |   2.00 |   110.00 |       97.8 |      98.0 |
FY99
First      j   1.50      111.50        99.1I
Second r       1.00 I   112.50 I    100.0 I    100.0
a/ The country profile for Education Projects.



-110 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
REPU8LIC OF PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAIS%L REPORT
SINDN PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SCHEDULE OF DISIURSENENTS
==2222===3222=22====            3 333333333-333-3=333332-= 3_=22 I
D;sbursement Profile al I
.......................................I
I D A           I   Disbursements    I                 Sector
Fiscal- -------------------- IThis                   Average in
Year 9            Quarter   Cumulativel  Program      Pakistan
Quarter           --USS Nillimons --    --------    -----------
2322C_232222=  :2=2223  U2=t33332231  SD233333    3=233=23
FY91            |         I
First      I   0.00         0.00          0.0
Second     I   7.00         7.00 1        6.2 I       0.0
Third      !         1      7.001         6.2              I
Fourth     !         !      7.00 1        6.2 I       1.0 |
=-= 2=== =     ==ww                    _     __      t     t 
FY92            |         I            I
First      1   2.00 I       9.00          8.0
Second     I   2.00        11.001         9.81        3.0
Third      !   3.00 !    14.00           12.4 I            I
Fourth     !   4.00 I    18.00           1 16.0 I     6.0 I
FY93
First      I   4.00 1    22.00 I         19.6
Second     I   4.00 I    26.00 I         23.1 I      11.0
Third           4.00 I    30.00 I        26.7
Fourth     |   4.00 |    34.00           30.2        18.0 |
FY94
First      I   4.00 I    38.00           33.8
Second     I   4.00 I    42.00 I         37.3 I      28.0
Third      I   4.00        46.00         40.9
Fourth     j   4.00 I    50.00 ;         44.4 I      40.0
'  ~~32=322332=3333== I 3222=1=D   =32=3=23= 1 3323333331 =         =22
FY95
First      I   5.00        55.00         48.9
Second          5.00       60.00 j       53.3        54.0
Third      j   5.00        65.00 I       57.8
Fourth     I   5.00        70.00 |       62.2 |      62.0
==2_2==-=====s            2333332=3233333=32==23-



- 111 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
DOCUMENTS FOR PROJECT FILE
PAKISTAN:   Education Sector Strategy Review Report No. 7110-PAK,
December 1988.
PAKISTAN:   Staff Appraisal Reports, Primary Education II and III.
WORKING PAPERS
Operations of Sind Textbook Board.
Production and Distribution Plans for Learning Modules.
Free Textbook Distribution Scheme for Rural Girls.
The Supplementary Reader_ Scheme.
Planning Management and Implementation of Primary Education
in Sind.
LOTUS Cost Tables
OTHERS
Govt. of Sind.    Primary Education Development Program (1990-1994),
August 1989.
World Bank.        Study of Mosque Schools with Special Reference to
Girls Education, January 1989.
Schmidt, R.L.     Report on Pakistani Parents who are Educating their
Daughters, Berkeley, 1987.
Qureshi, M. A     A Brief Note on Procedures for Contract Awards and
Payments under Extant Rules in Government of Sind for
Civil Works.
Annexes of above paper: Standard Tender Documents for
LCB Procedures.
Govt. of Sind.    Directorate of Education Engineering Works (DEEW)
"Innovative Step by the Education Department -
Performances and Evaluation" (Pictorial of primary
schools buildings in Sind with comments on DEEW)



O-                 r  21                                            PAKISTAN
REnBucI  4  unStRN
Cfmm                         W                           SIND PRIMARY EDUCAlON
f; jiAKISIAN                                 DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
t     S   jMNWA                   *0    Twns and Villages                 ---  Distrid Boundaries
0     Province Capitol                       -   Division Boundaries
U.A.E 5                                              \ 1 Selected Roads                        Province Boundaries
-410M?                                  --I  I   Sehled Railroads                   -    -   Intefonl Boundaries
>- /  -   Riven
.   Arabian  Soa 
JACOBABAD           no                        PUNJA  B
B A L U C H I S T A N                            mu!         ink           '
2V   ~~~~~~~~~~~~J28r
-2t             r        *<~~~~~~~~~~ |~.  Shi   rik   r o        f                                           .0/   0¢
gL A R A                                                                                 .
Staglerikat                         7~~hriu 
{:   K moa2  ?  iFairgnug nbU  K  K  U  Ri
li    Nafl~~arastr   ;     i  a
ir p ur                           irwell
Naha Hh gotilO
s   t e  t Daulabr Mari     \~~~r Cake
-2de                                                                S /  A  N  G  H  A  R                              2 6f--
D    A    ,D          \ip                     o,<
x /  < <7      T H A R P A R K A R \
|- Gl ut - en-noa AlI
-24   -        '</Hg                               \                                                             24*-T    4 
241
.>t' t ~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                 Wfts~~
0   20  4   60  80  IWO KILOMETEr
o   At-ab/an Seo            t/g                O  {O  120 304iS05  BMILESi                  ,c-In.--
Arobjan   eo
70



