Document of
THE WORLD BANK
For Official Use Only
Report No. P 7239-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CSDP II)
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
OF US$400 MILLION
TO BANOBRAS, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
May 13, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =               Peso (P$)
US$1.00                               P$8.4 (February, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP            Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones
(Pension Fund Administrator - Chile)
AFORE          Administradora de Fondos para el Retiro.
(Pension Fund Administrator)
BANOBRAS    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N. C.
CNBV           Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores.
(National Banking and Securities Commission)
CNSF           Comisi6n Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas.
(National Insurance and Bonding Commission)
CONSAR         Comision Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro.
(National Commission of the Retirement Savings System)
FOVI           Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda.
(Housing Financing Trust Fund)
FOVISSSTE    Fondo para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE.
(Government Workers' Housing Fund)
FTAL           Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
IMSS           Instituto Mexicano del Seguro SociaL
(Mexican Social Security Institute)
INFONAVIT   Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda de los Trabajadores.
(National Workers' Housing Fund Institute)
ISSSTE         Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado.
(Institute of Security and Social Services for Government Workers)
IV             Seguro de Invalidez y Vida
(Disability and Life Insurance)
IVCM           Invalidez, Vejez, Cesantia en EdadAvanzada, y Muerte
(Disability, Old age, Severance, and Death Insurance Coverages)
RCV            Seguro de Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Vejez
(Old Age and Severance)
MPG            Minimum Pension Guarantee
PROCAPTE    Programna de Capitalizacio n Temporal
(Temporary Capitalization Program)
SAR            Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro (Retirement Savings System)
STPS           Secretaria de Tranajo y Prevision Social
SECOFI         Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
SHCP           Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico.
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SIEFORE        Sociedad de Inversiones Especializadas de Fondos Para el Retiro
(Specialized Pension Fund).
Vice President:                              Shahid Javed Burki (LCRVP)
Country Management Unit Director:            Olivier Lafourcade (LCC1IC)
Sector Management Unit Director:             Krishna Challa (Acting, LCSFP)
Task Manager:                                Gloria M. Grandolini (LCSFP)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM LOAN (CSDP ID
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROG,RAM  SUMMARY ................................................................                           Hi
I.   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXTAND FINANCING REQUIRE'MENTS .......................................I
II    THE GOVERNVMENT'S CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS REFORMPROGRAM  .................................3
A. Genesis and Objectives of the Pension Reform ................................................................3
B. The Government's Medium-Term  Program ................................................................4
C. World Bank Stupport: A Phased Reform  Approach ................................................................6
D   Key Accomplishments under the First Phase of the Contractual Savings Reform ...........................7
I11   THE SECOND PHASE OF THE CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS PROGRAM . ................................. 11
A. Implementation and Consolidation of the 1997 Pension Reform ....................................................... 11
Regulatoiry Framework ................................................................                   11
Operation and Efficiency of the New Pension System ............................................................... 13
Transfer of SAR 92 balances ...............................................................              22
Investment Policies and Risk Management ...............................................................  23
Supervision and Enforcement ................................................................             27
Disability and Life ...............................................................                      29
Update of Fiscal Costs of the Transition ...............................................................  31
B. INFONAVIT ...............................................................                                        33
C. Preparatory work for the Public and State Pension Systems .............................................................. 38
D. Public Information ...............................................................                               40
E. Complementary Financial Market Reforms ...............................................................           41
Banking Sector ...............................................................                           41
Mutual Funds ...............................................................                             41
Voluntary Pension Plans ............................................................... 42
Development of Long-Term  Instruments and Financial Services ............................................ 42
IV. BANKASSISTANCE STRATEGY    ..43
A. Overall Assistance Strategy ......................................                                               43
B. Coordination with IMF ......................................                                                     44
C. Coordination wiith IDB ......................................                                                    44
V.  THE PROP0OSED LOAN ......................................                                                       45
A. Loan Size and Proposed Tranche Conditionality ......................................                             45
B. Technical Assistance ......................................                                                       46
C. Disbursement and Auditing ......................................                                                  47
D. Lessons Learned ......................................                                                            47
E. Monitoring and Reporting ......................................                                                  48
F. Benefits and Risks ........................                                                                       48
G. Program Objective Categories ........................ 50
VL RECOMMENDATION .........................                                                                         51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
I.    Letter of Sector Policy
II.    Matrix of Policy Actions
III.   Technical Annex
IV.   Investment and Risk Management in the Reformed System
V      Complementary Financial Sector Reforms
VI.   Economic Indicators
Vil.  Balance of Payments
VIII  External Capital and Debt
IX.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
X.    Mexico at a Glance
XI.   Supplementary Data Sheet
Project Team:   Gloria Grandolini (Team Leader - LCSFP); John Stein (Deputy Team Leader), Miguel Navarro, P.S.
Srinivas, Truman Packard, Baralides Alberdi, Cara Zappala (LCSFP); Fernando Montes-Negret,
Paulo Vieira da Cunha, Joost Draaisma (LCC 1 C); Rudy Van Puymbroeck (LEGLA); Olivia Mitchell
(Consultant - Wharton School); Steve Weisbrod (Consultant)
Peer Reviewers: Estelle James (DECRG); Afsaneh Mashayekhi Beschloss (IMDDR)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM LOAN (CSDP II)
PROPOSED LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
BORROWER:         Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos, SNC (BANOBRAS).
GUARANTOR:    United Mexican States.
AMOUNT:           US$400 million
TERMS:            The loan is proposed to be a fixed rate single currency loan in US dollars,
with a maturity of up to fifteen years.
OBJECTIVES:    The proposed loan would support the second phase of the Government's
Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP), which is designed to:
(a) increase the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security
system and gradually lead to greater effective coverage; (b) implement a
financially viable pension system; (c) limit the fiscal impact of the current
pension system; (d) raise the level of institutional savings and improve the
allocative efficiency of domestic savings; and (e) enhance capital market
development by stimulating greater private financial intermediation.
DESCRIPTION:   The first phase of the reform focused on the establishment of the legal,
regulatory, and institutional framework for the reform of the country's old
age security system.  The second phase concentrates on the actual
implementation of the reformed pension system. Specifically, the second
phase of the CSDP supported by the proposed loan (CSDP II), included:
(a) implementing, consolidating, and fine-tuning the reformed system for
private sector workers by: (i) ensuring a flexible and responsive regulatory
framework; (ii) initiating operation of the reformed system and increasing
its efficiency; (iii) transferring SAR92 balances from the Central Bank to
individual AFORE accounts; (iv) fine-tuning investment policies and
improving risk management; (v) strengthening supervision and
enforcement; and (vi) initiating payment of disability and survivors benefits
by private insurers; (b) updating estimates of the fiscal costs of transition;
(c) deepening reforms to INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns on the
housing sub-account; (d) advancing in the technical preparatory work for
the reform of the public pension systems; (e) sustaining public confidence
through education and information; and (f) advancing in the
implementation of complementary financial market initiatives.



- iv-
BENEFITS:          Overall, the program will lay the basis for a marked increase in the
volume of institutional savings and provide the institutional basis through
which domestic savings can be channeled to productive investment. It
will also lead to the creation of a new class of institutional investors and a
new set of longer-term instruments. Pension and social security reform
will move the actuarially bankrupt defined-benefit system to a fully
funded defined contribution scheme.   Public confidence will be
strengthened, as workers will no longer view their contributions as a tax
to provide benefits to current pensioners; instead, they will view these
contributions as a means to build personal wealth. The separation of the
pension and health sector schemes will result in pressure for greater
efficiency in the delivery of public health benefits. Reforrns in the
insurance industry will create a larger class of insurance products such as
annuities, life and disability and pre-paid medical insurance. Reforms to
improve Mexico's legal framework for mutual funds, secured lending and
asset backed securities will deepen the capital market over time and
broaden the base for domestic savings. In addition, over the longer term,
as pension funds increase their equity fund investments, they will become
major catalysts for improved corporate governance.
RISKS:             The reform could lead to higher fiscal costs if the savings generated from
defined wage contributions do not earn an adequate real rate of return.
These fiscal risks arise from the Government's continued guarantee of a
minimum pension benefit to everyone participating in the social security
system at the time of retirement. Without the housing fund component
earning a positive real rate of return, these risks are high, making
INFONAVIT reforms key to the scheme's sustainability. Given the legal
limitation on investment in foreign securities, the success of domestic
capital market reforms are also crucial to the success of the pension
reform especially because of the weakened state of the banking system,
which is currently the only major private source of financial assets. Low
real rates of return on the average pension fund's assets are also likely to
increase the moral hazard associated with providing a minimum pension
guarantee by encouraging contributor preference for high risk pension
investments.
The risks of political pressures to reverse fiscal management policies will
always exist but are mitigated by Mexico's growth potential over the
medium term. On the banking side, specific programs are in place to
increase the capitalization of the banking system while the overall level
of supervision  has improved  markedly.   CNBV's strengthened
supervisory role for INFONAVIT should ensure the viability of its
operational and financial restructuring program. All the above factors
will be important for improving the likelihood that pension funds will
earn reasonable real rates of return, thus reducing moral hazard concerns.



POVERTY
CATEGORY:           Not Applicable.
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENT:  The proposed loan will be disbursed in a single tranche of US$400
million upon loan effectiveness (October 1998).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND C'ONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM LOAN
TO BANOBRAS WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
1.1   I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Loan to the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pzublicos, SNC (BANOBRAS) with the
guarantee of the United Mexican States, in the amount of US$400 million to support the second
phase of the Government's Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II) which focuses
on the implementation of the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for the reform of the
country's old age security system. The loan would be single currency loan at the Bank's
standard fixed rate, with a maturity of up to 15 years, and would be disbursed in a single trariche
of US$400 million.
I. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
1.2   Recent Economic Developments and Prospects. The Mexican economy rebounded in
1996-97, following the financial crisis of end-1994 and the severe recession of 1995 when GDP
fell by 6.2 percent and domestic investment dropped by an excess of 30 percent. In 1996, real
GDP rose by 5.2 percent reflecting continued export expansion and a strong recovery in
investment. The implementation of tight financial policies led to a near halving of inflation, a
significant lowering of nominal interest rates, and a greater stability of the peso. Investor
sentiment improved, leading to a substantial rise in foreign direct investment, a marked
improvement in Mexico's access to international capital markets, and a substantial increase in
international reserves. Preliminary data suggest a consolidation of the economic recovery in
1997, while inflation continues to decline. Real GDP growth reached 7 percent in the year with
another healthy expansion of investment in excess of 20 percent.
1.3   As other ermerging market economies, Mexico was jolted by the events in Southeast Asia
in the second half of 1997. But, in Mexico, the contagion effects from Southeast Asia were so
far relatively small when compared to events in other emerging market economies. Areas of
vulnerability of the Mexican economy to adverse external developments are likely to be found in
(i) the international oil price,  (ii) capital flows to emerging markets and (iii) trade
competitiveness.
1.4   Mexico's external accounts experienced a marked improvement since 1994. Exports
boomed in 1995 prompted by the large change in the exchange rate and by the contraction in
domestic demand; and these same forces led to an opposite impact on imports. With the
expansion of domestic output and demand as of 1996, imports recovered rapidly whereas export
growth was reduced to more sustainable levels. The trade balance observed a surplus in 1995
and 1996, of 7.1 and 6.5 billion dollar respectively, which diminished rapidly to 0.6 billion dollar
in 1997 and is likely to become negative over the next few years.



2                                                                     PREsIDENT7SREPORT
1.5   A steady appreciation of the real exchange rate has been observed over the past two and
half years and can be attributed mainly to a resumption of capital flows. The combination of an
appreciating real exchange rate and growing domestic absorption contributed to a reversal in the
trade account and an increasing deficit on the current account. In 1997, the deficit in the current
account exceeded US$ 7.3 billion, and it is expected that it will continue to expand in 1998.
Nevertheless, on balance, the level of the deficit (at about 2-3 percent of GDP), and of external
borrowing, is prudent and consistent with a solid long-term creditworthiness position.
1.6   Underlying the strong performance of the external accounts and of private sector has been
the supportive role of government. The operations of the public sector resulted in an increase in
the primary surplus from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1995-1996, in a
context of overall fiscal balance which was prolonged in 1997. Despite declines of government
expenditures reflected in transfers to public enterprises, lower spending on wages and salaries,
and a rephasing of some capital projects, expenditure on social programs was safeguarded.
Monetary policy has supported the fiscal stance and has focused, primarily, on disinflation.
Monthly rates of inflation have been on a declining trend since end-1995 and, as a result, the
annual rate of inflation has fallen from 52 percent in 1995 to 28 percent in 1996 and to less than
16 percent in 1997.
1.7   The short- and medium-term prognosis for the conduct of macro policy, hence for the
economy as a whole, is positive. In 1998, real growth is expected to slow down to a more
sustainable rate of about 4.8 percent with continued expansion in investment and progress in
disinflation. However, the public sector balance is expected to deteriorate for structural and
policy-induced reasons, even as the fiscal authorities come under increasing political pressure for
authorizing expenditure increases and/or revenue reductions.
1.8   Justification for Adjustment Lending. The recent decline of international oil prices has
led to additional pressures on public sector revenues, with oil income responsible for an average
of 38 percent of total public sector revenue. The lower levels of oil prices observed in particular
as of December 1997, prompted the Government to announce expenditure reductions of an
amount of 0.7 percent of GDP for 1998 in order to maintain its public deficit target at 1.25% of
GDP. While the estimated public revenue reduction to date has been mainly on account of
external sales and those domestic sales that are contractually tied to price developments on world
markets (e.g. natural gas and fuel-oil), a longer lasting weakness of international oil prices will
increase pressures to reflect part of the international price decline in other oil related products
sold on the domestic market, such as gasoline and diesel.
1.9   The contractual savings reform program as implemented by the Mexican government as
of 1997, adequately addresses one of the major areas of public contingent liabilities. The reform,
covering workers in the private sector, is causing a near term pressure on public finances with an
estimated annual fiscal cost of 1.5 percent of GDP. Furthermore, other quasi-fiscal losses and
contingent liabilities were allowed to expand and will require additional fiscal outlays in the near
future. These losses arise mainly from the successive bailouts and/or rescheduling of the debts
held by private banks, firms, households (mortgages and credit card debt), tollways operators,
etc., in the wake of the 1995 financial crisis. The total cost of the financial sector rescue



MEXco - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM(CSDP II)                  3
programs are now estimated at 14 percent of GDP, or a near term annual pressure on public
finances of at least another 0.6 percent of GDP.
1.10   Admittedly, at the level of 40 percent of GDP, Mexico now holds one of the lowest
levels of public debt among OECD countries. Yet it also faces the unique challenge of providing
an adequate social and productive infrastructure for its expanding and aspiring population, and
for its increasingly competitive firms. Public investment now stands at about 3 percent of GDP
per year, and this may be insufficient to meet future challenges. Moreover, an overhaul of the
fiscal-federalist system is overdue, with a significant shift in the relative balance of fiscal
capabilities between the federation and the states. The combination of greater pressure on
expenditure with an unavoidable recognition of contingent losses could threaten the medium
term fiscal prograin.
1.11  In these conditions, maintaining fiscal discipline is essential as is the policy of sustaining
a careful balance between domestic and foreign sources of funding of the fiscal deficit. Given
the success of its recent macroeconomic performance, and the credibility of its policies, Mexico
again enjoys an arnple access to international financial markets and, thus, did not face a funding
constraint for its balance of payments requirements. Nevertheless, the current account deficit for
1998 is expected to be approximately 3% of GDP, and could in fact be higher. Hence,
maintaining adequate access to medium-term financing as provided by IBRD is an essential
element of the Government's strategy. Moreover, the Government faces a seriously binding
fiscal constraint. rhe current program of reforms would exacerbate the difficulties to be faced by
the government in abiding to this constraint. World Bank support would allow the authorities
more room to maneuver. It would safeguard the limits of domestic borrowing and improve the
overall quality of the medium-term fiscal response.
II.  THE GOVERNMENT'S CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS REFORM PROGRAM
2.1   This section presents the genesis and overall objectives of the Government's contractual
savings reform  and its medium-term  program.  This section also highlights the main
characteristics of the World Bank's support through a phased reform approach. Finally, it
summarizes accornplishments in the initial stage of contractual savings reform.
A.   Genesis and Objectives of the Pension Reform
2.2   Since coming into power, the Zedillo administration recognized that Mexico's contractual
savings system  suffered from  several weaknesses.   These have significant economic
consequences that limit the viability of the social insurance system, constrain the development of
the country's financial sector, and limit prospects for sustainable economic growth. The
Government of Mexico has embarked on a major and important reform of the old age security
system which should prove beneficial both to individuals, through the opportunity to obtain
increased retirement income, and to Mexico's economic growth prospects over the medium and
long term.
2.3   Demographic changes, rising health costs, as well as an increased level of benefits not
properly backed in sufficient actuarial reserves indicated that the public pay-as-you-go (PAYG)
pension system operating in Mexico, would become financially unsustainable by the end of the



4                                                                   PRESIDENT'SREPORT
decade. A limited and failed attempt at reform was made in 1992 by establishing a mandatory
individual retirement savings account (Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro - SAR92) - with
mandatory 2% defined contribution individual accounts - and by raising the contribution quota to
the Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social - IMSS). The
worsening financial situation of IMSS, labor market distortions, unfairness linked to the benefits'
scheme, and the need to generate higher domestic savings - particularly after the December 1994
crisis - led to a growing consensus for pension reformn.
2.4   The reform of contractual savings is one of the key goals in the Government's National
Development Plan (1995-2000). It is a medium-term program aimed at:
* increasing the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security system
gradually leading to greater effective coverage;
* implementing a financially viable pension system;
1 limiting the fiscal impact of the current pension system and ensure transparency of the
fiscal costs of transition;
* enhancing financial market development and reducing volatility by stimulating
greater private financial intermediation and increasing the array of financial
instruments and contracts available; and
l  contributing to enhance the allocative efficiency of domestic and, in the longer-term,
to raising aggregate savings.
B.   The Government's Medium-Term Program
2.5   The initial stage of reform. The shift of a country's pension system to a more equitable
and financially sustainable one and the implementation of complementary financial sector reforms,
is a long-term process. The Mexican Government could not afford - financially and politically - to
tackle all aspects of the reform in one fell swoop. Also, the fine-tuning of the reform depends on
the outcome of the implementation of the initial phase. The Government decided to initially focus
its efforts towards the reform of the old age insurance scheme for private sector workers. During
1995-96 the Government implemented a number of policy actions that resulted in shift from a
public PAYG, defined-benefit system to a privately managed, defined-contribution system. Also,
the Government set up the supervisory framework for the private pension fund administrators and
issued the investment rules to be followed by the pension funds. Section C below summarizes the
key accomplishments of this initial stage of reform implemented during 1995-1996, and supported
by the World Bank's fist Contractual savings development Program Loan (CSDP I).
2.6   The remaining agenda. Full realization of the objectives of the reform depend on the
consolidation and fine-tuning of the reforms initiated during 1995-96, on maintaining the
necessary flexibility to cope with implementation challenges, as well as addressing a number of
design limitations. The remaining agenda needs to address the following strategic issues:
c Increase the efficiency of the reformed system to lower administrative costs and
augment the amount of funds available for investment. This challenge entails:
the successful operation of the AFORE industry, including authorization, affiliation,
and switching;



MEaCO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA vINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                  5
* the smooth and efficient operation of the new centralized system for collection,
individualization of accounts, and record-keeping;
* The development of pension performance benchmarks for investment return and
pension plan service.
* Ensure that CONSAR continues delivering:
* A flexible regulatory environment - able to respond to the changing needs of the
reformed system. Key short-term actions include the issuance of rules relating to: (i)
switching among AFOREs (traspasos); (ii) disclosure; (iii) transfer of SAR 92
balances into individual accounts; and (iv) orderly consolidation of the industry; and
* A strong supervisory framework with enhanced enforcement capacity.
1 Create the conditions for adequate risk-adjusted returns for AFOREs. Critical to
contain fiscal costs for transition generation and to ensure adequate retirement income to new
generations. The focus should be on:
* fine-tuning the investment regime and expanding investment opportunities; and
* Strengthening risk management systems.
D Design and implement mechanisms to ensure a competitive return to the contributions
channeled to the housing sub-account (INFONAVIT). The reform will not fully succeed
unless adequate returns can be assured on the 5% contribution to INFONAVIT - which
represents 37% of total contribution for a worker earning the average wage.
> Improve the efficiency of the provision of life and disability insurance and foster
continued delvelopment of the insurance industry and annuities markets. Disability and
life continues to be provided by IMSS with a fixed charge of 2.5% of payroll. The cost is
high compared to that observed in other Latin American countries that have opted for
allowing competition by pension fund mangers and the purchase of the insurance from an
insurance company.
*  Continue monitoring of fiscal cost estimates, including sensitivity analysis. The Mexican
plan is riskier on the fiscal side than the approach followed in other Latin American countries
because the Government's liability is uncertain. The reformed system allows for a lifetime
switch between the old and new system for every transition worker. Mexican fiscal costs, as
compared to Chile's, for example, could be (i) higher, if returns on individual contributions
(AFORES + INFONAVIT) are not high enough to ensure that a large number of transition
workers choose, at retirement, the new system, but could be (ii) lower, because Mexico is
saving the cost of recognition bonds if the market value at retirement of individual
accumulated balances exceeds accrued benefits under the old PAYG system. Also, the
Government did not restructure the current PAYG system as part of the 1997 reform and it
continues to be a nominal system with many structural weaknesses that make the results of
the reform program very sensitive to the future rate of inflation.
* Sustain the public confidence in the system by building public support and confidence in
the new pension system so as to avoid evasion and attract informal workers.
* Accelerate complementary financial sector reforms to ensure an adequate supply of
quality financial assets available for pension fund investment and support the development of
financial infrastructure needs (such as custody services and rating agencies).



6                                                                 PRESIDENT'SPREPORT
* Expand the reform to Public Sector workers. The current reform did not contemplate
changes to the ISSSTE, PEMEX, other parastatals, armed forces, and the state pension plans.
Hence, the portability constraint across private and public sector workers' pension plans will
remain for now an issue along with the financial disequilibrium to be faced in the future by
these pension funds.
* Expand coverage. One of the longer-term objectives of the Mexican reform is to extend
coverage and minimize the incidence of old-age poverty. Even in Chile, where the AFP
system has been in full operation for nearly 16 years, that portion of the economically active
population that is informally employed has increased from 49.9% in 1990 to 51.2% in 1995.
This suggests that the removal of labor-market distortions via pension reform, may be a
necessary but not sufficient condition either for formalization of the factors of production, or
for widespread participation in the privatized pension system.
* Allow investment in equities and in foreign securities. The explicit legal prohibition on
investment in foreign securities was introduced by Congress as an amendment to the draft
legislation proposed by the Executive branch. This prohibition is based on the argument that
it would not be desirable to channel abroad long-term savings required by the domestic
economy. However, this prohibition restricts the possibility of diversifying the investment
portfolio and inhibits diversification of country risk.
C.   World Bank Support: A Phased Reform Approach
2.7   The World Bank's support in the area of contractual savings in Mexico began in 1990
with the preparation of an economic report, which provided a detailed analysis of contractual
savings issues. The proposed loan is the outcome of a close dialogue between the Bank and the
Government on the development of Mexico's financial sector and the need to improve the
allocation of financial resources and set the basis for the effective channeling of domestic
savings. The Bank's participation accelerated in late-1994 with the provision of advice and
technical support in the area of pension reform and capital market development. This culminated
with the decision to support the Mexican Government's reform objectives through a series of
one-tranche adjustment operations.
2.8   To provide a strategic framework, this section highlights: (i) policy actions supported
under the first Contractual Savings Development Program Loan (CSDP I) - approved in
December 13, 1996; (ii) policy actions supported by the proposed CSDP II; and (iii) the key
benchmarks of further progress in addressing remaining issues (para. 2.6) which could be
supported in follow-up operation (s). The Policy Matrix in Annex II provides additional details
on the medium-term framework.
¢ 1995-96policyreformssupported by CSDPI (paras.2.9-2.19):
/ established the legal and regulatory framework to shift the pension system for private
sector workers to a defined contribution, privately-managed scheme;
/ issued the investment management rules for the pension funds;
v strengthened the supervisory agency (CONSAR);
/ estimated fiscal transition costs, including sensitivity analysis;
,/ took first steps to improve the financial performance of INFONAVIT;



MExIco - SECOND CONrRACTUJALSAviNGsDEvELopMENTPRoGRAM(CSDP 11)                  7
V initiatecl public awareness campaign to educate the public and bolster support for the
reform; and
V initiatecl the implementation of complementary financial market initiatives.
*  January 1997-April 1998 policy reforms supported by the proposed CSDP II (para. 3.1):
V  implemented, consolidated, and fine-tuned the reform to the pension system for private
sector workers;
/  successiully initiated operation of centralized collection and record-keeping system;
V advanced in the reform of INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns on the housing sub-
account;
/ updated estimates and sensitivity analysis of the fiscal costs of the reform;
/  advanced in the technical preparatory work for the public sector and state pension
systems;
/  sustained public confidence through education and information; and
V  continued implementation of complementary financial market reforms.
. Future Agenda for World Bank support - benchmarks for a third phase:
*  demonstrate clear results in complying with INFONAVIT reform targets as specified
in the Convenio;
D  strengthen CONSAR's independence;
*  introduce greater portfolio diversification including investment in equities;
D  design and implement measures to contain the administrative costs of the system;
D implement measures to reduce the cost of the disability and life insurance scheme;
. ensure the financial viability of the pension schemes for public sector workers; and
. identify specific actions to increase coverage if reformed system has no significant
impact.
D.   Key Accomplishments under the First Phase of the Contractual Savings Reform
2.9    The reform covers private sector workers and self-employed - approximately 12 million
contributors. These workers represent approximately 80% of the labor force in the formal sector. It
is estimated that approximately US$4 billion will flow into the system annually (Figure 1).
2.10    Along the lines of recent pension reform programs in Latin America, the Mexican design
is based on a multipillar approach to old age security. The reformed scheme consists of:
* a publicly managed first pillar with a redistributive objective providing a guaranteed
minimum pension equal to the indexed minimum wage for low-income workers
meetingJ the legal requirements;
*  a fully-funded second pillar with mandatory individual savings accounts and
competitive, but exclusive and specialized, mutual fund management, and
* a third pillar consisting of voluntary savings.
2.11  Legal Framework. In December 1995 the Mexican Congress approved legislation (the
new Social security law - Ley del Seguro Social) modifying the public PAYG, defined benefits



8                                                                   PRESIDENT'SREPORT
scheme to establish a privately managed, mandatory, defined contributions scheme permitting
private management for private sector workers affiliated to IMSS. A second legislative package on
the implementation of the reforms (the Pension Systems Law - Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para
el Retiro) was enacted in April 1996. Legislation was also approved in December 1996 to make the
legislative framework for the housing scheme (INFONAVIT) consistent with the new pension
system. The reform became effective on July 1, 1997.
i ~~~12
2  6
2.12 Institutional responsibilities. Individual retirement funds (SIEFORES -Sociedades de
Inversion Especializadas en Fondos para el Retiro) are administered by investment management
firms (AFORES - Administradores de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro) established by the
private sector and IMSS. INFONAVIT retains the 5% housing sub-account and will provide
returns based on its operating surplus. IMSS, in addition to managing one of the AFOREs,
continues to be the legal enforcer of all contributions and collections, the provider of benefits to
transition workers choosing the old PAYG system; and the administrator of disability and life
insurance - although benefits are provided by private insurers.
2.13 Eligibility, contributions, and benefits. The reform separated the old age, severance,
and disability and life system (JVCM - Jnvalidez, Vejez, Cesantia, y Muerte) into the Old Age
and Severance insurance (RCV - Seguro de Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Ve]ez) and the
Disability and Life Insurance (IV - Seguro de Invalidez y Vida). Each worker's individual
retirement account consists of two compulsory sub-accounts, the RCV sub-account managed by
the AFORES, and the INFONAVIT sub-account. Under the reform, contributions to old age and



MExCO- SECOND CONTRACTUAlLSA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                   9
severance in the AFORES' individual accounts equal 6.5% of a worker's wage and a
Government contribution known as the social quota. The social quota equals between 1 and
5.5% of the worker's wage depending on the level of each workers' wage and will be indexed to
the July 1, 1997 CPI. On average it will be equivalent to 2.2% of wages. It will be transferred to
each worker's account to which active contributions are being made. Transition workers have
the right to transfer their past SAR92 balances into the chosen AFORE. Contributions to the
INFONAVIT sub-account, equal to 5% of a worker's salary, will continue to be invested in
INFONAVIT housing. Total contributions for retirement, therefore, amount to between 12.0 and
17 percent of a worker's wage - for the worker earning the average wage (approximately 2.8
times the minimurn wages) contributions represent approximately 13.5% of the wage.
2.14 For workers who do not choose an AFORE, contributions go to a Central Account
(Cuenta Concentradora) kept at the Central Bank (Banco de Mexico) for a maximum period of
four years. A 2%Xo real return on accumulated balances is guaranteed. At the end of the four
years, CONSAR will assign an AFORE to each affiliate.
2.15  Benefits uader the new system fall into two groups: benefits to new workers and benefits
to transition workers. For new workers - defined as those beginning their contributions to the
system after July 1, 1997 - benefits will consist of the accumulated balances in their individual
retirement accounts (AFORES plus INFONAVIT accounts) or the Minimum Pension Guarantee
(MPG) to equal to the minimum wage in Mexico City as of July 1, 1997, indexed to the
Consumer Price Index (CPI). At retirement, workers will choose between a gradual withdrawal
option or buying en annuity from an insurance company.
2.16  Transition workers are defined as those workers contributing to the PAYG system prior
to July 1, 1997. Although all workers began contributing to their new individual retirement
accounts, transition workers retain the right to the benefits of the old system exclusively in the
case of retirement (lifetime switch option). The lifetime switch option allows transition
generation workers to choose at retirement the higher of the acquired benefits under the old
PAYG system and the accumulatfu balances in their individual retirement accounts under the
new system (AFCIRES plus INFONAVIT accounts). Accumulated balances in the INFONAVIT
sub-account (accumulated between 1992 and August 1997) and the SAR92 balances
(accumulated between 1992 and August 1997) will be surrendered to transition workers upon
retirement regard:less of which pension scheme they opt for. If the old system is chosen, the
MPG is equal to one Mexico City minimum wage indexed to the actual minimum wage.
2.17 The Government provides the MPG to both transition and new workers in the event that
the value of the worker's accumulated savings in all retirement accounts is inadequate to provide
for the minimum pension. The Government contribution will only be equal to the difference
between the MPG and funds available in the individual retirement accounts. The years of
contributions required for eligibility for the MPG were raised from 10 to 25 years (1250 weeks).
2.18  Supervision. The Pension System Law gives CONSAR (Comisi6n Nacional del Sistema
de Ahorro para el Retiro) broad powers to set and enforce rules and standards for all aspects of
operation of the reformed pension system. CONSAR has full supervisory authority over
AFORES and SIEFORES, as well as supervisory authority over other participants in the pension



10                                                                              PRESIDENT' SREPORT
system (such as banks and insurance companies) to the extent the activities of such entities
involve the pension system.
2.19 Administration. The key characteristics of the AFORE industry are as follows:
*  Nature and control of AFOREs. AFORES are single-purpose business corporations with
independent capitalization and minimum capital and special investment reserve requirements.
The paid in capital and special reserve are required to be invested in shares of the SIEFORES
managed by the AFORE.
*  Foreign ownership. Regulations allow for a class of AFORES majority-controlled by foreign
financial institutions (but not individuals or industrial concerns) to up to 49% of the capital of
the AFORE. Financial institutions from NAFTA countries, Colombia, Costa Rica and
Venezuela may establish majority-owned AFORES.
*  Conflicts of interest. The Pension Systems Law establishes strict limitations on permissible
transactions between AFORES and affiliated financial institutions and issuers.
*  Initially Single Class of SIEFORES.  The Pension Systems Law authorizes CONSAR to
permit each AFORE to manage and offer to its customers a variety of SIEFORES with
different portfolio compositions, provided that each AFORE offers at least one SIEFORE
whose portfolio is composed "fundamentally" of securities whose returns are indexed to the
Mexican CPI. There are no minimum return requirements for the AFORES. At the outset
CONSAR will allow each AFORE to establish only a single SIEFORE, "fundamentally"
invested in indexed instruments. CONSAR intends eventually to permit each AFORE to
offer customers a variety of equity and debt funds with distinct investment policies. This
decision to restrict each AFORE to only a single debt fund at the outset reflects the
government's desire to simplify supervision in the first year of pension fund operations,
reduce potential confusion among the public and build public support by avoiding volatility.
COmparson wit.I OtherLatin Aerican 
The efor,ms beui--carried out in Mexico, while broa dly similar to.those adopted in 'other Latin American countries,
differ in-sevyra!s ignffiLcant.ways (See. Table. A2 inthe- TechicmaI Annex for -'details).  A- number of these
cArotentics,to eated to changes, which -re no  b  g  nser the. Chilean case:
*   ligibility requirements; 'The number of2years of contributions 'obe li  enefit of the bew system
is-hiherJr M,exica (at 25, year%) than i  othe r recent reforms.  -
*Demise of conirdbutions to PA4YG system and lifetime switch option. The option to continue.to contribute to a
PAYG-'old'iag eandc severance insurance .plan..ha .ben - conpletely 'eliminated, even for transition 'workers.
tiansition workers 'wIll have a  oce on   b   e      the tine of retirement, but not on the contribution side.
Th~iw "Mexican.'Govermnrtdid not issue recognition bonds (as in Chile) or .compensatory pensions (as in
Arkentiria) to explicitly value current workers -past.pension contributions.
AMR a  all6we to opera e loIO                            ato ghAinitiall only one has been permitte
fiiily:of funds allod   _                                            * i
* 'Switching betwe  M0ORs is limited.to one per year. >--
2 .Th4e%qv:does not:;establish any minmwum return'benchmark (nor absolute nor relative) for funds managed by
* o TheLqw establishes freedom  ofeoininissions and fee ,rtru ;e, with discounts allowed.
*.  Tere''is a cntra ized contribution -'s~ collection agency and centralized data bank privately owned. -



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II) 11
IH. THE SECOND PHASE OF THE CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS PROGRAM
3.1   The policy actions supported by the proposed second Contractual Savings Development
Program Loan (CSDP II) include:
(A) implementing, consolidating, and fine-tuning the reformed pension system for
private sector workers by:
(1) Ensuring a flexible and responsive regulatory framework:
(2) Initiating operation of the reformed system and increasing its efficiency:
(a) AFORE industry authorization, affiliation, and switching;
(b) smooth and efficient operation of new centralized system for
collection, individualization of accounts, and record keeping;
(c) Identifying opportunities for cost cutting and development of pension
performance benchmarks;
(3) Transferring SAR92 balances from the Central Bank to individual AFORE
accounts;
(4) Fine-tuning investment policies and improving risk management;
(5) Strengthening supervision and enforcement; and
(6) Initiating provision of disability and survivors benefits by private insurers.
(B) updating estimates of the fiscal costs of transition, including sensitivity analysis;
(C) deepeining reforms to INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns on the housing sub-
account;
(D) advancing in the technical preparatory work for the public (ISSSTE) and State
pension systems by finalizing in the actuarial and financial diagnosis and evaluating
alternative reforn strategies;
(E) sustaining public confidence through education and information; and
(F) advancing in the implementation of complementary financial market initiatives
in: (1) the banking sector; (2) mutual funds; (3) occupational and voluntary pension
plans; and (4) the development of new instruments in the long-term Government debt
market, the corporate debt market, and the housing mortgage market.
The main issues in these policy areas and the Government's response are described below.
A. Implementation and Consolidation of the 1997 Pension Reform
Al. Regulatory Framework
3.2   Timely and flexible regulation of pension funds by CONSAR will play a major role in
ensuring the success of the reform. Though justifiable as initial conditions or explained by the
fragility of the financial sector and political constraints, some features of the initial regulatory
framework may limit the most productive long term investments and/or require more flexibility
as the system evolves. Short-term actions include the issuance by CONSAR of rules relating to:
(i) disclosure; (ii) administration of individual accounts in Central Account (Cuenta
Concentradora); (iii) limits in market share; (iv) switching among AFOREs (traspasos); (v)



12                                                                 PRESIDENT' sREPORT
collection; (vi) commissions; (vii) transfer of SAR 92 balances; (viii) investment management;
and (ix) sanctions.
3.3   To ensure the flexibility of the regulatory framework and to respond to additional
regulatory needs after the initial implementation of the reform, CONSAR has issued a number of
key regulations (Circulares) since January 1997 (see Technical Annex Table A13 for a listing of
key regulations issued by CONSAR as of March 13, 1998). This section will focus on
regulations relating to disclosure and administration of individual accounts still in the Central
Account. Rules and guidelines relating to the other areas are discussed later in the relevant
sections.
3.4   Disclosure. In the reformed system there are three main flows of information: from the
participants in the operation of the system (AFOREs, SIEFOREs, PROCESAR) to CONSAR;
from the AFOREs to the affiliates; and from CONSAR to the affiliates and to Congress (See
Table Al 3 in technical Annex for a list of reports required by CONSAR). The key regulations
issued by CONSAR relating to disclosure [Board Presentation la] include guidelines for:
o general information disclosure from entities involved in the operation of the system to
CONSAR (Circular 19-1 [11/17/97]);
* accounting and balance sheet information to be sent by AFOREs and SIEFOREs to
CONSAR (Circulars 12-1 [4/16/97] and 12-4 [3/11/98]);
* the monthly report to be sent by each AFORE to CONSAR (Circular 25-1 [12/11/97]);
* general information disclosure by AFOREs to affiliates and the public in general (Circular 9-
1 [1/10/97]);
• prospectus for each SIEFORE (Circulars 10-1 [1/14/97] and 10-2 [6/30/97]);
* Individual Statement to be sent to workers' with the financial performance and balances of
the AFORE and INFONAVIT accounts (Circular 8-2 [2/12/98]). A sample of the required
format is contained in Table Al4a of the Technical Annex; and
o Confidentiality of individual account information by entities involved in the operation of the
system (Circular 23-1 [12/2/97]).
3.5   "The AFORE maquiladora": administration of individual accounts still in the
Central Account. As of the end of February 1998, 2.3 million workers had not yet chosen an
AFORE and their accumulated balances are currently in the Cuenta Concentradora held at the
Central Bank (para 2.12). CONSAR has issued rules relating to the outsourcing of informnation
to workers in the Cuenta Concentradora (Circular 27-1 [2/20/98]) [Board presentation lb(i)].
This service is to be provided by.the AFOREs - under a scheme to be called AFORE
Maquiladora. The regulation also determines the principles upon which interested AFOREs will
be assigned these accounts (initially, it is based on the number of CURPs generated by the
AFORE as of September 30,1997). The AFORE maquiladora will charge a fee of 1. 15% of flows
(according to general guidelines issued by CONSAR in Circular 29-1 on February 27, 1998)
[Board Presentation lb(ii)]. These workers' individual accounts at the Central Bank will
continue to pay a return of 2% above inflation - compared to the 6% real return currently posted
on average by the AFOREs. It is expected that this system will foster additional affiliation to the



MExCO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAm (CSDP 11)                                  13
AFORE system, since it will allow the AFOREs to access the database of workers still remaining
in the Cuenta Concentradora.
K   ~  ~ab1et:~AOR     MIN OR !,.
4TLAWrtCQX| ~   "Q  Banca Promex (25%, ME), Banco del Atlantico (25%, ME), GBM, Valores Finamex
BANAMEX ~~ Grupo Financiero Banamex-Accival
QA ~'iC0MER  i   l M aGrupo Financiero Bancomer (51%, ME), Aetna International-AFP (33% US) Santa
Maria International (16%, CH)
BANCRECER       ~Bancrecer (5 1%, ME), Dresdner Pension Fund Holdings, Allianz Mexico (49%I)
BANORTE               Banorte (51%, ME), Belgica Insurance Holdings, Maatschappij Graafschap Holland N V
RITAL    ~ ~ ~ NGAmerica Insurance Holding
CAPITALI              GE Capital de Mexico, GE Capital Assurance Co.
qONFIAPINCIPAL Banca Confia (51%, ME), Principal International (49%, US)
QARANTE,              Banca Serfin (51%, ME), Citibank Mexico (40%, ME), AFP Habitat (9%, CH)
OE     S.             Seguros Genesis, Metropolitan Life Insurance
INRIJRSA  ~      Baco Inbursa (100%, ME), Cia. de Servicios Inbursa
mVT        ER         Inverlat (51%, ME), Bank of Nova Scotia, American International Group, Bank of Boston
Grupo Nacional Provincial (51%, ME), Banco Bilbao Vizcaya (25%, SP), Provida
Intemnacional (24%, CH)
SANTAN:DERIt          Banco Santander Mexicano (100%, ME), Santander Investments (SP)
Xit.P A.              Seguros Tepeyac, MAPFRE International
XXI                5~~~~MS, Aseguradora Hidalgo, IXE Grupo Financiero
Zurich Vida Compania de Seguros, Gabriel Monterrubio, Private Investors
Source: CONSAR
[a] partner listed first is either a Mexican company or the Mexican subsidiary of an international parent corporation
This partner is entitled to a 51% stake in the venture. ME: Mexico; US: Inited States; CH: Chile; SP: Spain
A2. Operation and Efficiency of the New Pension System
(a) AFORE industry authorization, affiliation, market share limits, and switching rules
3.6    Authorization process.  CONSAR  has authorized 17 AFOREs in a timely fashion,
ensuring that foreign-owned AFOREs receive equal treatment with Mexican-owned AFOREs
[Board presentation 2a] (Table 1 above).
3.7    Affiliation Process. CONSAR issued the general rules governing the affiliation contract
between the worker and his/her chosen AFORE on February 18, 1997 (Circular 11-1) [Board
Presentation 2bl. Since then, there has been an extremely positive initial response to the new
system - as demonstrated by the affiliation of over 98% of potential workers by end-February
1998 (Figure 2a) '. In early 1997, the expectation was for approximately 60% of potential IMSS
affiliates to choose an AFORE during the first year of operation of the system [Board
'Note that the size of the market was subsequently increased (para. 3.9).



14                                                                    PRESIDENT' SREPORT
Presentation 2c]. As of February 28, 1998 assets under management by the AFOREs totaled
P$13.7 billion - equivalent to approximately US$1.6 billion (Figure 2b).
42000000                                        0
000000                                          I 
1 0
0                                          0$ 60    a
~~~~S                  oE MonhlyToal f AffiliaKtest0IS okr    
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
I   2000 0I
'tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 s,w 
X   1l 50000
0000000
g  -E tSX   N I             E                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1
M~~~~~~~~'' s ~ A ~  ,m,- ,n,ell,<A ,,
3.8    Market share limits and concentration of the industry. The law stated that for four
years - beginning in 1997 - there would be a 17% maximum market share limit for each AFORE.
This limit could then be increase to 20% after 4 years. CONSAR issued regulations which
determine that the limit is determined in terms of number of workers affiliated to IMSS registered
in each AFORE. To assure that no AFORE receives an unfair competitive advantage, CONSAR



ME)CO - SECOND COYTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                            15
refrained from authorizing the first AFORES until it was able to grant simultaneous
authorizations to a significant number of competitors (Figures 3a and 3b).
14.0.
13.0 
12.0.
11.0L
10.0
C0 9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
2.00
2 .0
7.0
0.0
o 6.0 ~  ~     i                           .1 4
5.0.
4.0
E  3.0.
0.0
3.9 The originval estimate of the potential IMSS affiliates for 1998 - based upon which the
initial 17% limit on the market share of AFOREs was calculated - was 11.7 million workers.
During the initial months of implementation, it has became clear that this number did not include
"inactive" workers, i.e., those workers who affiliated to an AFORE but are not currently
contributing to the social security system. Inactive workers are currently estimated at



16                                                                      PRESIDENT' SREPORT
approximately 3.2 million workers. As a result, CONSAR will issue a circular specifying that
the actual market consists of the current active workers - contributing bimonthly - and those
IMSS workers that contributed to the system between 1992 and 1997 but are not currently
contributing to the new system. This entails an increase in the potential affiliates to the new
system to 14.82 million affiliates (Figure 4).
15.0a
14.0.
13.0.
12.0.
l  110 
10.0.
7*0 7.0
6.0.
5.0.
4.0.
2.0
2.0                                    r
AFORtE
3.10    Switching (Traspasos). CONSAR issued rules 24-1 (December 10, 1997) and 28-1
(January 8, 1998) regulating the switching of workers' accounts among AFOREs [Board
Presentation 2d]. A heated debate preceded the publication of these rules. As could be expected,
the smaller AFOREs felt that affiliates should be presented with as few barriers as possible in
order to be able to switch funds (e.g., avoid excessive bureaucracy). The larger AFOREs, on the
contrary, would have liked to see stronger barriers to switching. The experience of Chile and
Argentina - where almost 30% of total cost accounts for vendors (promotores) trying to
encourage switching among fund administrators - highlights the importance of regulating and
limiting the cost of this process. In this context, there is a consensus that the one year limitation
for switching - expect in cases where the commission structure is modified - is an improvement
over other reforms.  Tables A17a and A17b in the Technical Annex describe in detail the
switching scheme - through an intermediary or directly between AFOREs, respectively.



MExWCo - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA ViNGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                 17
(b) Smooth anad efficient operation of new centralized system for collection,
individualizationL of accounts, and record keeping
3.11  Mexico decided to follow a centralized scheme for contributions collection and
information gathering. Despite its theoretical advantages, the Argentinean experience has shown
that this kind of scheme might lead to operational and incentive problems. The Mexican version
of this process faced a critical problem in the worker's ID number - which was one of the key
factors behind the failure of the SAR 1992 reform. There are other risks present in the
Argentinean scheme that may appear in Mexico, increasing operation costs and reducing the
workers' balances: delays in the flow of money and information due to excessive operations or
identification problems in the national data base.
3.12  The enactment by the Assembly on October 28, 1996 of legislation postponing the
implementation of the social security reform from January 1 to July 1, 1997 sought to address
this concern. At that time, the Government felt it was not ready with the unique identification
system, which is essential to avoid evasion, ghosting etc, and had not yet addressed all issues
relating to systems for collection of contributions and their transfer to the AFORES. Also, at that
time, the Mexican authorities, decided that it was necessary to install a more powerful system for
individualization of accounts and to move towards a centralized and more reliable and
accountable computer-oriented scheme for the payment of contributions.
3.13  The objectives of the integrated collection system are to guarantee the quality of the
information in the individualized accounts; integrate collection of all social security payments
(including INFONAVIT contributions) in a unique contribution payment system; facilitate
payment by employers; and facilitate conciliation and control by social security institutions. In
fact, in a fully funded defined contribution system, information is as critical as the actual funds -
a payment without the correct information will not be deposited in the workers' account. The
specific operational requirements were: (i) a unique identification number for each worker; (ii) a
unique system for compliance with employers' obligations; (iii) the existence of appropriate and
homogeneous infi^astructure in the institutions receiving the payments; (iv) a centralized system
for the identification of individual accounts; (v) an efficient system for the reconciliation of
payments and data; (vi) computerized entry system for employers to avoid inconsistent
information; (vii) coordination among participants to the system; and (viii) a telecommunications
network to integrate all participants to the process.
3.14  Individualization and record-keeping responsibilities have been given as a concession to a
privately managed data collection firm (PROCESAR) that receives daily information on fund
flows and affiliates. PROCESAR was given authorization to manage the system's data base,
including the following obligations: (i) receive the information from the authorized banks on
payments received; (ii) reconcile this information with the funds deposited; and (iii)
individualize the lunds and ensure that they are deposited in the appropriate AFORE.
3.15  The basic tax collection activity for pension funds in Mexico requires that each covered
private sector employer determines what each employee owes, and then deducts this amount
from each employee's gross salary. At month's end, and within a pre-determinated number of
working days, the employer must deposit the amount owed at special authorized banks



18                                                                PRESIDENT'SREPORT
(Entidades receptoras). Individual AFORES and their agents do not have an active role to play
in the week-in and week-out grass-roots tax collection effort in Mexico (unlike in Chile). Table
A10 in the Technical Annex contains a summary chart of the information and money flows and
the institutions involved in the process.
3.16  To ensure the smooth and efficient operation of the collection and record-keeping
process, the following actions have been taken by the authorities:
.  Regulatory framework. CONSAR has issued the following Circulares regulating the
functioning of the collection and record-keeping system: 7-1 (1/9/97); 16-1(6/30/97); 20-1
(11/11/97); 22-1 (12/10/97); 20-2 (3/2/98) [Board Presentation 2e].
*  Unique identification number. In terms of account individualization, it was decided to
initially utilize the IMSS and gradually move to a more reliable identification number called
Clave Unica de Registro de Poblacion (CURP). The CURP is expected to eliminate
duplication of accounts and diminish transaction costs. As of February 28, 1998 over 4
million CURPs had been generated - equivalent to approximately 34% of potential accounts
(Table A12 - Technical Annex) [Board Presentation 211.
*  Computerized collection system. A Unique Autodetermination System (SUA - Sistema
Unico de Autodeterminacion) was developed and agreed upon by all relevant parties on May
27, 1997 [Board Presentation 2g]. The SUA consists of a computer (diskette-based)
software program for the reporting of payroll taxes (all social security payments and
payments to INFONAVIT). All employers with more than four employees are required to
use it. As of February 1998 all required employers are using the SUA.
*  Outsourcing of payroll tax collection function by IMSS. An agreement was signed
between IMSS and 12 special authorized banks (Entidades receptoras) relating to the
collection of payroll taxes and their transfer to the Banco de Mexico. Banks are required to
send the funds to the Banco de Mexico within 2 working days and the information to
PROCESAR within 3 working days (which will decrease to 1 day beginning in July 1998)
3.17   In the next several months, the authorities will focus on the following areas as part of
the fine-tuning of the system:
¢ Cutting costs. Currently the total costs for the centralized system is approximately 3% of
the flow into AFOREs, and it is shared by:
* IMSS: for affiliation, collection, and control
* Authorized Receiving Banks: for receipt of contributions and transfer of information
to PROCESAR
* PROCESAR: for processing, reconciling, and disbursing: The maximum
administration charge is NP$10.80 per account per year Circular CONSAR No. 14-1,
dated June 27, 1997) [Board Presentation 2h] Additional fees are charged for
specific operations performed by PROCESAR (affiliation, switching, etc.).
* Cutting time. Currently it takes approximately 10 days between the employers' payment of
contributions (t) and the actual arrival of the workers' funds into the AFOREs (t+1 0) to be
invested. Since PROCESAR is jointly owned by the AFOREs and the AFOREs start
collecting fees only when the funds are deposited in its account, there is an incentive for
PROCESAR to increase the efficiency of the system (Table 2 below).



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGR&A (CSDP II)                         19
L  NW  9WINFOR" MAON.                                   ND
Payment by employer (I 7th of every odd month)
Bank send funds to Banco de Mexico (BM)
Authorized Bank sends SUA information to
PROCESAR
(In July 1998 must decrease to t+l)
PROCESAR sends information to AFORE
(max. allowed 10 working days)
PROCESAR sends information to BM
Funds deposited into AFORE of choice
Source: PROCESAR
Q  Assigning float to workers' accounts. Currently the float accumulated during the
individualization process (approximately 8 days) - while the contributions are held in the
Central Bank and earning 2% real interest rate - is being transferred to the Finance Ministry.
CONSAR has issued guidelines (Circular 22-2, April 29, 1998) for the transfer of the interest
earned on the contribution flow during this period into the workers' individual account in
his/her own AF'ORE.
(c) Identifying opportunities for cost-cutting and development of pension performance
benchmarks
3.18   In Mexico, the Government does not regulate the level or the form of commissions. On
average, commissions charged by
Mexican pension managers are
currently in line with, or slightly    PTbe3~7:
lower than, those computed for   *        o X                in 
defined  contribution  plans  inDeid Conntryutiof Co. a
other Latin American countries              Argentina     2.410 o
(Table 3). In the near future there         Chile         2.291
will be pressure to reduce these            Peru          2.294
commissions, in order to boost              Uruguay       2.070
investment returns on  pension              Mexico        1.919
contributions. Better returns are            .                                          l
imperative to reduce fiscal costs
for transition  workers and  to  Source: CONSAR (1997), p. 19-20.
improve retirement benefits for  Note: Mexican data affiliate-weighted as of I April 1997
new workers to a level above the  All computations assume commission is a 1-time frontloaded fee.
government minimum guarantee
3.19   The issue of cost cutting is particularly crucial in the case of Mexico, since the
contribution to the AFORE system is lower than in other DC schemes. Currently the average
worker's annual AFORES contribution (gross of fees) is estimated at about US$325/year (8.7%



20                                                                  PRESIDENT'SREPORT
of $312/mo2 - 6.5% plus 2.2% of the social quota). The average commission charged is
approximately 1.9% of flows, or approximately US$61 per account yearly. In even the rosiest
scenario - one consistent with rates at the lowest-cost institutional US mutual funds - a low-cost
AFORE might charge an administrative fee of $50 with investment costs close to zero. Even in
this best case, the low-wage Mexican worker would give up a substantial amount of his funds to
administrative costs each year, leaving him with only around $275 to invest in the pension per
year. Evidently such a low contribution level will not guarantee a very comfortable retirement,
even with reasonable real returns and a relatively long work period prior to retirement. The
minimum-wage earner would fare correspondingly worse.
3.20  Identifying opportunities for cost-cutting is merely a means to an end - namely, lower
administration costs increase the amount of funds that will eventually be available to pay benefits
to retirees (and their dependents). But because pension saving takes place over such a long time
period, it is useful to formulate a range of output standards when monitoring pension system
performance in the short and medium run. To this end, supervisory agencies charged with
oversight for pension plan behavior should delineate performance benchmarks regarding
investment returns as well as indicators of services delivered to system participants.
3.21   Since the Mexican pension funds now only offer a very standardized and limited
portfolio, and for the most part no differences in services, money management fees are the main
area where competition might occur. However, the commissions charged are difficult to
understand and compare. This is because the average plan participant faces a range of front-
loaded, asset-based, and return-based commissions that change in different ways through time
(Table 4). To make these comparable, one requires a model of contributions, returns, asset
accumulation, and holding periods.
3.22  CONSAR has finalized a study (October 1997) making these costs comparable [Board
Presentation 2i]. The study simulates eventual commissions paid and benefits received under
the different AFORES commission structures This requires assuming (i) a wage level and hence
a contribution level, (ii) a holding period, and (iii) a real rate of return and wage growth rate. In
the CONSAR figures, it is assumed that the hypothetical worker's pay is 3 times the minimum
wage (approximately the average pay of workers covered by the AFORES system), and real pay
growth is zero. Real annual investment returns in this simulation are alternatively set at either
3.5% or 5%, and the two holding periods considered are 25 and 40 years, respectively. These
computations also assume that the government's additional "social quota" is not included in the
contribution amount, and that the participant has a SAR accumulation of $4,000, immediately
transferred into the AFORES plan. Some illustrative comparisons of commissions charged under
the various AFORES are reported in Table 5 below.
2 Assuming lmw=30.2 pesos per day and assuming that the average worker earns 3mw. With a rate of 1US$=8.7
pesos, the monthly wage of the average worker is approximately US$312. The average bimonthly 8.7%
contribution into individual SIEFOREs is approximately US$54.



MExICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                                     21
1.40                  0.00                   20.00         E
nan8inex; |   1.70                     0.00                    0.00          A
Ban~oiier~~      1.70                  0.00                    0.00          A
Ban1r68                     ***0.00    4.75        **          0.00          B
ih1oW  O .90  * * *   1.50                    0.00         D
1.68                  0.00                    0.00         A
G~pitahza~   1.60                  0.00                    0.00         A
Confi&~~~    0.90                  1.00                    0.00          D
Garant t,    1.68                      0.00                    0.00          A
Notes:     ~     1.65                  0.00                    0.00          A
Initalrate is 0.2%ofpa0.00             0.00                    33.00         C
e*Charg on asststof1.55              0.00                    0.00          A
P*hr utoP iover timef1.70             0.50                    0.00          D
1.70                  1.00                    0.00         D
A:Onpay alone (7 of 1.17                1.00                   0.00          D
S~~~jXj  ~   1.50                  0.99                    0.00          D
0.95                  1.25        **0.00                    D
Source: CONSAR Tabulations, 8 July 1997
Notes:
*Initial rate is 0.2% of pay rising to 1.7% by March of 1998.
**Charge on assets to fall over time if participant remains in that AFORE.
** Charge to fall over time if participant remains in that AFORE.
Memorandum: Type of Commission
A: On pay alone (7of 17)                         Av %A:                     1.67
B: On assets alone (I of 17)                     Av % B:                    4.75
C: On real returns alone (I of 17)               Av % C:                     33
D: Mixture of A&B (7 of 17)                        Av. D (pay%;asset %):    1.27       1.03
E: Mixture of A&C (I of 17)                        Av. E (pay %,ROR %)      1.40      20.00
3.23   Since pension systems produce a number of services in addition to money management,
CONSAR is currently developing a set of indicators permitting the government - and more
importantly the plan participants - to judge a plan's performance over time on non-financial
criteria. Performance standards should include indicators of how quickly and satisfactorily the
system responds to participant queries, how quickly and accurately taxes are collected and
invested, how long it takes claimants to determine eligibility for benefits and start receiving
checks, and how the system detects and corrects fraud. Related issues include how well the
system can acquire SAR92 fumds accumulated under the prior retirement system's arrangement,
and whether people add their own voluntary contributions on top cf the mandated sums.



22                                                                               PRESIDENT'SREPORT
Table 5. AFORES Commissions Expressed as 1-Time Front-loaded Amount
(Charge as % of Pay)
25-year Holding Period                         40-year Holding Period
[a]         [b]                                  [c]            [d]
AFORE       r=3.5,T=25 *    r=5,T=25            AFORE          r-3.5,T=40    r=5,T=40
Atlantico          2.18         2.54            Atlantico            2.61           3.18
Banamex             1.51        1.52            Banamex              1.42           1.45
Bancomer            1.65         1.65           Bancomer              1.65          1.65
Bancrecer           1.83        1.97            Bancrecer            2.36          2.58
Banorte             1.97        2.04            Banorte              2.45           2.57
Bital               1.60        1.61            Bital                1.59           1.60
Capitaliza         2.58         2.74            Capitaliza           3.53           3.81
Confia              1.80        1.88            Confia               2.43           2.60
Garante             1.68        1.68            Garante               1.68          1.68
Genesis             1.65        1.65            Genesis               1.65          1.65
Inbursa            1.45         2.08            Inbursa              2.21           3.15
Previnter          2.54         2.60            Previnter            3.05           3.17
Profuturo GNP      2.27         2.30            Profuturo GNP        2.59           2.66
Santander          2.78         2.85            Santander            3.35           3.48
Tepeyac            2.32         2.40            Tepeyac              2.93           3.08
Siglo XXI          2.73         2.80            Siglo XXI            3.29           3.43
Zurich             2.40         2.49            Zurich               3.13           3.31
Average            2.06         2.16            Average              2.47           2.65
Minimum             1.45        1.52            Minimum              1.42           1.45
Maximum            2.78         2.85            Maximum              3.53           3.81
Standard Dev.       0.45        0.46            St. Dev.             0.69           0.77
Correlation(a,b)    0.94                        Corr(c,d)            0.95
Correlation(a.c)    0.93                        Corr(b,d)            0.94
Source: CONSAR (Oct. 1997), [a] p.7; [b] p.8, [c] p.9, [d] p.lO
* Note: "r" refers to the assumed rate of return used in each calculation
"T" refers to the time span over which calculation is taken, in years
A3. Transfer of SAR 92 balances
3.24     Transition workers have the right to transfer their accumulated contributions in the
retirement sub-account made between 1992 and August 1997 to AFORES. The AFOREs will
maintain these funds (SAR92) in a separate sub-account - invested in the same portfolio as the
SIEFORE. Workers have an acquired right to a 2 percent real rate of return on these funds for
the first year if they choose to maintain their balances in the Central Bank.
3.25     To ensure the smooth transfer of SAR92 accumulated balances from the Central Bank
to AFOREs, CONSAR (Circular 24-1, 12/10/97); SHCP (Oficio No.305, 12/10/97) and Banco
de Mexico have issued detailed processes establishing the means to authorize transfers and to
ensure that contributors are informed about the transfer [Board Presentation 3a]. TableA18 in
the Technical Annex describe in detail the SAR92 transfer scheme.



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMEVTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                      23
3.26   The total SAR  92
balance  with  the  Central
Bank as of January 31, 1998
was  P$34  billion  (about
US$4.0  billion)  in  the           65,000             .
retirement sub-account. As          6,0 
of April 8, 1998 total assets       50,000                                      *
transferred (P$ 10.8 billion)       4500 
represented  over 30%   of        o I   40,000 .  IMSS INFONAV[U
SAR92  total  accumulated          0 35,000D
assets [Board Presentation  i        30,000
expects to transfier similar        2,0
amounts every twvo months            50.
until the entire amount has          500
been transferred.                       0 4m
l        ~~~~1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997 Jan-98 Feb-98 
3.27   The   amounts  are                                   Year
being transferred as a deposit
at the Central Bank created
in the name of the AFOREs
where the workers have their           Rement
individual  accounts.  The                 lIO6.
AFOREs have one month to          of                             3699x3
drawdowrn the aiounts and  returns t   an
use them  for investing in    NONSA                               164a1
government debt instruments   The on8ho
-    CETES,    BONDES,                   FA1.
UDIBONOS  - which they                     l                       1.
purchase at weekly auctilonsUKA232
held by the Cenitral Barnk.              VNIL                      .
During the month they have                 IUK                    55
full freedom  to decide on            IPYC1.
which instrument they wouIld          xi6.
like to invest in. If they do         TOTAL1087
not use the balances by the
end of the month, the Central
Bank will allocate to the AFOREs any instrument that it wishes to sell. These instruments are
fully tradable and are no different from any other government treasury instruments in the market.
A4. In vestment Policies and Risk Management
3.28   The long-term sustainability of the pension reform undertaken in Mexico is critically
dependent on the investment returns that are obtained by the AFOREs and the financial
performance of INFONAVIT. CONSAR is responsible for the regulations governing the
investments by the AFOREs. The only constraint on CONSAR is that it can authorize



24                                                                                    PRESIDENT' sREPORT
investments only in domestic assets (the law does not allow international investments). The
investment regime governing the new pension system was issued by CONSAR in June 1997
(Circular 15-1, 6/30/97). Currently each AFORE is authorized to offer only one SIEFORE to all
its affiliates and the regulations governing the first SIEFORE are summarized in Table 7 below.
Table 7. Investment Guidelines for the first SIEFORE
[UPPER LIMITS BY TYPE:-,.                                                            Initial SIEFORES-
[LIMITSPERINSTRUMENT6(as a percentage of Fund assets)                                   (as % of fund)
Government debt                                                                             100
Equity securities                                                                            0
Eligible bank debt (issued or guaranteed by a commercial bank) (1) (2)                       10
Total eligible private debt (corporate and commercial bank) and development bank            35
obligations                                                                         _
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer as a percentage of       10
SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer, as a percentage of the  10
issuer's securities
Investment in any single issue as a percentage of such issue                                 10
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by issuers belonging to the same financial,  15
commercial or industrial group, as a percentage of SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by affiliates of the SIEFORE as a             5
percentage of SIEFORE assets
(I) Short-term obligations (less than one year maturity) must be rated in the top three rating categories by an authorized rating
agency; long-term obligations must be rated in the top two categories. CONSAR's Risk Analysis Committee will establish
criteria for when a rating from a single agency is inadequate and when commercial banks would be required to secure a rating
from an additional agency.
(2) The securities of banks that have undergone intervention by the authorities are ineligible for investment by SIEFORES.
3.29 The actual investments of the AFOREs as of March 13, 1998 are provided in Figures 6(a)
and 6(b). The AFOREs are largely investing in government bonds (CETES, BONDES, and
UDIBONOS) and the limit on private bonds (issued both by banks and corporates) is currently
not binding. Due to requirement that inflation-indexed bonds form a large part of the portfolio,
the AFOREs are investing proportionately more than the share of instruments available in the
market in UDIBONOS. Less than 0.25% of the aggregate investments are in bank securities and
less than 1% of the aggregate investments are in other private debt instruments. The average
annual rate of return obtained by the AFOREs as of February 28, 1998 was 21.5%, implying a
real annualized rate of return of 6.2%.



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                      25
3.30   The  experience  of                                                               4
Mexico in actually operating         
under the investment regime                                                               A
outlined  above highlighted
certain    problems    and   X                        UDIBONOS
constraints. As these have                   3%         8
been identified, CONSAR
has displayed  considerable 
ability and agility to respond   i
to the needs of the evolving 
market. The main issues that   t     BONrE9
have arisen subsequent to              32
implementation of the new
system   and   CONSAR's                        EE91 AJUBONOS  UDIBONOS
attempts to fine tune the                     C
system  by addressing some
of these issues through new           
regulations  are  discussed                                         , i
below. CONSAR has taken 
into account the viewpoints                                 Private
of  the   various   market                           DEPBMX  1%     Bank Issues
participants in  formulating           UDIBONOS       0% |%
these regulations. Annex IV     18%                                              CETES
deals  in  detail with  the A
development and issues in 
the investment regime for the         1%
assets under the management   o
of AFOREs.                                                 I   o      "k        BNE
BONDE9I
3.31   CONSAR          has                  41b
addressed in a timely fashion the iErES t              BONDES    BONDE91  t AJUBONOS
*sInverastmects of thelafione-ind d bonds. A waUDIBONOS  gr DEPBX   n Private   a Bank Issues
tuning  of the  investment                                           b
regime of the new system. Its                         A
activities have focussed on three issues: (i) the evolution of the investment regime; (ii) the
financial and market risks of the system and their management; and (iii) systemic problems that
could impact sound management of assets.
3.32 Regulations governing the investment regime. CONSAR has issued a number of
modifications and changes to the initial guidelines to address some of problems that arose once
the system became operational (Circular 15-2 dated 29 October 1997). [Board Presentation
4a]. The most important modifications made are discussed below.
*In vestments in Inflation-indexed bonds. A waiver was granted until the end of 1997 on the
earlier requirem-ent that at least 51% of the SIEFORE investments be made in inflation
indexed securities (the requirement that at least 65% of all investments be in governments
bonds continues). The reason for the waiver is that there were not enough inflation-indexed



26                                                                 PRESIDENT's REPORT
instruments for the SIEFOREs to invest in. It is expected that the Government's own
borrowing program from the market will provide these instruments over time.
*  Cash holdings. Earlier the SIEFOREs were not allowed to hold any cash balances. This
blanket ban on cash holdings created many operational problems for the SIEFOREs,
especially when there were any errors and omissions during the cash transfer process. In
order to simplify the process, the SIEFOREs are now allowed to hold up to NP $250,000 in
cash balances.
*  Repurchase Agreements. The requirement that SIEFOREs hold no cash also implied that all
the money received through contributions had to be invested immediately. This requirement
significantly constrained the investment plans of the AFOREs. In order to allow SIEFOREs
to better manage their cash positions and time their investments, CONSAR has issued
regulations allowing the SIEFOREs to invest in repurchase agreements or repos. The
amounts invested by a SIEFORE in repos is restricted to the lower of: (i) the amount
received in the most recent bimonthly contributions; and (ii) 10% of the overall assets under
management. For the next several months, the second constraint will be binding.
*  Asset Valuation. CONSAR earlier issued guidelines that the valuation of the asset holdings
of the SIEFOREs should be done on a daily basis using a vector of prices published by the
Bolsa de Valores - the Mexican Stock Exchange. It was soon discovered that the prices
received by the SIEFOREs and CONSAR were sometimes erroneous (and amended later by
the Bolsa on the following day) or sometimes were not available. In this situation, fresh
regulations were issued to clarify that the SIEFOREs were authorized to use the most recent
and accurate price vector available to report valuations.
* Others. CONSAR has clarified the earlier investment regulations so that the limits on
various investments should be adhered to at the time of investment. Changes in valuations
due to market movements do not constitute regulatory violations. This clarification is line
with international industry practice.
3.33  Risk management. In addition to providing the framework for the overall investment
regime, CONSAR also has responsibility to ensure compliance of the investment guidelines by
the AFOREs. CONSAR also needs to ensure the sustainability of the new system by getting a
measure of, and then requiring the AFOREs to manage the risks to which the investors' funds are
exposed. At present, there is a significant overlap between the compliance and risk management
functions of CONSAR. As a regulator, it is essential that CONSAR perform the compliance
function and provide regulatory procedures to resolve violations with guidelines. As regards risk
management, different participants in the system have responsibilities to manage different risks.
CONSAR should ideally focus on system-wide risks and the AFOREs should be held
accountable for portfolio and security level risks.
3.34 . CONSAR constituted two committees - the Comite de Analisis de Riesgos (the Risk
Analysis Committee) and the Comite de Valuaci6n (The Valuation Committee) to oversee its
operations in the risk management area [Board Presentation 4b]. Also, to achieve its
compliance function, CONSAR has put in place an extensive reporting system, which obtains
data from all AFOREs. The systems currently in place provide information to CONSAR about
the specific investments being made by the AFOREs. CONSAR is also developing systems that
would allow it to assess system-wide risks and allow it to identify potential trouble spots.



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP ll)                27
3.35 In the area of risk management, issues remaining to be addressed include: (i) separating
CONSAR's compliance function from the risk management function, while focusing CONSAR's
activities on regulation and supervision; (ii) institutionalizing procedures to address systemic
risks - especially procedures to resolve AFORE mergers and bankruptcies; (iii) strengthening the
capacity of AFOREs to take on the risk management function internally; (iv) establishing
uniform standards of risk reporting by AFOREs; and (v) strengthening CONSAR's internal
capacity to oversee risk management function and provide institutional strengthening to
AFOREs, if necessary.
3.36  Broader financial sector issues. CONSAR also has a major role to play in addressing
some of the more miedium-long term issues in financial sector development in Mexico to resolve
some systemic problems with the objective of making the investment process more efficient and
effective. These aspects - which CONSAR is currently working on - include: (i) reducing the
time taken between the payment of contributions by workers and receipt by AFOREs; (ii)
improving the overall environment for investment by AFOREs; (iii) establishing a market
determined benchmark for performance evaluation and risk assessment of AFORE performance;
(iv) instituting a custodial system for AFORE and mutual fund assets; and (v) assisting in the
development of the corporate bond market and strengthening credit rating agencies.
A5. Supervision and Eforcement
3.37  Most outside observers, and many of the fund managers themselves, have judged
CONSAR's regulatory performance to be highly professional and effective. Within CONSAR,
the Direcci6n General de Inspecci6n y Vigilancia, a department that in 1997 accounted for
roughly 15.7% of the regulator's budget, is charged with the operational and financial
supervision of the new private pension system (See Table A14 in the Technical Annex for the
Organizational Structure of CONSAR). The department operates with a total staff of 55 and
carries out its supervisory function through remote, automated data analysis, validated by random
on-site inspections of the AFOREs. CONSAR has developed customized systems software that
feeds data on affiliation, the status of retirement accounts, SIEFORE investment activity, and the
eligibility of acquired instruments to the department's analysts on a daily basis. Financial data
on SIEFORE investment regulated by Circular 21-1, published November 11, 1997 [Board
Presentation 5a], establishes the methodology for the valuation of eligible investment
instruments.
3.38  The majority of supervisory functions are computerized, and operate in conjunction with
IMSS operating system. Since October 1996, with the formulation of a joint IMSS-CONSAR
working plan for the implementation and operation of the reformed system of social security,3 a
close working relationship has been maintained between the two agencies. Circular 16-1 and
20-1 published on June 30 and November 11, 1997 (see para 3.16) respectively, fornally link the
regulator's task of supervision of the AFORE system with the centralized collection
infrastructure established under IMSS and managed by PROCESAR. CONSAR's supervision
procedures are the only mechanism of daily financial surveillance that exists in the country, and
are supported by programs that perform crossehecks on data received electronically from the
AFOREs, PROCESAR and IMSS. CONSAR Circular 19-1 (11/17/97), specifies the data
3 Plan de Trabajo CONSAR-IMSS para la Implementaci6n Operativa de la Reforma a la Ley del Seguro Social



28                                                                    PRESIDENT' sREPORT
required by the supervision department from each of the actors in the pension system, a uniform
format and a strictly enforced schedule for their delivery. In addition, Circular 25-1 (12/11/97),
sets out the data and format specifications of the monthly reports required of each AFORE (see
para. 3.4).
3.39  Over the course of 1997, the department developed instruction and carried out training
programs for its staff in both off-site monitoring and on-site inspection. The bulk of these efforts
at building the supervisory capacity of the staff have been financed with World Bank technical
assistance. When staff monitoring operational and financial data detect AFORE activity outside
the regulatory framework, the offending fund manager is notified immediately, and if the
infraction cannot be satisfactorily explained or resolved remotely, an inspection team equipped
with portable computers linked to CONSAR's mainframe is dispatched to deal with the problem
on site. To date all the infractions that are detected have been dealt with in 24 hours.4 Staff has
noticed that imposing swift penalties on even minor infractions has rapidly established standards
for the industry. If one AFORE is disciplined, the others quickly correct their own activity in the
area of infraction. CONSAR's expanded technical capacity has accelerated response time,
reduced the amount of human resources necessary for supervision, and contributed to the
viability of the system.
3.40  CONSAR is required to report once every six months on the operation of the new system
to Congress. The first such report was prepared in February 1998 covering the July-December
1997 period. CONSAR will also provide statistical information on the new pension system in its
bimonthly bulletins. The bulletins will have a wide distribution and can be accessed from
CONSAR's web page. CONSAR emphasizes that the statistical bulletin will follow the system's
development by providing data on each contribution cycle, and that it is intended purely for
disclosure. CONSAR will refrain from any formal economic or financial analysis in this forum
that could be perceived or implied as an endorsement by participants in the market. The first
bulletin will be issued by June 1998.
3.41   Regarding challenges ahead, of the supervision department's fifty-five staff, only
seventeen are available to monitor the activity of all of the new market's participants. When
compared with the human resources dedicated to supervision in other Latin American countries
that have established similar systems of private pension fund management, this is relatively
meager. Also, the number of workers participating in the system is equal to that in Chile and in
Argentina combined, adding to resource demands. The department's task will be further
complicated by the eventual introduction of additional SIEFOREs per fund manager, and the
corresponding evolution of the investment regime. The supervision department will soon need to
upgrade its software to automatically perform notification and follow-up tasks that currently can
occupy up to two or three days of a supervisor's limited time. CONSAR has identified the
increasingly binding constraints on its supervision staff, and plans to considerably expand the
department's capacity to monitor complex financial transactions in order to ensure that as the
investment activity of the fund managers becomes more sophisticated, that the regulator is able
to keep pace.
4 The majority of infractions have been related to tardy or erroneous delivery of the daily, weekly, and monthly data
required by the regulator.



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRA,CTUAL SA viNGsDEvELopmENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                  29
A 6. Disability and Life
3.42  Under the reformed system, the risk of disability and death is covered by two types of
insurance: workers' compensation (Riesgo de Trabajo - RT) and the life and disability insurance
(Invalidez y Vida - IV).  When a covered accident occurs at the workplace, workers'
compensation applies. When the disability or death are not work-related, the life and disability
(IV) insurance applies. The IV system requires a fixed premium to IMSS of 2.5% of private
sector workers' payroll. IMSS retains responsibility over the certification of this line of
insurance. Private insurance companies pay benefits through annuities to all cases beginning on
July 1, 1997.
3.43   Coverage for IV benefits is conditional on 250 weeks of contributions to the national
social security system, and there is no minimum age for eligibility. However if the disability is a
" major" one (with 75% loss of function) only 150 weeks of contributions are required. Benefits
under the disability pension are equal to 35% of the average covered wage the worker earned
over the 500 weeks of contributions prior to the disability, adjusted by the CPI. However the
benefit must at least be sufficient to equal the government-guaranteed MPG. Survivor insurance
benefits are equal to, 90% of the disability pension for a widow, and dependents receive 20% of
the disability pension (30% if both parents are deceased).
3.44 The worker seeking disability benefits must go through IMSS certification. In both cases,
workers' compensation and disability and life, once the certification is provided, IMSS has the
responsibility of comnputing the present value of the annuity flow payable to the disabled worker.
IMSS must pay the worker or his beneficiaries a sum insured (suma asegurada) equal to the
difference between the cost of an annuity (monto constitutivo), based on the benefits mentioned
above, and the accumulated balance in the individual AFORE account. With the sum of the
accumulated balances and the sum insured paid by the IMSS, the worker or his beneficiaries
must purchase the corresponding annuity from a private insurance company chosen by the
worker. If the accumulated balance is higher than the cost of the annuity, the worker or his
beneficiaries can withdraw the excess funds or increase the benefits of the annuity. In any case,
if the benefits are lower than the minimum pension the government will put up the difference so
that the worker can purchase an annuity with an income flow equal to the minimum pension.
These pensions are adjusted annually according to changes in the CPI.
3.45  The Government is currently focusing its reform efforts in three areas: (i) containment of
the costs of the IV scheme; (ii) design of the technical and operational mechanisms and the
regulatory framework for the smooth initiation of payment of annuities by the private sector; and
(iii) analytical work toward the fine-tuning of the system.
3.46 Cost containment. On June 18, 1997 IMSS and SHCP signed an agreement (Convenio de
Entendimiento) by which SHCP commits to pay for the disability pensions for current pensioners
while IMSS commits to a maximum increase in levels of disability cases ("siniestralidad') not
higher than 2.5% relative to 1996 levels. Also, SHCP commits to a medium-term financing plan to
make up for the difference between accumulated balances in the individual AFORE accounts and
the required amnount to purchase the annuity for the period in which AFORE balances will not be
sufficient. As part of this agreement, an SHCP-IMSS Committee was established to follow up on



30                                                                         PRESIDENT's REPORT
the levels of disability pensions and any modifications in the expected flow of funds necessary to
finance disability and survivors pensions.
3.47 Regulation and Supervision by the Insurance Superintendency (Comisi6n Nacional
de Seguros y Fianzas - CNSF). On January 3, 1997 the Insurance Law (Ley General de
Instituciones y Sociedades Mutualistas de Seguros) was modified to incorporate the changes to
the provision of IV benefits under the reformed Social Security Law and to make operational the
provision of such benefits by authorized private insurance companies [Board Presentation 6a].
In addition, the CNSF issued a number of regulations to make operational the new scheme
[Board Presentation 6b], including: (i) operational rules (Circular S-22.1, 2/13/97); (ii)
contractual documentation (Circular S-22.4, 3/31/97); (iii) format to be used by the insurance
companies in making their offer to the worker (Circular S-22.10, 6/13/97); (iv) rules on
additional benefits which private insurance companies can provide to the worker (Circular S-
22.3.2, 11/13/97); and (v) marketing rules (Circular S-22.1.3, 1/8/98). In addition, on March 5,
1998 a Department in charge of supervision of pension-related insurance (Direcci6n General de
Supervisi6n del Seguro de Pensiones) was established within CNSF [Board Presentation 6c].
Table 8. Disability and Life: Provision of Annuities by Private Insurers
(July 1-December 31, 1997)
-nsurance Company    Number of      Total      .-Monthly       Average      Market -
,Ase-    ,'s , munsl     Pens-ions,     Mo thly'   I.hare
_____._;____e__________            (NP$million)  (NP$thousands)       n
AIG                       199             64.5      222,071.35       1,115.94    4.51
ALLIANZ                    91             37.7       141,870.12      1,559.01    2.06
HIDALGO                    52             13.7       48,181.78        926.57     1.18
PORVENIR GNP              846            250.2      873,796.46       1,032.86   19.18
BANCOMER                  1588           448.1     1,598,466.60      1,006.59    36.01
BANORTE                    3              0.66        2,846.78        948.59     0.07
BITAL                      96             21.8       77,560.84        807.93     2.18
COMERCIAL AMERICA         251             85.1      292,024.58       1,163.44    5.69
INBURSA                   580            201.3      681,012.66       1,174.16   13.15
BANAMEX AEGON              59             20.9       75,131.63       1,273.42    1.34
BBV-PROBURSA               90             29.7       110,328.25      1,225.87    2.04
GENESIS                   540            182.1      643,161.69       1,191.04   12.24
SERFIN                     15              3.5       13,449.08        896.61     0.34
TOTAL                     4,410   [     1,358.1    4,779.900.82 L   1,083.88 l  100.00
Source: CNSF 1998
(a) Montos constitutivos in million of Mexican pesos
3.48   The reformed system began operating on July 1, 1997. As of March 1998, 13 insurance
companies have been authorized to provide annuities to pensioners (Table 8). Claims and
settlements as of December 31, 1997 are summarized in Figures 7a and 7b.
3.49 Analytical work toward the fine-tuning of the system. During February 13-14, 1997,
the Finance Ministry - with World Bank grant financing - organized a Conference on annuities
("Rentas Vitalicias dentro del Nuevo Sistema Mexicano de Pensiones ") to review international
experiences and advance in the fine-tuning of the Mexican scheme. Also, since the available
evidence to date on the financial sustainability and long-term viability of the IV scheme is



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                                31
incomplete,  the  Gov-
ernment has initiated a
study of the disability
and survivors instrance                                                           r
scheme. The study will          ~       60               ______________
focus on the following                  6000.                   5,788        C aaire  Seftlernents
questions:55W
I Does  the  Mexican                    4500                        424
public  IV  programn
need to cost as much           Trasiio
as it does?                         25O
3  Are  benefits  ade- ornesx
quate   under   the                 1,000i
Mexican  public  IV                        199  a                               165
program, and is the                         Total (72.7%) vDisability and Uife (73.3%)  Wrak-related Risk
eligibility   process,         of t
constructed so as to
discourage fraud and
moral hazard?
*  How    could   the
Mexican  public  IV200 
system  be better in-     1.        0      ,881,769                     a ama 0 Setliennts
tegrated  with  other             160
public  programns  -              140           ,5              ,0
the retirement sys-
tem, workers' com-              (
pensation,  extreme                800.        231
old age, and sever-
ance?40 
*  How    could   the                  200 
Mexican  public  IV                 0 aEA=
system be better in-             ~~~~~ ~ ~~~Total  DisabilIty and Lif e  Work-related Rsk
tegrated with pri-
vately     purcihased
disability insurance?
A 7. Update of Fiscal Costs of the Transition
3.50   The full benlefits of a pension reform  are not felt unless the fiscal costs of the existing
unfunded system are made explicit to the extent possible and are funded through a credible
financing plan. As part of the design of the reform, the Ministry of Finance (SHCP - Secretaria de
Hacienda y Cr&dito Ptblico) developed in 1996 a model to 'estimate the fiscal costs of the
transition, including- sensitivity analyses under various assumptions. A detailed analy sis of these
costs, including an explanation of the model as well as sensitivity analyses under various
assumptions, is presented in Annex V of the MOP of CSDP I. SHCP has revisited these early



32                                                                               PRESIDENT'S REPORT
estimates in 1997 in light of updated macroeconomic and demographic projections, initial
implementation experience, the actual commission structure, and initial SIEFORE returns.
3.51   The reform  of  :
the  old  age  security                          Fgr 9a" Totali Fical  ot
system  generates three
fiscal consequences:                1.20%
the cost of provid-
ing   pensions  to              1.00r
existing pensioners
(without  the  in- .        f    %
come provided by                0.60%
the PAYG  defined                       -_____/_-__
benefit    system,              040%
since all the contri-
butions go to the               0.20%                .______
individual accounts       LiCl996 Model   1007 Model
in the AFOREs be-               0.00%    .   _rr_                                _
ginning in Septem-
ber 1997);                  __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _                                 _ _
*  the  costs of pro-          .                       = 
viding      pension             ~~m     taher
guarantees,      in-
cluding~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 0   . .. .ur .    ...20 -.- ....-.- ---------- ------------------- -------- --- ..................... ................ .... . ...  N... ...
cluding  the  guar-             12%...
antee  of  pension
benefits under the              .00%
old PAYG  system    X:
to transition work-             0.80%
ers resulting  from
the lifetime switch     --  0.60%
option   at  retire- tW W  , 
ment, and the MPG               0.40%
to new workers;
0.20%
*  The  costs  of the   .^ o.. .1996 Model   _1997 Model
new   daily  Social            0.00%
Quota to individual  mm             s  NO s 8   - - - - - - 0NNm gCe0C2 
accounts  indexed
to the CPI and the    f ,                                                                     X
Governuent  con- 
tribution of 0.425 percent of salary towards workers' pension.
3.52   The Government has completed the 1997 update to the sensitivity analysis of the fiscal
costs of transition and the evaluation of actuarial methodologies and the database [Board
Presentation 7]. Also, pension related transition costs for 1998 have been included in the 1998
budget. Figures 8a and 8b show that the 1997 revised estimates of transition costs are slightly



MEXICO - SECOND CONT4RACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                 33
lower than the 1996 projections. This results from: (i) higher GDP growth rates; (ii) changes in
biometric hypotheses, particularly disability and mortality rates; (iii) lower than projected
increases in the minimum wage - which has led to lower payments to current pensioners; and
(iv) lower actual cojmmission levels (on average, 1.5% compared to 2% for a 50 year horizon).
B.    INFONAVIT
3.53  Background. As the largest of Mexico's special housing funds, INFONAVIT is an
important source of mortgage loans and potentially mortgage funds in Mexico's housing finance
system. Along with its critical role in housing finance, the reforms undertaken in 1996 by the
Government to the social security system have given a key role to INFONAVIT for ensuring
adequate pension income through positive real returns for contributors.
3.54 Under the reforms, the 5 percent contribution of a worker's wage to INFONAVIT
represents between 30 and 40 percent of total contributions to pension accounts. Hence it is
important that these funds earn positive real rates of return. Other benefits from positive real
returns include: (i) potentially lower fiscal costs as the better performance of INFONAVIT
increases total returns on individual accounts and lowers the probability that younger transition
workers will choose the old PAYG benefits over the new system, or that the Government will
have to provide the minimum pension guarantee to new workers; and (ii) the higher potential
retirement income by workers just entering the new system which could reduce evasion or
provide incentives for workers to join the fornal labor force.
3.55  As can be seen from Table 9, INFONAVIT accounts for more than 38% of the supply of
mortgages in Mexico. In 1997, INFONAVIT granted nearly 100,000 mortgage loans with a
value of P$11.5 billion. INFONAVIT's total loan portfolio at the end of 1997 amounted to over
US$10 billion. Using the new collection system of the pension reform, workers' contributions
and loan repayments for 1998 are estimated to reach P$22 billion (US$2.6 billion).
Estimated Demand                  1,000,000
Total Originated              266,637 w   %  of total
FOVI                           24,097       9.1%
FOVISSSTE                      23,855       9.0%
FONHAPO                         6,756       2.5%
OTHER"                        109,975 _    41.2%
Does not include loans for improvements.
**Includes Banks, FIVIDESU, PEMEX, BA~NOBRAS, C.F.E.,
FOVIMI-ISSFAM, FICAPRO, Institutos Estatales y Municipales de
Vivienda and the Autoconstrucci6n Program.
=Source: SEDESOL and World Bank Estimates
3.56 CSDP I. Se'veral measures were introduced to improve INFONAVIT's financial
perforrnance. They include:
A strengthenedl supervisory role for the National Banking and Securities Commission
(CNBV). CNBVI has initiated a regular supervisory process using procedures applicable to



34                                                                   PRESIDENT'SREPORT
similar financial institutions. It is recognized that CNBV's role remains constrained since
according to the INFONAVIT law, CNBV's functions are limited to the approval of
INFONAVIT's accounting system and its internal audit function. It is empowered only to
report irregularities to the SHCP.
*  A stock taking of INFONAVIT's portfolio by external international auditors. As a first
step, CNBV commissioned an external audit and portfolio review of INFONAVIT (KPMG
was the selected auditor). The audit was completed in March 1998.
*  Greater public disclosure. The Government will disclose to the general public as well as
contributors in their individual account statements the rate of return on pension accounts,
including the AFORES and INFONAVIT. Greater disclosure has already raised public
awareness about the quality of INFONAVIT's portfolio and its impact on workers' savings.
*  Changes in the INFONAVIT law (Article 43 bis).  The revised 1997 law allows
INFONAVIT to undertake "virtual" cofinancing arrangements for mortgages through
commercial banks and other financial institutions.  This will subject a portion of
INFONAVIT mortgages to commercial pricing and standards to loan underwriting.
Since September 1997, the Bank has been working with the authorities in carrying out technical
analysis focused on the performance of INFONAVIT's mortgage instrument and the quality of
its loan portfolio.
3.57  Key issues. The 1995-96 reforms did not constitute a fundamental change in the way
INFONAVIT operates. In many ways, INFONAVIT's role and operations work against the
creation of a modern housing finance system and social housing policy. Key issues include:
*  Profitability of mortgage portfolio. Real rates of return have been negative in past years,
including 1997. The overall portfolio is weak, characterized by an excessive number of non-
performing loans estimated at between 46 and 62%.5 The poor quality of its asset base
requires provisions in excess of INFONAVIT's equity.
*  Portfolio management. Collection efforts by INFONAVIT of its overdue loans have been
minimal as it relies on large annual flows from workers' contributions to remain liquid.
Existing information systems are inadequate and cannot easily identify workers' loan
accounts or track payments into individual accounts that are identified. The systems also
cannot differentiate among workers that are not paying and are in arrears from those that are
evading or those that qualify for grace payment options while out of the formal sector. More
importantly, INFONAVIT's accounting and financial management systems do not
distinguish between loan principal and interest payments.
.  Nature of mortgage instrument. Loans from INFONAVIT have outstanding principal
indexed to changes in the minimum wage. Borrower loan payments are adjusted to a
maximum of 30 percent of a workers wage at interest rates which range from 4 to 8 percent
based on the worker's wage. The protection provided under INFONAVIT's mortgage
instrument goes to both relatively lower and higher income wage earners. Given its current
structure the instrument is not commercially viable nor securitizable as the minimum wage is
policy instrument not subject to market forces.
Because of the nature of the mortgage instrument the classification of performing and non-performing loans do not
have the same implications as in a commercial financial institution.



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VJNGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                35
*  Lending practices. Modeling INFONAVIT's mortgages shows that many of its loans are
too large for the purchasing power of its lower income borrowers or to older, higher income
borrowers. Credit criteria do not give enough weight to borrower payment ability.
*  Distortions to, housing finance and social interest housing policy. Excessive lending
amounts have resulted in directing lower income workers as well as developers away from
more affordable housing options. Such practices have contributed to market segmentation
and act as a disincentive to market-based housing finance solutions. The implicit subsides
provided have been ineffectively targeted.
3.58 Recent developments. The extent of INFONAVIT's problems as revealed by the
external audit, CNBV's supervisory efforts and the new disclosure policies has prompted the
Government to confront a long overdue restructuring of INFONAVIT's operations and finances.
Immediate concrete steps have been hampered by the lack of reliable loan account and income
recognition systerns. One of the first actions to be taken is for INFONAVIT to set aside
significant provisions amounting to more than P$30 billion. The size of the required adjustment
exceeded INFONAVIT's reserves and equity. After careful analysis of alternative actions,
CNBV was prepared to grant some supervisory forbearance provided INFONAVIT embarked on
a comprehensive reform and financial restructuring program over the next five years to return it
to financial soundness. These discussions with the Government and INFONAVIT culminated in
the recent signing of an intergovernmental agreement (the Convenio) dated March 27, 1998
signed by Secretary of Finance, the President of CNBV and the Director General of
INFONAVIT [Board Presentation 8a]. INFONAVIT's Board of directors approved the
Convenio on March 30, 1997. The Convenio was subsequently ratified by the Assembly of
INFONAVIT's shareholders on April 29, 1998.
3.59  Proposed Restructuring Program. The Convenio base represents a minimum set of
reforms that INFONAVIT must undertake immediately. The restructuring program covers the
following key areas:
Accounting reforms and prudential requirements. INFONAVIT has accepted new
accounting standards to be issued by CNBV which are consistent with the rules applicable to
commercial banks for mortgage loans (Circular 1343 and Article 1 of the Convenio) [Board
Presentation 8b]. CNBV has also required that INFONAVIT stop accruing and create
required provisions against interest and indexation on non-performing loans6[Board
Presentation 8c]. CNBV has adopted a new interpretation of INFONAVIT's law regarding
non interest expenses. With this new interpretation, current operating expenses will need to
be reduced significantly since they exceed the level permitted by law.
* Provisioning. CNBV has taken a conservative approach to provisioning. Under the
Convenio, INFONAVIT will provision P$30.4 billion, coming from: (i) existing provisions
(P$13.2 billion); (ii) equity (P$8.5 billion); and (iii) deferred provisions (P$8.7 billion)
[Board Presentation 8d]. CNBV permitted INFONAVIT to create a deferred asset to be
amortized over the next five years. If loan recovery improves, INFONAVIT will have to
demonstrate to CNBV's satisfaction that its financial performance justifies the reversal of
excess provisions. During the remainder of 1998 INFONAVIT will maintain parallel
accounting systems under its old and the new accounting standards. Beginning in January
6 Past due loans exceeding more than six months.



36                                                                PRESIDENT'S REPORT
1999 INFONAVIT will have to present its financial statements in full compliance with the
new accounting standards to be issued by CNBV.
*  Portfolio and individual account management. By January 1999 INFONAVIT will have
in operation a new portfolio management system designed to track individually service
performance of each loan, distinguishing between interest and loan repayments. It is
expected to trigger collection action and determine the quality of INFONAVIT's loans. The
new system will strengthen INFONAVIT loan origination activities and its financial
programming area by providing timely feedback on actual loan performance by type of
borrower. In addition, the new system will allow improved management of individual
accounts.
*  Changes in staffing. CNBV will maintain a permanent evaluation program to ensure
adequate staff and manager financial skills and compliance with agreed policies. CNBV can
recommend personnel changes should they be necessary.
*  Reengineering INFONAVIT operational processes. Based on the diagnostic work that
will be performed by external consultants and CNBV during 1998, INFONAVIT will start a
reengineering of its different operational functions, such as internal controls, loan approvals
authorizations, compliance with loan criteria and informational requirements, and loan
recovery actions. If needed, organization/structural changes would be started in 1999.
*  Loan recovery program. In lieu of opting for a good bank/bad bank approach INFONAVIT
will undertake a special loan recovery program with specific targets and timetable to be
strengthened, if needed, by outsourcing loan collection actions. The program will also track
delinquent borrowers who have exited the formal labor market.
*  Revamping of credit policies. Lending to high-risk groups which might entail losses to
INFONAVIT will be adequately provisioned against or discontinued by September 1998 at
the recommendation of CNBV. New credit guidelines will be developed and implemented
incorporating creditworthiness criteria, including adjusting the maximum amounts of credits
to reflect the borrowers ability to pay. The technical and financial standards used for
computing these amounts will be approved by CNBV. The new lending criteria, which will
give sufficient weight to favor borrowers with the capacity to make down payments, will be
presented to INFONAVIT's Board by no later than September 1998.
*  Reduction of operating expenses. INFONAVIT has committed to present a plan to reduce
its operating expenses gradually, starting this year, to comply with the law over a period not
to exceed seven years. The reduction in 1998 is agreed at about US$10 million.
*  Launching of pilot cofinancing program with commercial financial institutions. The
Convenio requires the management of INFONAVIT to propose the rules for this program to
its Board by July 1998. The rules proposed will have to be pre-agreed with these institutions
prior to their presentation.
*  Reform of treasury operations. INFONAVIT will establish an investment committee with
representation from professional financial experts from SHCP and SECODAM. New
policies and controls for managing INFONAVIT's liquid funds will be established. The
staffing and new procedures for this will be presented to INFONAVIT's Board, after prior
consultation with CNBV, by July 1998.
*  Revamping of Information Technology (IT) and Management Information Systems
(MIS). INFONAVIT will revamp its IT and MIS, focusing on the flow of information from
loan origination through loan recovery. The new systems will ensure linkages between



MEXCO - SECOND CON)TRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)              37
various databases and a validation of historical data.  A full diagnostic study of
INFONAVIT's IT and MIS needs will be carried out along with definition of a time bound
implementation plan by December 1998.
3.60  Complementary Actions to the Convenio. Complementary actions will be implemented
in conjunction with the Convenio, including:
Strengthening governance. No changes to INFONAVIT's formal governance structure,
requiring legal modifications, are under consideration. The Government has taken or will
take a number of actions to address governance concerns. Among them are:
.  the approval of the Convenio by INFONAVIT's Board of Directors delegates
important decisions to CNBV, especially on the accounting, financial and personnel
fronts;
* CNBV's autonomy will be enhanced once new legislation is approved to transfer
control of its Board of Governors to the independent Central Bank;
*  SHCP is setting up a coordinating/steering committee for Government Board
members of INFONAVIT (SHCP, STPS and SECOFI) to ensure a coherent strategy
among such representatives at both Board and specialized committee meetings in
support of the reforms. The Government is also upgrading its representation at Board
meetings from the Director General to the Undersecretary level. A Monitoring
Committee made up of representatives from SHCP (Chief Advisor), CNBV (Vice
President) and INFONAVIT (Director General) will be established to review progress
weekly on implementing the Convenio;
* The Government intends to propose a policy of rotation of external auditors; and
* SHCP will prepare and implement a technical assistance program to carry out the
reforms and build institutional capacity.
-  Improving management capacity. Key appointments are to be reviewed by the Monitoring
Committee with the aim of selecting experienced and well qualified financial professionals
and managers. It is anticipated that in the course of the next few months the Government will
conduct an overall review, and further structural and organizational changes will be adopted.
*  Ensuring adequate returns to pensioners. INFONAVIT's law only requires INFONAVIT
to achieve a rate of return no less than annual changes in the minimum wage of Mexico City.
Since historically the minimum wage has lagged behind inflation, there is the possibility that
even financial performance complying with the law will yield a negative real return to
pensioners. Aware of his, the Government has agreed to use a benchmark indicator to
monitor this situation.
* Eliminating segmentation in housing finance. The Government's policy is to facilitate
INFONAVIT's current clientele that is bankable to obtain financing through the 43 bis
mechanism. This includes higher wage earners and borrowers eligible for the PROSAVI
program. Through the virtual cofinancing arrangement some INFONAVIT loans will be able
to utilize FOVI funding but benefit from direct loan repayment through payroll deduction
which is INFC)NAVIT's comparative advantage.
* Managing possible additional losses for 1998. Following the implementation of the new
credit rules, CNBV, with INFONAVIT, will review 1998 financial performance and require
additional provisioning, should it be necessary.



38                                                                 PRESIDENT'SREPORT
Defining enforcement plans. In addition to the powers granted to CNBV under the
Convenio, CNBV has expressed strong commitment to its enforcement, indicating that its
reputation as a financial sector supervisor is at stake. The signatories to the Convenio have
agreed that CNBV will withdraw regulatory forbearance if the terms of the Convenio are not
complied.
3.61  Compliance with the Convenio: CNBV's Implementation Arrangements. CNBV is
developing a set of financial performance indicators to follow up INFONAVIT's compliance
with the agreed clauses of the Convenio. Although it is still an ongoing exercise, the following
indicators are expected to be monitored: loan recoveries; past due loans; structure of loan
portfolio; operating expenses; leverage; loan-loss provisions; and financial performance.
3.62  Actions to be takenprior to CSDP II effectiveness include:
* establishment of an appropriate system of external financial controls beginning in 1999;
*  submission of a revised table of maximum credit amounts agreed with CNBV and approved
by INFONAVIT's Board of Governors; and
*  review of credit rules and loan rationing mechanism, and if necessary, submission of revised
rules to INFONAVIT's Board of Governors.
3.63 Bank Staff's assessment. A number of policy choices to reform INFONAVIT were
evaluated by the project team. From a technical perspective, introducing greater worker choice in
how workers' contributions in INFONAVIT are invested would have been the preferred policy
alternative along with deeper reforms which would change the institution's governance structure
and severely restrict its loan origination activity with the existing mortgage instrument and credit
rules. These reforms would have required important changes to INFONAVIT's law which, in
staff s judgement, were not feasible. The policy approach adopted by the Government through
the implementation of the Convenio could have a major impact on improving INFONAVIT's
operations and finances. It should be seen as a major step in the reform process which will lead
over time to the achievement by INFONAVIT of market rates of return for pension contributors
thereby bringing sustainability to this important component of the Government's social security
reform program.
C. Preparatory work for the Public and State pension systems
3.64  The 1997 reform did not contemplate reforms to the ISSSTE (Institute for Security and
Social Services for Government Workers - Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los
Trabajadores del Estado), PEMEX, other parastatals, and the state public pension plans. Hence, the
portability constraint across private and public sector workers' pension plans remains for now an
issue along with the financial disequilibrium to be faced in the future by these pension funds.
However, public sector workers only are approximately 2.5 million (Table 10). Thus, it should be
noted that the majority of covered workers (approximately 12 million) were included in the 1997
reforrn.



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                          39
IMSS                                  11.7                  82.3
ISSSTEandStates                       1.8                    12.3
Parastatals                          0.743                   5.4
(in thousands)
Bancomext                       1,726
Banobras                        1,894
Banrural                        7,873
CFE                            53,582
ISSFAM                         205,000
LCF                            35,585
Nafin                           2,461
Pemex                          98,889
IMSS occ.plan                  339,552
Sources: IMSS, ISSSTE, and Encuesta Nacional de Empleo, 1996.
3.65   ISSSTE, thLe largest public sector scheme, administers - at the Federal level - retirement,
pensioners' healthi benefits, and disability pensions based on payroll contributions of 7.25
percent of wages for public sector workers. As is the case for private sector workers, additional
retirement income is derived from contributions to a specialized housing fund based on an
employer-paid contribution of 6 percent of wages for public sector workers administered by the
Government Workers Housing Fund (Fondo para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE -
FOVISSSTE). ISSSTE population, compared to IMSS's, is older and more expensive.
Average age of affiliate               33.9                  41
Average number of years in service      9.4                  14
Average pension                          1                   2.7
(in minimum wages)
Source: 1996 Actuarial and Financial Valuation
3.66   In the preparatory work for the reform  of the public and state pension systems the
Government has advanced in the following two areas:
ISSSTE [Board Presentation 9a]:
The actuarial and financial diagnosis by an internationally recognized actuarial firm has
been finalized. The main conclusion is that the system is already facing a cash deficit,
estimated at P$3.7 billion in 1997 (approximately US$0.5 billion); P$4.6-4.8 in 1998, and
over P$6 billion in 1999. Contributions would have had to increase from 7.25% of payroll
to 14.95% to close the 1996 gap.
.  Given this financial disequilibrium  and the worsening demographics of the ISSSTE
population, the Government has initiated the detailed evaluation of the feasibility and the
fiscal transition costs of alternative reform strategies - supported by World Bank grant
financing.



40                                                                    PRESIDENT'SREPORT
States (32 pension schemes) [Board Presentation 9a]:
* In early 1997, the Government completed an initial survey of the available databases and
the actuarial and financial situation of the 32 public pension schemes at the State level. As
a result of this preliminary exercise, the Government decided to initiate an effort to institute
a minimum database in each State and to develop a standardized format for the actuarial and
financial valuation to be completed by all States.
*  During the first week of March 1998, the Ministry of Finance approved a standardized
format for the valuation (Proyecciones Demogrdficas y Financieras). These valuation
guidelines were designed through a joint effort of 7 actuarial firms. The Ministry of
Finance will provide the macroeconomic and financial hypothesis.
A Seminar is planned for early June 1998 to share with State representatives international
experiences on pension reform and the standardized formnat. This seminar will be
implemented with World Bank grant financing. The next step will be the application of
the standard format to the 32 State pension schemes.
D. Public Information
3.67 CONSAR is responsible for the dissemination of information about the new AFORE
system to the public. In the months leading to the system's start of operations the regulator
undertook a series of public relations efforts to educate workers on the premise behind the
reform, the mechanics of the system, and the role of its principal actors. CONSAR designed
information campaigns, ran advertisements on buses and billboards, recorded television and
radio broadcasts, released statements to the press, and closely monitored the content of
advertisements made by the AFOREs to ensure their integrity.' However, despite their efforts,
the authorities have been criticized for not communicating the fundamental changes to social
security brought about by the shift from the PAYG plan, to an individually capitalized, defined-
contribution system to the majority of Mexican workers. CONSAR is aware of the need for a
wider public education effort, but is constrained by the high price of radio and television
broadcast, that up to now, it has received at no cost by using non-peak airtime reserved for the
Government.
3.68  CONSAR has tried to bypass this constraint by designing information materials such as
brochures and video presentations that it latter disperses to the larger employers in the country
(employing 50 workers or more) and to job centers, in order to familiarize workers with the
benefits of the new system. Three separate promotional campaigns have been designed from
analysis of data gathered in worker surveys. Furthermore, in an effort to remain accessible to
employers, recently affiliated workers, and those considering affiliation, CONSAR maintains a
phone-in service to respond to questions and complaints. In addition, participants in the AFORE
system can go directly to CONSAR's headquarters to make their complaints in person: from
January to December 1997 CONSAR attended to the needs of 7,000 workers who visited the
regulator's headquarters. These efforts are being financed through the World Bank Financial
Sector Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL).
7 It should be noted that the bulk of fines levied on the AFOREs by the regulator in the months leading to full
operation of the new system, and shortly thereafter, were for misinforming the public.



MExico - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)                41
E. Complementary Financial Market Reforms
3.69 The sustainability of the Mexican pension reform hinges on implementation of
complementary financial sector reform. As an integral part of the overall financial sector, the
performance of the pension system is linked to the health of the overall financial sector. The
Government recognizes this link and is undertaking a series of steps aimed at strengthening
various institutions in the financial sector. This section provides a brief overview of some of the
developments in the financial markets in Mexico. Annex V provides further details on the
reforms in these sectors.
El. Banking Sector
3.70 Mexico's financial system continues to be dominated by commercial banks and their
financial holding companies. These banks were hard hit by the devaluation of the peso in late
1994. The ensuing crisis in 1995 revealed and deepened the already poor asset quality in banks'
balance sheets. The Government has taken steps to restructure the banking system and increase
public confidence in the banking system, though at high fiscal costs (estimated at over 14% of
1997 GDP). The sector has been opened up to foreign investments, supervision and regulation
have been improved and universal deposit insurance (FOBAPROA) is now available. In addition,
several systemic issues are being addressed including the fiscal recognition of the costs of the
banking crisis.
3.71  In designing the new pension system, the Government took various steps to insulate the
AFOREs from the problems of the banking system:
*  The influence of the banks on the management of the AFOREs was minimized through
the requirement that all AFOREs be established as single-purpose separately capitalized
companies. T'he capital of an AFORE that is a subsidiary of a financial group is not available
to meet the obligations of other subsidiaries of the group.
* The extent of' pension fund investment in the banking sector was also limited by requiring
that SIEFOREs be permitted to hold a maximum of 10% of their assets in bank securities.
*  A regulation requiring that this 10% investment be made only in bank instruments with a
high credit rating (AA or above or equivalent by any of the three approved rating agencies)
ensures that the pension assets will be invested only in high quality instruments.
As of March 13, 1998, the AFOREs had invested an extremely small portion of their aggregate
portfolios (less than 0.25%) in bank instruments. The investments are in high quality short term
commercial papers. Hence, the limit of 10% of assets of each AFORE's assets is far from being
reached at the moment.
E2. Mutualfundts
3.72  As of January 31, 1998 the Mexican mutual fund industry consisted of 345 mutual funds
and 39 mutual ftnd operating companies, with total assets under management of $13.8 billion
with an investor base of about 321,000 investors. Almost $11 billion of assets are invested in
debt instruments and the balance in equities. The industry has been characterized by volatility in
both the number of investors and assets under management. The trend has been that individual
small investors have been declining and the funds have become more institutional. The number



42                                                                PRESIDENT'SREPORT
of investors has come down sharply since the high in 1993 and the industry is still recovering
from the impact of the 1994 peso crisis. The size of the industry, measured by the aggregate
amount of assets under management as a percentage of GDP, has been in the range of 3.2-3.4%
since 1995. Mutual fund shareholders in Mexican population is currently 0.3%, a fifth of the
population with bank accounts. This percentage has been gradually declining since the early
1990's. Performance data on an industry wide-basis along with an appropriate comparative
benchmark is unavailable.
3.73  The introduction of the private pension system has had a salutary effect on the regulation
of the mutual fund sector in Mexico. Recognizing the weaknesses in the regulatory structure for
mutual funds, the CNBV is currently considering reforms, which would bring the mutual fund
regulation more in line with the pension fund regulation. As part of the reforms, the CNBV is
considering the introduction of a mutual fund rating system along the lines of those published by
Morningstar in the US. These ratings are proposed to be done by the rating agencies.
E3. Voluntary pension plans
3.74  Several Mexican corporations have established voluntary pension plans for their worker's
over and above the mandatory social security programs. These schemes involve employee
contributions of between 2-6% with the plan assets managed by a bank or a brokerage firm.
These plans are essentially unregulated, although they are subject to certain broad portfolio
requirements by the SHCP. As part of the reform of the mandatory system, the new pension law
provided a framework to bring the voluntary pension plans under CONSAR's supervision.
CONSAR has recently issued regulations by which a voluntary pension plan can be registered
with CONSAR. Such registration is voluntary at the moment. Pension plans choosing to be
registered need to be certified as actuarially sound and maintain that status on an ongoing basis.
Participants of plans that register with CONSAR and subject themselves to its supervision have
significant advantages such as the ability to transfer their retirement accounts' at the AFOREs to
their private plan upon retirement and receive pensions under the terms of the voluntary plan. As
many voluntary plans provide pensions at an earlier age than the mandatory system, such
flexibility is attractive to the workers.
E4. Development of Long-Term Instruments and Financial Services
3.75  Long-term Government debt markets. Pension liabilities are typically long term and
the natural asset to hedge such liabilities is a long duration instrument such as long term bonds.
Mexico's Government bond markets are poorly developed and provide mostly short-term (less
than one year duration) bonds. Over 95% of all trades - both in the Bolsa and over-the-counter -
are in overnight securities. There is almost no liquidity in long-term instruments. While
historically, the cause of this underdeveloped state may have been the chronic inflation, it is
essential that now the Government considers development of this market segment.
3.76  Corporate debt market. The large presence of the banking sector in Mexico's economy
has traditionally implied that the level of intermediation has been very high. Most corporate
lending was from banks that in turn financed these assets from deposits. The presence of
institutional pension funds provides a natural alternate source of funds for high quality corporates
to raise funds. Development of a sound corporate debt market would provide another investment



MFUCO- SECOND CONTRACTUALSAVINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM(CSDP II)                  43
vehicle for the pension funds. The investment regulations permit investment up to 35% in rated
private debt instruments. However, the actual investment by the SIEFOREs in private
instrumnents is very small (less than 1% up to March 13, 1998). Lack of adequate highly rated
corporate paper and the low risk adjusted returns on private paper are the main reasons for the
low level of investments in private securities.
3.77 Housing mortgage market. Long term securitized housing mortgages are a good
investment vehicle for pension funds, which have long-term liabilities. The availability of long-
term investors should also help to stimulate the housing market. However, the quality of the
investments depends to a large extent on the availability of appropriate instruments and
efficiency of the mortgage market. The Government is taking an active role in restructuring the
existing housing finance market. It is in the process of making the operations of FOVI more
market-oriented and the operations of INFONAVIT more transparent.
3.78    Financial Intermediaries. Credit rating agencies, custodial services, third-party
performance assessment services (similar to Morningstar and Lipper in the US) are some of the
other players in the overall financial infrastructure that are required for maximizing the economic
benefits of a privatized pension system. Mexico currently has three rating agencies, a central
depository that offers partial custodial services, and no independent performance assessment
agencies. The Gcvernment will examine these segments of the financial infrastructure and take
appropriate policy actions to assist in their development as part of the overall development of the
financial sector.
IV. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Overall Assistance Strategy
4.1   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The loan is consistent with the CAS objectives of
growth, stability, and the modernization of the state set forth in the Mexico CAS (Report 16135-
ME) discussed by the Executive Directors in December 1996 and the recent CAS update
discussed by the Executive Directors on March 6, 1998. The proposed loan would directly
address the actions for reforming the pension system identified in the CAS and support several
other CAS objectives.
4.2   Other CAS objectives that will be supported by the proposed loan include growth, which
would be supported by (a) improving the incentives for employment in the formal sector by
lowering the burclen of payroll taxes; (b) increasing the efficiency of the pension system, thereby
reducing its distortionary effects on the economy; and (c) increasing long-term institutional
savings. Economic and social stability would be enhanced by improving the fiscal and financial
sustainability of the pension system, and by its contribution to social equity, a crucial element for
social and political stability. Modernization of the state would be enhanced since the reform
would aid Mexico in following other Latin American and OECD nations in reforming their
pension systems and guaranteeing workers a better retirement income.
4.3   Past Lending. The proposed loan represents the second operation in a series of three
one-tranche adjustment loans requested by the Government of Mexico aimed at supporting the
reform of its pension system and complementary financial sector actions. This is the product of



44                                                                PRESIDENT'S REPORT
several years of continued policy dialogue and sector analysis. Bank lending for pension and
financial sector reform in Mexico initiated in 1995 with the Financial Sector Technical
Assistance Loan (FTAL) and a Supplemental FTAL. These loans helped in the initial stages of
what later on became clear policy considerations to reform the pension system. Pension lending
began with the FY96 CSDP I (US$ 400 million) and, since then preparation of other related
lending operations was undertaken, specifically policy reforms in the health and housing sectors.
4.4   Future Lending. As indicated in the CAS, future Bank lending in the area of pension
reform is expected to incorporate a third Contractual Savings Development Program during
FY99/FYO0.
4.5   Experience with Adjustment Lending in Mexico.  The Bank experience with
adjustment lending in Mexico in the late 1980s and early 1990s has been mixed. Although most
of the development objectives supported by the operations were eventually achieved,
implementation lagged. Implementation delays were the results of the disparity between
expectations of quick adjustment disbursements and the deliberate pace in concluding sensitive
policy reforms. The main lesson from this experience is that adjustment operations should be
designed with broad-based Government commitment to policy reforms agreed with domestic
stakeholders and to carefully link disbursements to clear and significant policy reforms. Based
on the lessons learned, the proposed adjustment loan: (a) has been prepared by Mexican and
Bank teams in true partnership fashion, building on policy reforrns already underway, and (b)
will continue being supported by technical assistance (FTAL and Supplemental FTAL) which
closely track programs under the adjustment operation and provide timely technical input as
needed.
B. Coordination with the IMF
4.6   The policy reforms supported under this operation, and in particular the measures to
strengthen the performance of the private pension system - including the improved performance
of INFONAVIT - are congruent with the IMF's objectives in Mexico. Despite the lack of a
formal agreement involving the use of Fund resources, the IMF and the Government continue to
be in close consultations and are in general agreement over fiscal policy. The IMF has been
appraised of the progress of this operation and the policy reforms contemplated therein, and has
raised no objections.
C. Coordination with the IDB
4.7   Given the current economic situation, the IDB strategy for Mexico is divided into short-
and longer-term components. The IDB's short-term objective is to support Government efforts
to reestablish macroeconomic stability through (i) program lending aimed at assuring the
solvency of the financial sector and (ii) helping finance the basic needs of those most affected by
the crisis. To these ends, the IDB has cofinanced both of the World Bank's large crisis-related
operations: the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan and the Essential Social Services Loan. The
IDB cofinanced the earlier CSDP I with a US$300 million two-tranche adjustment loan.
Discussions relating to the disbursement of the second tranche (US$150 million) are ongoing.
4.8   The IDB's longer-term objectives are to support Government efforts to: (i) achieve
sustained economic growth, via infrastructure investments aimed at private sector development,
agricultural productivity growth, and human resources development; (ii) promote equitable



MEXICO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA ViNGSDEVELOPAMENTPROGRAM (CSDP II)               45
growth, through programs to reduce poverty and to improve the provision of social services
(education, nutrition, and health) --relying on and reinforcing the capacity of states and
municipalities and of the private sector; and (iii) achieve environmentally sustainable growth,
through programs geared to protect the environment and natural resources.
V.   THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Loan Size and Proposed Tranche Conditionality
5.1   Loan Size. A single tranche loan of US$400 million is proposed to be made available
upon loan effectiveness, anticipated for October 1998. The loan closing date would be June 30,
1999.
5.2   Proposed Tranche Conditionality. The policy actions below have been selected based
on their importance in the implementation of the new pension system and in the setting up of the
conditions for the expansion of the reforms to public sector workers. In addition to the specific
actions listed below, tranche release would be contingent upon: (a) maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic framework; and (b) satisfactory progress in the implementation of
the overall Contractual Savings Development Program which is outlined in the Government's
Letter of Sector FPolicy (Annex I).
5.3   The following policy actions were taken prior to Board Presentation:
1) Regulatory framework: CONSAR issued key regulations in the areas of: (a) disclosure
(para. 3.4); and (b) administration of individual accounts still in the Central Bank,
including (i) regulations on the outsourcing of information to workers and (ii) related fees
(para. 3.5);
2) Operation and efficiency of new pension system: (a) CONSAR has authorized
AFOREs in a timely fashion (para. 3.6); (b) CONSAR has issued general rules governing
affiliation contract (para. 3.7); (c) affiliation of at least 60% of potential IMSS's workers
(para. 3.7); (d) CONSAR has issued regulations relating to the switching among AFOREs
(para. 3.10); (e) CONSAR has issued regulations relating to the functioning of the
centralized collection and record-keeping system (para. 3.16); (f) generation of CURPs
for at least 25% of potential affiliates (para. 3.16); (g) the computerized reporting system
(SUA) was developed and implemented (para. 3.16); (h) CONSAR has issued regulations
on the maximum fees to be charged by PROCESAR for processing, reconciling, and
disbursing information on the administration of individual accounts (para 3.17); and (i)
CONSAR has finalized a study comparing commissions charged by AFOREs in a
standardized format (para. 3.22);
3) Transfer of SAR92 balances: (a) CONSAR, SHCP, and Banco de Mexico (Central
Bank) have issued detailed guidelines to make operational transfer of SAR92 balances
(para. 3.25); and (b) transfer of at least 20% of accumulated assets in SAR92 accounts at
the Central Bank have been transferred to AFOREs (para 3.26);
4) Investment policies and risk management: (a) CONSAR has issued necessary
modifications and changes to initial investment guidelines relating to investments in
inflation-indexed bonds, cash holdings, repurchase agreements, and asset valuation (para
3.32); and (b) CONSAR has established two committees to oversee its operations in the
risk management area (para. 3.34);



46                                                                 PRESIDENT'SREPORT
5) Supervision and enforcement: CONSAR has issued regulations establishing the
methodology for the valuation of eligible instruments (para. 3.37);
6) Disability and life (IV): (a) the Insurance Law was modified to incorporate the changes
to the provision of IV benefits under the reformed Social Security Law and to make
operational the provision of such benefits by authorized private insurance companies
(para 3.47); (b) CNSF issued a number of regulations to make operational the new
scheme (para 3.47); and (c) a Department in charge of supervision of pension-related
insurance (Direcci6n General de Supervisi6n del Seguro de Pensiones) was established
within CNSF (para 3. 47);
7) Update of fiscal costs of transition: the Government has completed the 1997 update to
the sensitivity analysis of the fiscal costs of transition and the evaluation of actuarial
methodologies and the data base (para 3.52);
8) INFONAVIT: (a) INFONAVIT, SHCP and CNBV signed an agreement on March 27,
1998, and approved by INFONAVIT's Board of Governors on March 30, 1998, to restore
INFONAVIT to financial health within a five year period through a major operational
and financial restructuring program (para. 3.58); (b) INFONAVIT has accepted new
accounting standards to be issued by CNBV which are consistent with the rules
applicable to commercial banks for mortgage loans (para. 3.59); (c) INFONAVIT has
stopped accruing, and created provisions against, interest and indexation of non
performing loans (para. 3.59); and (d) INFONAVIT has provisioned for its non
performing loans as required by CNBV and based on the findings of the external auditing
firm and CNBV's inspections (para. 3.59);
9) Preparatory work for the Public and State Pension systems (a) finalization of
actuarial and financial valuation of ISSSTE and initiation of detailed evaluation of
feasibility and fiscal costs of alternative reform strategies (para 3.66); and (b) finalization
of initial survey of data bases and actuarial and financial situation of 32 pension systems
at the State level and approval of standardized valuation format (para. 3.66).
5.4   The following policy actions on INFONAVIT would be taken prior to effectiveness:
(a) establishment of an appropriate system of external financial controls beginning in
1999 (para 3.62);
(b) submission of a revised table of maximum credit amounts agreed with CNBV and
approved by INFONAVIT's Board of Governors (para 3.62); and
(c) review of credit rules and loan rationing mechanism, and if necessary, submission of
revised rules to INFONAVIT's Board of Governors (para 3.62).
5.5   The third phase of the reform program is expected to focus on reforms in the relevant
institutions, in particular INFONAVIT, CONSAR, and the AFOREs to ensure the long-term
sustainability of the pension reform. Indicative actions are presented in para. 2.8 and Annex II.
The third phase is expected to be supported by a proposed third Contractual Savings
Development Program Loan to be presented to the Board towards mid-2000.
B.    Technical Assistance
5.6   The technical assistance requirements of this operation are being financed through the
Financial Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL) associated with FSRL I. In addition, a Policy and



MExCO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEvELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP HI)               47
Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) in the amount of US$975,000 was approved on
July 26, 1996 to support the preparation of the second phase of the Contractual Savings
Development Program. A supplemental PHRD in the amount of US$975,000 was approved in
April 1998. Support through a technical assistance loan for INFONAVIT's restructuring
program is under discussion with the authorities.
C.   Disbursement and Auditing
5.7   Disbursements. The proposed second contractual savings program will be supported by
a World Bank adjustment loan of US$400 million, to be disbursed in one tranche. BANOBRAS
as the Borrower and financial agent for the loan would be responsible for submitting withdrawal
applications and would maintain separate records and accounts for all transactions under the
Loan. The Borrower will open an account in the Central Bank. Upon Bank notification of
tranche release, proceeds of the loans will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the request
of the Government. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for
ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or
services in the standard negative list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return
that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the
Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
5.8   Auditing. BANOBRAS will maintain separate records for all transactions under the
loan. Upon the Bank's request the Borrower shall have the deposit account audited in
accordance with standard Bank requirements.
D.   Lessons Learned
5.9   The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
phase of the CSDP (supported by the Bank's one-tranche CSDP I loan)8 are:
(i) The Importance of Borrower Ownership. As in any adjustment program, Borrower
ownership of conditionality under the loan is critical. Because of the Government's strong
commitment to reform of the pension system, the design, negotiation, and implementation of the
program were carefully carried out in a collaborative environment. Strong technical and political
leadership on the part of the Mexican authorities, complemented by a well qualified technical
team, provided a good context for taking full advantage of the Bank's advice and facilitated the
dissemination of lbest practice. The proactive nature of Borrower participation in the program
contributed to the credibility and the sustainability of the reform
(ii) Need for Sensitivity to Political Economy of Reform. The political economy surrounding
the formulation of labor policy has consistently constrained the reform agenda of even the most
resolute of governments. Social security reform is particularly treacherous, and especially so in
the midst of an election year, and a deep, although short-lived economic crisis. Political factors
and the legislative needs of the client need to be understood at entry, and should be included in
the Bank's dialogue with the client. In the case of the Mexican reform, the Bank's willingness to
lower its profile at the request of the authorities avoided the impact of domestic perceptions of
outside interference in the reform process.
' The ICR rates the outcome of CSDP I as highly satisfactory.



48                                                                  PRESIDENT'S REPORT
(iii) Selection of an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly ambitions and
politically sensitive policy agenda, the implementation team chose to negotiate a medium-term
reforn strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche adjustment
operations (STOs) - a lending vehicle design by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of
lengthy adjustment operations from significant political shifts in borrowing countries. The
Bank's choice of the STO over the traditional multiple-tranche option provided the Bank with
greater agility in the disbursement of the loan, and enhanced efficiency and leverage in the
formulation of policy actions under the proposed second loan. So far the decision to agree on a
medium tern reform strategy supported by well focused STO's appears to be an innovative and
tactically appropriate response, suggesting that new Bank products can make the institution a
more effective partner in the development process.
(iv) Close Cooperation with Cofinanciers. Coordination with the IDB was continuous and
fruitful for both institutions and the client. However, in joint adjustment programs it is essential
to maintain highly compatible if not identical conditionality between the cofinanciers.
Conflicting conditionality can send mixed signals to the Borrower.
(v) Consistency in Objectives and Coordination between Bank Operations. In the course of
preparing and implementing complex sector operations, it is essential to orchestrate the
objectives of related Bank projects in order to ensure consistency and the achievement of
desirable outcomes. In implementing the first phase of the Contractual Savings Development
Program, and the complex financial sector adjustments required under CSDP I, both the Mexican
authorities and staff at the Bank relied on extensive work carried out under the preceding FSRL
and FTAL. Additionally, preparatory work for CSDP II related to reform of INFONAVIT, has
been carefully coordinated with the bank's team working on housing finance.
E.    Monitoring and Reporting
5.10  Monitoring and reporting will be facilitated through the close coordination of activities
and implementation agencies supported by the FTAL and technical assistance from the Bank.
Under the FTAL, technical assistance is being provided to assist the Government in
implementation of the overall program through CONSAR, CNSF, and SHCP.
F.    Benefits and Risks
5.11  Benefits. As with the CSDP I Loan, the implementation of the Government's contractual
savings development program, supported by CSDP II, will result in a number of important benefits:
a.  The change from an actuarially bankrupt defined/benefit system to a fully funded
defined-contribution scheme will increase public savings in the longer term. If the
current system were maintained, eventually the actuarial deficit would have to be met
with a subsidy from the fiscal account, an increase in contributions, or a decrease in
benefits. Analytical work on pension reform for public sector and state employees will
review options and help estimate the costs of moving to a financially sustainable
pension scheme for these workers.
b.  The separation of the pension and health sector schemes will result in greater pressure
to improve efficiency in the delivery of public health services. The efficiency of health
services delivery must improve to avoid an increase in contributions or a cut in
benefits.



MEWGCO - SECOND CONTRACTUAL SA VINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP /1)                  49
c. The reform has created a new class of institutional investors (AFORES) and an
increased volume of institutionalized saving. As institutional investors gain expertise
in managing pension funds, the allocative efficiency of domestic savings will increase.
In addition, institutional investor demand for long-term assets permits the possibility
of the development of markets for long-term financial instruments.
d. To the extent that institutional investors hold bank-related financial paper, a likely
outcome in the near term, these investors can play an important role in monitoring and
controlling bank risk by avoiding the paper of risky banks.
5.12  The pension reform is expected to have a positive social impact. Low-income formal sector
workers rely heavily on publicly provided pensions for sustainable post-retirement income
generally due to an insufficient accumulation of other savings. The establishment of SAR accounts
in the first phase of reforms in May 1992 provided many individuals with their first account with a
commercial bank. The Government's reform program is expanding access to financial services to a
broader base of the population and at the same time provides greater incentives for informal
workers to join the formal economy. Specifically, the implementation of the reforns supported by
the proposed operation will allow individuals to accumulate personal wealth, benefiting from
higher real rates of return in a broader range of investment vehicles improving post-retirement
living standards. The public information campaign being carried out has gradually increased
awareness of the benefits of the new pension scheme and change current perception so that
contributions are jperceived to be linked to benefits and an accumulation of wealth rather than as a
tax.
5.13  As workers retire under the reformed system they will buy annuities to convert the assets
accumulated in their pension accounts to yearly income to provide for retirement, which will
require the development of a regulatory framework for a private annuity market. This already
underway in the disability and life insurance areas. The growth of a private insurance industry will
create a broader irLstitutional investor base, which will support development of capital markets.
5.14  Risks. There are several major risks which could limit the effectiveness and impede the
success of the proposed pension reform program:
a.  slippages or inadequate supervision of private pension fund managers;
b.  the weakening of the banking system adversely affecting the reformed pension system;
c.  difficulties in establishing unique identification numbers for contributors and in
reconciling multiple accounts which would delay the implementation of the pension
reform.
d.  inadequate improvements in INFONAVIT's financial performance;
e.  slower-than-expected development of a long-term securities market which would reduce
the investment options of pension funds, potentially constraining their returns; and
f. lack olf sufficient fiscal discipline necessary to maintain a favorable macroeconomic
environment.
5.15  The track record to date on the first risk is very encouraging. CONSAR has been judged
to have effectively carried out its regulatory responsibilities. CONSAR has been and will



50                                                                  PRESIDENT'SREPORT
continue to be conservative in permitting new funds with different risk profiles while to
continuing to build its capacity.
5.16  To prevent the weaknesses of the banking system from adversely affecting the reformed
pension system, the Government's CSDP includes specific safeguards with respect to the
investment by AFORES in commercial bank liabilities. In addition, the Government has initiated a
second stage of banking reforms to ensure the restoration of the health of the banking system.
5.17  To preserve competition and reduce extreme reliance on financial conglomerates, the
Government has tried to facilitate broad entry and limit regulatory barriers in the establishment of
pension fund operators to stimulate competition. Limits included on foreign participation in
pension fund operators are only partial. In addition, these limits do not apply to a number of
countries with whom Mexico has reached agreements, including the U.S. and Canada under North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Of particular importance have been Government
actions to permit each investment fund account administrator to sub-contract services freely in such
areas as collections and account processing.
5.18  Progress to date has been satisfactory in instituting a unique identification number for each
account holder and reconciling accounts for approximately 12 million contributors.
5.19 The Government recognizes the importance of improving INFONAVIT's performance to
ensure better retums for workers and minimize fiscal costs resulting from the minimum pension
guarantee. A strengthened supervisory presence by CNBV under the recently signed Convenio is
expected to help set the stage for a serious restructuring of INFONAVIT's operations and finances.
5.20  The risk of a slower-than-expected supply response for a variety of long-term securities is
being mitigated by: (i) reasonable prospects for macro-economic and monetary stability; and (ii)
improvements in the legal/regulatory framework for securities markets and mutual funds.
5.21   Finally, the potential for weakening of fiscal discipline will persist but is mitigated by both
Mexico's growth potential over the medium term and the significant amount of time remaining in
the term of the current administration which is strongly committed to these reforms. In addition,
the cost of the pension reform at between 1 and 2 percent of GDP has been adequately estimated
and is manageable. The low overall level of pensions and the favorable demographic structure in
Mexico are important factors which are helping to minimize the fiscal costs of the transition
compared with other countries in the region. Sensitivity studies using different rates of return and
actuarial estimates indicate that the range of costs fall within the scope of recent fiscal efforts and
are achievable both in the short and long term.
G.   Program Objective Categories
5.22 The loan belongs to the category of Economic Management by helping the Government
develop policy and tools to limit the fiscal impact of pension reform and stimulate growth in the
formal employment sector. The loan will also have long-term effects in Private Sector
Development by opening avenues for true private sector competition in the management of



MWCO - SECOND CONTRRACTUAL SA vINGSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM (CSDP 11)                   51
retirement savings. Poverty Alleviation would also be supported through the extension of social
security coverage to informal sector workers and the self-employed.
5.23  Environmental Aspects. The program is not expected to have any environmental
impact; it has been thus rated C.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
6.1    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and recommiend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President



ANNEXI
Page I of 4
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM LOAN (CSDP II)
GOVERNMENT LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
FOR
THE SECOND PHASE OF THE CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM1
Mexico City, May 13, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
EXC 85120 Room E 1227
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
With regard to the loan requested from the World Bank in support of the Second
Contractual Savings Development Program, I would like to draw your attention to a number of
relevant developments in the Mexican economy and the Government's macroeconomic policy,
and in particular to steps taken and to be taken to reform the country's pension system.
In 1997, the Government's economic policy objective was to consolidate the recovery
process begun in 1996 while maintaining the decline in inflation, and to do so in a context of
market stability conducive to the mobilization and increase of savings and investment flows.
The year saw clear progress in consolidation of the country's openness to trade, in the strength of
its public finances, in the prudent management of its monetary policy, and in the sound financing
of its current account deficit.
Against this background, gross domestic product (GDP) grew by a real 7% in 1997, a
figure not seen in the previous 16 years. This expansion led to the creation of new sources of
employment, with the result that open unemployment fell to 3.2%, or almost half the level
recorded at the high point of the crisis. Great strides have also been made in bringing down
inflation to 15.7% for the year, or to less than a third of the figure for the previous two years.
The external debt strategy that was followed resulted in a reduction of US$10.4 billion compared
to 1996.
In 1997, public finances were managed with strict fiscal discipline. Government
expenditure increased by 6.7% in real terms, and was financed chiefly from increased taxation,
both oil and non-oil. The public sector primary balance showed a surplus of P$ 110.1 billion,
equivalent to 3.42%/o of GDP. This resulted in a general balance deficit of P$24.5 billion,
equivalent to 0.76% of GDP. The current account showed a deficit of 1.8% of GDP, amply
covered by unprecedented inflows of foreign direct investment, totaling close to US$12.1 billion.
' Unofficial translation from the original Spanish text.



ANNEXI
Page 2 of 4
It is important to mention that as a result of its open trade policy instituted several years
ago, Mexico today possesses a dynamic external sector, which has been a crucial element in its
recovery. The total value of the country's foreign trade was approximately US$220 billion,
equivalent to over half its GDP, making it the tenth-ranked exporter in the world and the first-
ranked in Latin America.
On the basis of its progress in 1997, Mexico has set the following primary economic
policy objectives for 1998: (a) to create the conditions which will ensure that the expansion in
productive activity and employment is reflected in higher income levels and living standards for
the population at large; and (b) to continue laying firm foundations to support sustainable growth
in productive activity and employment over the medium term, in a context of declining inflation.
Success in achieving these goals requires an ample and stable pool of savings from which to
finance the necessary investment, ongoing moves to increase the efficiency of the production
apparatus, and renewed efforts in the campaign against poverty.  Consolidation of the
stabilization process will also be fundamental to that success. Continued sound management of
public sector finances and application of a monetary policy geared to low inflation targets, will
also be essential in promoting stability and reducing the inflation rate permanently.
Despite the less favorable character of the international environment owing to the
anticipated decline in the US economic growth rate, the adverse effects of the crisis in Southeast
Asia, and the fall in oil prices, Mexico's expectations for 1998 are close to 5% real economic
growth, and achievement of a 12% inflation target.
The public sector deficit is expected to be equivalent to 1.2% of GDP, and the current
account deficit to be in the approximate range 2.5-3% of GDP. Projections indicate that the latter
will be covered by long-term external savings, including resources drawn from international
financial agencies like the World Bank.
In order to ensure that the goals set for the 1998 economic program are achieved, the
national budget has been cut back on two occasions to bring it into line with the reduction in
projected revenue from oil exports following the drop in oil prices. As part of the process
Mexico is currently going through, and in order to create the conditions that will help generate
the domestic savings required to finance national development, the Government has instituted a
series of reforms to the pension system.
Besides giving workers the certainty of having adequate savings for their retirement
years, these reforms will create a broad base of domestic long-term savings that the country can
draw on to finance a range of productive activities that require long maturation periods, develop
its own capital market, and promote cost-effective projects.
The first phase of the Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP), together with
the technical and financial support provided by the international financial institutions, especially
the World Bank, contributed materially to the implementation of major reforms in this sector.
The primary objectives of CSDP were to increase the equity, efficiency, and long-term
sustainability of the pension system, gradually expand its effective coverage, and limit the fiscal
impact of the reforn process.



ANNEXI
Page 3 of 4
In December 1995, the Mexican Congress enacted legislation that replaced the former
pay-as-you-go system with a new system of individually funded investment accounts.
Subsequently, the April 1996 Retirement Savings Systems Act established the structure and
delineated the powers of CONSAR, the National Retirement Savings Commission. In December
1996, the legislation establishing INFONAVIT was amended to adjust that agency's operations
to those of the pension system and to lay the foundations for joint collection arrangements with
the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS). In addition, provisions were introduced for a
mechanism to facilitate cofinancing with banks and limited-purpose financial corporations
(SOFOLEs).
CONSAR oversees the proper functioning of the pension system, and issues general
guidelines governing the operation and supervision of AFOREs and SIEFOREs. Its general
mandate is to ensure that workers' resources are invested safely and generate adequate returns.
On June 30, 1997, CONSAR issued rules prescribing in clear terms the investment
regime with which all SIEFOREs must comply. Their portfolios are required to consist
essentially of securities that maintain the purchasing power of workers' savings.
In addition, CONSAR requires that workers receive regular disclosure on such important
aspects of the new system as SIEFORE investment returns, commissions and fees, and the
balances in their individual accounts.
The data obtained so far from indicators of the performance of the new system warrant a
conclusion that the initial objectives set have been accomplished fully, and in some cases
exceeded. At the present time, a total of 17 AFOREs participate in the market; they receive
worker and employer contributions for over 12 million workers and have close to P$25 billion
under management. These resources consist only of funds deposited in the old-age and
severance insurance sub-account. The efforts made have produced results, and have laid the right
foundations for generating domestic long-term savings.
The Government will continue its efforts to broaden, deepen, and consolidate reform of
the pension system, to strengthen CONSAR's supervisory capacity and to obtain better returns
on funds deposited in the housing sub-account managed by INFONAVIT. It is against this
background that Mexico is seeking World Bank financial support to advance the second phase of
the Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II), the objectives of which are to
guarantee more comprehensive social security.
One of the major aims of CSDP II is to strengthen the capacity of INFONAVIT to
produce positive real returns on the worker resources deposited in the housing sub-account. To
that end, CNBV, the National Banking and Securities Commission, exercising its powers under
the law and acting on the best available estimates of INFONAVIT's past-due portfolio,
recommended in March 1998 that the institute set aside additional contingency reserves in excess
of its net worth. After reviewing INFONAVIT's financial situation, CNBV granted it regulatory
facilities to enable it to establish the required reserves over time, providing it put in place
remedial measures that would guarantee its financial viability.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
At its meeting on March 30, 1998, the board of directors of INFONAVIT ratified an
agreement (the "Convenio") between itself, the Finance Ministry (SHCP), and CNBV, that spells
out in detail the measures indicated above and specifies the dates by which they are to be put into
effect. The General Meeting of INFONAVIT, its highest governing body, ratified all clauses of
this agreement at its session of April 29, 1998, instructing the institute's management to report to
it at regular intervals on progress with the implementation process.
SHCP and CNBV will be in charge of ensuring strict compliance with the Convenio. The
restructuring program includes reforms in INFONAVIT's administrative structure, operations,
and credit policies.
Another key aim of CSDP II is to consolidate the powers that enable CONSAR to carry
out its mandate as the regulatory authority over the pension system. In the next few years the
Government's primary interest is in seeing CONSAR exercise absolute oversight authority not
only over the AFOREs and SIEFOREs, but also over all other actors in the system.
The main components of the second phase of the Contractual Savings Development
Program will be:
*     implementation and consolidation of reforms to the new pension system covering
private sector workers;
*     updating of estimates of the fiscal cost of the reform;
*     support for INFONAVIT's reform efforts to improve its operating efficiency and
thereby raise the yields workers earn on their housing sub-accounts;
*     progress with preparations for reforms to strengthen the pension systems covering
workers in the public sector;
*     continuing information and education campaigns to increase the public's
knowledge and understanding of the pension system;
*     implementation of complementary financial market reforms.
Implementation of these measures is expected to have a favorable impact on the
operations and functioning of the new pension system, and thus to contribute to Mexico's social
and economic development. Consolidation of reform of the pension system is a major priority in
the Federal Government's development strategy, and support from the World Bank in reaching
that objective will be invaluable.
Please allow me to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to the World Bank,
and to thank you as its President for the organization's willingness to support the advance of the
second phase of Contractual Savings Development Program in Mexico.
Yours truly,
Angel Gurria
Secretary



ANNEX If (PAGE!  OF 9)
CSDP 11: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
(Actions in italics are nzot included in the legal agreenments, but represent an indication of the inedium-ternifraanework)
CSDP II
OBJECTIVE              ACTIONS SUPPORTED BY CSDP I                  ACTIONS TAKEN PRIOR TO BOARD    AC'TIONS EXPECTED DURING THE
(1995-96)                                  PRESENTATION                         TfIIRD PHASE OF THE PROGRAM
.: _______'_, ____  ' _________________ _'      _ _'._.r_,__'_ _''__            '(;January  97   - April_98)  _____nu_y_9_-_pri_98
MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Maintenance of a     Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework  Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework   Alfaintenance of a sound macroeconomic
supportive           consistent with the policy objectives and pro-ram  consistent with the policy objectives and prograni    frainework consistent with the programn. 
macroeconomic        described in the Letter of Sector Policy.       described in the Letter of Sector Policy.
program.               _
A. IMPLEMENTATION AND CONSOLIDATION OF THE 1997 REFORM TO-TIHE PENSION SYSTEM FOR PRIVATE SECTOR WORKERS
Al. Legal and ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~reguatory framewor
Enact legal changes    *  Private sector workers: On December 11,    CONSAR issued additional regulations (circulares)
for the reform the       1995, a new Social Security Law was enacted    on:                                           *  Continued satisfactory implenentation
PAYG pillar and shift   to move from a Government pay-as-you-go,     *  Disclosure:                                       andfine-tuning of the reformed system
toward private           defined benefits scheme to a mandatory,        *  general infornation (Circular 19-1         *  Identify specific actions to increase
management of            defined contributions scheme permitting            [11/17/97]);                                  coverage, ifreformed system has no
pension funds and        private management. The new system was         *  accounting and balance sheet (Circulares       significant impact
ensure timely and       implemented beginning on July 1, 1997.               12-1 [4/16/97] and 12-4 [3/11/98]);
flexible regulatory  m  On April 26, 1996, the Ley de los Sistemas de   *  mo        r
framework (CSDP I).      Ahorro para el Retiro was enacted and               mONSAR repor to be                                                               l
includes, inter alia, general principles related   CONSAR (Circular 25-1 [12/11/97]);
to: (i) entry and exit procedures for AFOREs   *  general information disclosure by AFOREs
Implement and fine-      (ii) disclosure requirements; (iii) conflict of    (Circular 9-1 [1/10/971);
tune the legal and      interest; and (iv) AFOREs' and SIEFOREs'        *  prospectus for each SIEFORE (Cir. 10- 1
regulatory framework     operating rules.                                   [1/14/97] and 10-2 [6/30/97]);
for AFOREs and       *  Regulations (Circulares) issued: (a) by         *  Individual Statement to be sent to workers
SIEFOREs to ensure       CONSAR relating to: (i' eligibility                with the financial performance and balances
the success of the       requirements to establish AFOREs; (ii)             of the AFORE and INFONAVIT accounts
new pension system       commission and fee structure; (iii)                (Circular 8-2 [2/12/981). And
(CSDP 11)                capitalization; and (iv) marketing; and (b) by  D  Confidentiality of individual account
SHCP relating to: authorization of foreign         information by entities involved in the
ownership of AFOREs.



ANNEX 11 (PAGE 2 OF 9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OF POLICYACTIONS
operation of the system (Circular 23-1
[12/2/97]).
*  Administration of individual accounts still in
the Central Account:
*  rules relating to the outsourcing of
information to workers in the Cuenta
Concentradora (Circular 27-1 [2/20/98]);
*  the AFORE maquiladora will charge a fee
of 1.15% of flows (Circular 29-1
[2/27/98]).
Authorization                                                        *  CONSAR authorized 17 AFOREs in a timely       *  Continued satisfactory implementation
process                                                                 fashion, ensuring that foreign-owned AFOREs       andfine-tuning of the reformed system
receive equal treatment with Mexican-owned
AFOREs
Affiliation process                                                  *  CONSAR issued the general rules governing the
affiliation contract between the worker and
his/her chosen AFORE (Circular 11-1 [2/18/97])
*  Affiliated approximately 60% of potential IMSS
workers to chosen AFORE during the first year
of operation of the system (as of 2/28/98 over
98% of potential IMSS' workers have
affiliated).
Switching rules                                                      *  CONSAR issued Circulares 24-1 (12/10/97)
and 28-1 (1/8/98) regulating the switching of
workers' accounts among AFOREs



ANNEX II (PAGE 3 OF 9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OF POLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are not included in the legal agreements, but represent an indication of the medium-term framework)
Ensure the smooth   *  Legal and regulatory framework established for  *  Regulatory framework. CONSAR has issued    .  Continued satisfactory implementation
and efficient           CONSAR, IMSS and INFONAVIT to use one       the following Circulares regulating the        andfine-tuning of the reformed system
operation of the       number (that of IMSS) to unify past SAR       functioning of the collection and record-keeping  a
collection and record-  accounts and SIEFORE accounts               system: 7-1 (1/9/97); 16-1(6/30/97); 20-1
keeping process     *  CONSAR developed and issued rules for        (11/11/97); 22-1 (12/10/97); 20-2 (3/2/98)
identification of accounts and account transfers  *  Unique identification number. Generated the
to eliminate multiple accounts for individual  unique identification number called Clave Unica
contributors                                 de Registro de Poblaci6n (CURP) for at least
25% of potential affiliates by December 1997
l  Agreement signed between CONSAR/SHCP         (as of 2/28/98 over 4 million CURPs -
and IMSS on an action plan to improve the    equivalent to approximately 34% of accounts -
efficiency of the IMSS to ensure overall     had been generated).
implementation of the new operational scheme                                                                                  l
l  . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(i  *  Computerized collection system. A computerI
including: (i) updating IMSS database, and (n)  (diskette-based) software - the Unique
strengthening the individualization of accounts  Autodetermination System (SUA - Sistema
Unico de Autodeterminaci6n) was developed
and agreed upon on 5/27/98. All employers with
more than four employees are using it.
*  Cost cutting. CONSAR has issued regulations
on the maximum fees to be charged by
PROCESAR for processing, reconciling, and
dispersing information the administration on
individual accounts. The maximum
administration charge is P$10.80 per account
per year (Circular 14-1 [6/27/97])



ANNEX H (PAGE 4 OF 9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Identify opportunities                                                     CONSAR finalized a study in October 1997          Design and implement measures to
for cost-cutting to                                                        comparing commissions charged by AFOREs in        contain the administrative costs of the
lower administration                                                       a standardized foal at. 2 e study simulates       system
costs and to increase                                                      eventual commissions paid and benefits received
amount of funds                                                            under the different AFORES commission
available to pay                                                           structures.
benefits to retirees
Transfer of s             Adopted transfer arrangements for accumulated t  CONSAR (Circular 24-1 [12/10/97]); SHCP
retirement sub-           SAR balances (5/1992-96) from Central Bank       (Of cio No.305 [12/10/97]) and Banco de
accounts from            to AFOREs ot er a period of four years            Mexico have issued detailed processes
Central Bank to                                                            establishing the means to authorize transfers and
private investment                                                         to ensure that contributors are inforned about
managers.                                                                  the transfer
*Transferred at least 20% of SAR92 total
accumulated assets from the Central Bank to
individual worker AFORE accounts by end-
April 1998 (as of April 8, 1998 total assets
transferred - P$10,781 billion - represented over
30% of SAR92 total accumulated assets)
Investment Policies.  *   On April 26, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas de    a  CONSAR issued modifications to initial       *Introduce grater portfolio
Establish and             Ahorro para el Retiro was enacted, including     guidelines to address problems that arose as       diversification, including investment in
implement a sound         inter alia general principles related to the     system became operational (Circular 15-2,          equities
and flexible             investment management regime.                     29/10/97):
regulatory system for  *   Investment Regime issued by CON4SAR on          *Investmnents in Inflation-inde-xed bonds.
the investment of         6/29/97                                              Waiver granted until end 1997 on earlier
pension funds.                                                                 requirement that at least 5 1 % of the 



ANNEX II (PAGE5 0F9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OF POLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are not included in the legal agreements, but represent an indication of thle medium-term framework)
ijkTWOROTTFy~XRT
SIEFORE investments be made in inflation
Investment Policies                                                       indexed instruments
(continued)                                                         *  Cash holdings. Initially SIEFOREs not
allowed to hold any cash balances.
SIEFOREs are now allowed to hold up to
P$250,000 in cash balances.
l  Repurchase Agreements. Requirement that
SIEFOREs hold no cash also implied that
all money received through contributions
had to be invested immediately. This
requirement significantly constrained
investment plans of the AFOREs. CONSAR
issued regulations allowing SIEFOREs to
invest in repurchase agreements or repos.
* Asset Valuation. CONSAR earlier issued
guidelines that valuation of asset holdings
of the SIEFOREs should be done on a daily
basis using a vector of prices published by
the Mexican Stock Exchange. Prices were
sometimes erroneous (and amended later by
the Sock Exchange on the following day) or
not available. Regulations issued to clarify
that SIEFOREs were authorized to use most
recent and accurate price vector available
*  Others. CONSAR has clarified earlier
investment regulations so that limits on
various investments should be adhered to at
the time of investment



ANNEXII (PAGE6OF9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
Risk Management:                                                    *Initiated operation of two committees - thel
Ensure sustainability                                                   Comite de Analisis de Riesgos (the Riskl
of system by getting                                                    Analysis Committee) and the Comite de
a measure of, and                                                       Valuaci6n (The Valuation Committee) to
requiring the                                                           oversee CONSAR' s operations in the risk
AFOREs to manage                                                        management area
the risks to which the
investors' funds are
exposed
Strengthen CONSAR   *On April 26, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas de    *  CONSAR has developed customized systems     *Strengthen CONSAR 's independence
to ensure effective      Ahorro para el Retiro was enacted, including   software that feeds data on affiliation, the status
supervision of           inter alia: (i) establishment of improved      of retirement accounts, SIEFORE investment
AFOREs and               supervision scheme for CONSAR;                 activity, and the eligibility of acquired
SIEFOREs.                strengthening of its enforcement powers; and   instruments to the department's analysts on a
(ii) strengthening of CONSAR's govemance       daily basis. Financial data on SIEFORE
through a reexamination of the Board's        investment regulated by Circular 21-1
composition.                                   [11/11/971. Also establishes methodology for
*  Finalized draft regulations by CONSAR          valuation of eligible investment instruments.
relating to surveillance and inspection    *  CONSAR to submit a report to Congress every
procedures.                                    six months on the operation of the new system
*  Agreed upon and initiated implementation of a  (report presented in February 1998 covered the
time-bound business program to strengthen      July-December, 1997 period). First bimonthly
CONSAR's supervisory capacity.                statistical bulletin to be published by June 1998.



ANNEX 11 (PA GE 7 OF 9)
CSDPII: MATRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are not included in the legal agreements, but represent an indication of the medium-term framework)
d~~~~~~~~%94                                                                                               T4ROIS  6 M,mt,s,,s .'''..''' -  eE1=H
Strengthen regulation  *  On April 26, 1996 the Ley General de     *  On January 3, 1997 the Insurance Law (Ley    *  Implement measures to reduce the cost
and supervision by      Instituciones y Sociedades Mutualistas de      General de Instituciones y Sociedades           of the disability and life insurance
the Insurance           Seguros was enacted laying the framework for   Mutualistas de Seguros) was modified to         scheme
Superintendency         the development and supervision of the        incorporate changes to the provision of IV
(CNSF)                  annuities market                               benefits under the reformed Social Security Law
and make operational the provision of such
benefits by private insurance companies
*  CNSF issued a number of regulations to make
operational the new scheme including: (i)
operational rules (Circular S-22.1, 2/13/97); (ii)
contractual documentation (Circular S-22.4,
3/31/97); (iii) format to be used by the insurance
companies in making their offer to the worker
(Circular S-22.10, 6/13/97); (iv) rules on
additional benefits which private insurance
companies can provide to the worker (Circular
S-22.3.2, 11/13/97); and (v) marketing rules
(Circular S-22.1.3, 1/8/98).
*  On March 5, 1998 a Department in charge of
supervision of pension-related insurance
(Direcci6n General de Supervisi6n del Seguro
de Pensiones) was established within CNSF
Update periodically,   *  Completed sensitivity analysis and satisfactory   *  The Government has completed the 1997 update  *  Continue yearly updating offzscal costs
and ensure the          evaluation of actuarial methodologies and data  to the sensitivity analysis of the fiscal costs of  model and sensitivity analysis
transparency of the     base                                           transition and the evaluation of actuarial 
fiscal cost of reformns.                                               methodologies and the database 



ANNEX H (PAGE 8 OF 9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OFPOLICYACTIONS
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Minimize the fiscal    Several measures were introduced to improve       INFONAVIT, SHCP and CNBV  signed an             Demonstrate clear results in complying
cost of pension      INFONAVIT's financial performance. They             agreement on 3/27/98 [the Convenio], approved    with INFONA VIT reform targets, as  l
reform  and ensure    included:                                          by INFONAVIT's Board of Govemors on             specified in the Convenio
workers an adequate   *  A strengthened supervisory role for the         3130/98, to restore INFONAVIT to financiall
pension by assuring      National Banking and Securities Commission      health within a 5-year period through a majorl
that funds invested in  (CNBV).                                          operational and financial restructuring programl
INFONAVIT achieve  *  A stock taking of INFONAVIT's portfolio by    *  INFONAVIT has accepted new accounting
market rates of          external international auditors. CNBV           standards to be issued by CNBV which are
return, and the          commissioned an external audit and portfolio    consistent with rules applicable to commercial
interest revenues are   review of INFONAVIT (KPMG was the                banks for mortgage loans
credited to workers'    selected auditor). Audit completed in March  *  INFONAVIT has stopped accruing, and created
pension accounts         1998.                                           provisions against, interest and indexation of
*  Disclosure according to Law to the general      non performing loans
public as well as contributors in their individual  *  INFONAVIT has provisioned for its non-
account statements of the rate of return on    performing loans as required by CNBV and
pension accounts, including the AFORES and     based on the findings of the external auditing
INFONAVIT.                                     fimn and CNBV's inspections.
*  Changes in the INFONAVIT law (Article 43                                              11i
bis). The revised 1997 law allows
INFONAVIT to undertake "virtual"               Establshment of an apropriate system ofl
cofinancing arrangements for mortgages          estalinancapprolsibe system 9Of
through commercial banks and other financial    external financial controls beginning in 1999
ithroughiommercial banks and other financial   *  Submission of revised table of maximum credit
institutions.                                 amounts agreed with CNBV and approved by
INFONAVIT's Board of Governors
*  Review of credit rules and loan rationing
mechanism, and if necessary, submission of
revised rules to INFONAVIT's Board of
Governors



ANNEXII (PAGE 9 oF9)
CSDP II: MATRIX OF POLICYACTIONS
(Actions in italics are not included in the legal agreements, but represent an indication of the medium-term framework)
Advance in the                                                     *  ISSSTE                                        *  Ensure the financial viability of
diagnostic and                                                       *  Finalized actuarial and financial diagnostic by  pension schemes for public sector
strategic preparatory                                                   an internationally recognized actuarial firm    workers
work for future                                                      *  Government has initiated the detailed
reforms to schemes                                                      evaluation of the feasibility and the fiscal
covering public                                                         transition costs of alternative refortn strategies
sector workers                                                     *  States (32 pension schemes):
* In early 1997, the Government completed an
initial survey of the available databases and the
actuarial and financial situation of the 32 public
pension schemes at the State level.
*  During the first week of March 1998, SHCP
approved a standardized format for the actuarial
and   financial  valuation   (Proyecciones
Demogrdficas y Financieras). These valuation
guidelines were designed through a joint effort
of 7 actuarial frins.



Annex III
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
TECHNICAL ANNEX
CONTENTS
no.    table/figure
Al.    Mexico - Comparison of Current and Reformed Old Age Security Systems
A2.    Comparison of Reformed Pension Systems in Latin America
A3.    AFORE Structure
A4a.   Profiles of the Fund Managers
A4b.  IMSS Workers, by Number of Minimum Salaries
A5a.   Commission Structure and Other Fees Levied
A5b.   Schedule of Declining Commission Rates
A6a.   AFOREs Total Expenses and Agents at Start-Up
A6b.   AFOREs Promotion & Publicity Expenses by Type at Start-Up
A7a.   AFORE Operating Costs, by Category, to year-end 1997
A7b.   AFOREs Total Expenses and Agents, to February 1998
A8.    Monthly Cumulative Affiliation of Formal Sector Workers into New Pension System
A9.    Present Ranking of AFOREs
AIO.   Centralized Collection System
Alla. Total Portfolio and Investment Allocation and Return, by Fund Manager
Allb.  Monthly Annualized Rates of Return of Each SIEFORE
A12.   Number of CURPs Generated, by AFORE
A13.   Chronology of Regulations by CONSAR
A14.   Organizational Structure of CONSAR
A15.   CONSAR's Required Reports
A16a. Individual Statement of AFORE/INFONAVIT Account
A16b. Key Features and Content of Individual Statement of Account
A17a. Switching Between AFOREs: Through an Agent
A17b. Switching Between AFOREs: Automatically AFORE to AFORE
A18.   Transfer of SAR'92 Funds from Banks to AFOREs



Table Al. Mexico - Comparison of PAYG and Reformed Old Age Security Systems
Area                        Old IV CNM System                           New (RC\ + I\') System
OldAge and Severance (RCV)    IMSS                                      * Contributions to chosen pension fund administrator
(AFORE)
* Benefits provided by AFORES if new system, or IMSS
if old PAYG system chosen at retirement (Transition
generation only)
Disability and Life Insurance  IMSS                                     IMSS
15.5                                 16.0- 21.0 (average 17.5)
Old age and severance (RCV)                     11.0                     12.0-17.0 (=11.5 + socill/ q(/otal): 13.5 (l \erna.'e wodlwr
Disability and life (I')                        4.5                                             4 8
Detailed breakdown:           IVCM (to IMSS):                   8.5     RCV Individual  4ccounts:
Old age and severance       3.0       to    IndividualAciountst
Disability and death        3.0       to AFORES:                    6.5an+Social Quots
Reserves for pensioners' health 1.5     Old ace and severance       4(.5
Administration expenses     0.6         Retirinctnt sub-acCOunt 2)  ' '     I
-Social quota (per, dinav    5.5`o oC   \
Social Assistance           0.4       to INFONAV IT:                5.0
SAR-Retirement (to Central Bank): 2.0    IV to IMNSS:                 4.0
SAR Housing (to INFONAVIT):    5.0         Disability and litfe        __
Reserves for pensioners hlacltfl  1 5
OldAge                        500 weeks (10 years) and 65 years old     1,250 weeks (25 years) and 65 years old
Severance                      500 weeks and 60 years old               1,250 weeks and 60 years old
Disability                     150 weeks, inability to earn 50% of salary  250 weeks
Life Insurance                 150 weeks                                250 weeks
Old Age: Amount ofpension     (i) benefits accrued under PAYG system    New workers: accumulated balances in individual
(a % of the average wage of last 5 years in    accounts (AFORES + INFONAVIT) since 9/1/1997;
nominal terms plus a fraction for each year in  Transition workers: at retirement choose highest
excess of 10, with a maximum of the above    between: (i) current benefits (see previous column) and (ii)
mentioned average wage; indexed to changes  accumulated balances in individual accounts (AFORES +
in minimum wage). +                      INFONAVIT) since 9/1/1997 + retirement sub-account
(ii) accumulated INFONAVIT contributions   accumulated balances 5/92-8/97 (if still in Central Bank)
(iii) retirement sub-account 5/92-8/97
OldAge: Withdrawals d                                                   *   Gradual withdrawals from individual account in the
AFORE, 'or
*   Annuity bought from an insurance company
Disability Insurance: Amount    Depends on degree of disability. Provided  *   Degree of disability still determined by IMSS.
ofpension                     by IMSS: a % of the average wage of last 5    *   Pension provided by private insurance companies:
years in nominal terms plus a fraction for   35% of average wage (in real terms) for the last 500
each year in excess of 10, with a maximum    weeks of contributions
of the above mentioned average wage.
Life Insurance: Amount of     Widow: 90% of disability pension;
pension                        Dependents: 20% of disability pension, or
30% if both parents deceased             Same as before
Minimum Pension Guarantee    Equivalent to one Mexico City minimum      Equivalent to one Mexico City minimum wage on 7/1//97
I (MfPG)                   = J wage level indexed to actual minimum wage   indexed to the CPI f
a. Under IVCM contributions could not exceed 10 times the minimum wage and under the new system it is 25 times.
b. Plus the accumulated balances in the retirement sub-account (from 1993 to 8/1997) if the worker so wishes.
c. Government contribution of 5.5% of one minimum wage (MW) - in July 1997 - per day is indexed to the consumer price level. On average,
this quota will be equivalent to 2.0 % of wages (considering that the average wage is approximately 2.6 times the minimum wage).
d. Lump withdrawal at retirement permitted only for balances in excess of 130 % of the cost of an annuity equal to the MPG.
e. Gradual withdrawals will consider insurance to cover probability that they live longer than expected and outlast savings.
f. Currently average wage for IMSS affiliates is 2.6 minimum wages, thus MPG is approximately 38 % of average wage.



Nature of the reform          Public defined       Public PAYG          Public split into    Public PAYG        Public PAYG changed      Public PAYG,         Public PAYG
benefit (PAYG)      changed to choice    public PAYG and      changed to choice     to private defined    changed to private     restructured,
changed to private   between public PAYG   private defined      between public    contribution (for private   defined contribution  alongside a new
defined contribution    and private defined  contribution      PAYG and private    sector workers only)       (all workers)       private defined
(all workers)       contribution                           defined contribution                                                contribution
(private-sector
workers under 40)
Transition arrangements:
What happens to old system?     Phased out         Continues with       Continues with       Continues with         Eliminated'           Eliminatedk         Continues with
changes              changes              changes                                                         changes
Is current labor force allowed
to remain in old scheme?           No                  Yes                   Yes                  Yes                  Noe                    Not                 No'
Is new system mandatory for
new labor force entrants?          Yes                  No                   No                   No                   Yes                    Yes                 Yes
for under 40s
Can workers switch back to
public system?                     No                   No                   No             Yes, every three           No*                    No             Public & Private
(after June 1996)                             years.                                                        run parallel
Recognition bonds                  Yes                 Yesd                  Yes'                Yes'                  No'                   Nom                   No
Profile of new pension scheme:  Minimum Pension        MPG'            Flat and minimum          MPG                   MPG                  No MPG            MPG, qualified
What role for public pillar?  Guarantee (MPG)     Social Assistance        pension          Social Assistance       Social Quota        Bonosol Annuity'    with earned-income
Social Assistance                                                                   Social Assistance                               ceiling
Total contribution rate for
new system...
=   for old age annuity             10           Private: 8 (10 on 1/97)      8                   10           6.5 + 5.0 +(l.5.5)h           14.50                27.5'
.>  disability.survivors/adm                Public: tI (max 13)
disability/survivors/adm      3                   0.3                   3                   3.5                  4.0                  2.0 + 2.0P         with earned
>   public pillar and social                                                                                                                                  income-based
assistance              General Revenues           l                    169                   I            General Revenues          Revenue from          ceilings on
Privatization Program  contributions
Total contribution rate...
z>  before reformn                 19                    9                    27             8 (private sec.)         15.5                    8.5q               27.5
>   after reform                  13                   13.3                  27              13.5-14.5'           16.5 -21.0                 14.5               27.5



Table A2. Comparison of Reformed Pension Systems in Latin America
CommIss;on stacture         Jfed a1tliough     fted: on a-cset< on  variable on asseLts    variable: on       freely set & fixed   Ifixed: on assets, on   fixed on assets, on
variable on     contributions, or both,   on contributions, or   contributions only,  annually: on    contributions, or  contributions, or
contributions, on    with discounts     both, no discounts    any discount     contributions, on assets,   both, no discounts   both, with discounts
combination, no                                               uniform to all   or both, with discounts
discounts                                                    affiliates
Comparative commission, as
%of coveragepay                 2.29%                2.29%                2.41%               N/A.                 1.91%                 N/A.                2.07%
(assumes one-time frontload)
Estimated implicit PAYG      126% (in 1980)           37%                                     61.6%            141.5% (in 1994)          40%                 300%
debt at time of reform, as %  (through 2030)    (termination liability)   N/A.            (through 2025)       (through 2069)
of GDP
Minimum rates of return of    Benchmark relative                    Benchmark relative   Benchmark relative                                            Benchmark relative
private pension funds       to market average        None            to market average   to synthetic portfolio    None                  None          to market average
Government guarantees on   Difference between   (Difference between                     Difference between    Difference between   Bonosol annuity of    Public pension
rates of return of private     balances at     balances at retirement     None              balances at      balances at retirement  US$248 annually    calculated on salary
pension funds                retirement and        and MPG)'                            retirement and MPG        and MPG                               level, up to ceiling
MPG                                                                                                                    of 5,000/monthu
Maximum percentage of
portfolio allowed in....
=    Domestic equities            30                   35                  50                 30                   0                       50-90r               GI
Foreign securities           10                   5                    10                15                   0                       10-50                0
>   Gov't securities              45                  40                   50                 50                100 (in 1997)       up to US$180/year     b/w 75 - 100
(in 1994)
Affiliates in the reformed
system in 1997...
>   Total Affiliates           5,000,000            1,400,000            5,400,000           1,800,000           11,300,000             328,884             383,000
% of EAP (EAP taken         34.5%                5.8%                37.6%                13.3%                12.3%                 9.8%               26.9%
from ILO '97 & CEPAL
'96)
Assets under management...
>   December 1997            US$30 billion            N/A              US$8.8 billion          N/A             US$773 million        US$84.7 million     US$129 million
Sources: World Bank, 1994 (page 227); Grandolini and Cerda, 1998 (page 21); and World Bank staff.



Notes:
a. Contributions to the old system cease on August 31, 1997. Transition workers can choose at retirement the higher of the benefits available under the old PAYG scheme or the new defined
contribution plan.
b. "Compensatory pension" is paid upon retirement, not as a bond. The value is based on years of contribution and last ten years' eamings.
c. Workers with fewer than 150 weeks of contributions are not eligible for a recognition bond.
d. Only workers who have contributed for at least 48 months in the last 10 years and have at least 6 months prior to entering the new system.
e. Disclosure of expected current and future fiscal costs would be made on an annual basis.
L MPG introduced with second round of reforms in 1995, but regulations have not yet been issued.
g. This is paid by the employer.
h. Social Quota indexed to the CPI and estimated between I and 5.5 percent depending on worker's income and on average equivalent to 2.2 % of wages.
i. The rate shown is for both private and public sector and for 1996 and following years. Contribution rate increased gradually during 1994-96.
j. Different methodologies used. Source for Colombia and Chile is Schmidt-Hebbel, 1995 (page 58); for Peru is Kane and Palacios, 1996 (page 38).
Sources: World Bank, 1994 (page 277); Diaz Ortega, 1996; and World Bank intemal documents.
k. Current pensioners continue to receive benefits from the National Treasury as defined under the old system
1. Except those workers eligible for retirement under the rules of the old system by April 30, 1997. The AFPs began operating on May 1, 1997.
m. Affiliates who have contributed to the old system will receive compensatory pensions, paid monthly upon retirement, and calculated for those having contributed at least 5 years according to an
actuarial formula, von Gersdorf 1997 p. 9.
n. Law 1732 does not provide for a govemment guaranteed minimum pension. However, revenue from Bolivia's privatization (capitalization) of state enterprises is managed by the new system's AFPs
and has been earmarked for the 'Bonool" program ,by which every citizen over 65 is eligible to receive an annuity of US$248 in addition to the required annuity of at least 70% of the minimum wage,
from their accumulated pension assets. Citizens will continue to receive the Bonosol annuity after the savings in the individual accounts have run out.
o. An additional 13% of wages are withheld: 10% contribution for health insurance, and 3% contribution to the housing fund.
p. Of the 12.5% of workers wages withheld by the employer, 2.0% is an insurance premium covering physical impairment or death from common causes, 0.5% pays for the AFP services, and
employers contribute an additional premium of 2.0% for work-related injury or death.
q. Before the reform, most formal sector workers in Bolivia, private and public, belonged to practically obligatory employer-arranged plans, complementary to the PAYG plan. Contribution rates
under these plans varied from 3.5% to 12%.
r. Pension law specifies that the maximum limit on investment in foreign securities will be no less than 10% and no more than 50%, and only in instruments traded on the NYSE and the LSE. For the
first 15 years of the system, the AFPs are required to invest up to US$180/year in treasury bonds, to help finance the fiscal costs of transition.
s. Only those eligible for retirement at the end of 1996 will continue to receive benefits according to the old PAYG actuarial formula, paid out by the Banco de Previsi6n Social. A transition PAYG
system is set up to ease shift to the new two-pillar, PAYG/Capitalized system. See President's Report No. P7190-UR, for details.
t. At the present stage of the reform process in Uruguay, the total contribution rate to the pension system remains at 27.5%, however, employee/employer share of contribution has changed, and earned-
income ceilings have been put in place, based on May 1995 pesos. For details on the reformed contribution structure, see Table 1. I in Annex II of PR No. P7 190-UR.
u. The salary on which the public pension is calculated, under the new system, will be subject to a ceiling of 5,000 pesos/month (May 1995 pesos). The formula for calculating the public pension is
500/o of the average salary of the last 10 years.
v. Domestic equity is allowed for AFAP investment in Uruguay, but because of political difficulties in privatizing parastatals, equity instruments are scarce and capital markets are thin. AFAPs are
barred from investment in foreign equity.



Table A3. AFORE Structure
IAFORE               Partners [                                                                                           1    Capitalization      % |  National  % Foreign   Date
_I  I                                         I Authorized   Paid                             Incorporated
ATLANTICO            GBM (50%), Valores Finamex (50%)                                                                         100        188.3      100.00       0.00      21-Feb-97
BANAMEX              Grupo Financiero Banamex (99.99%), Accival (0.01%)                                                       500        771.3      100.00       0.00      27-Jan-97
BANCOMER             Grupo Financiero Bancomer (51%), Aetna Intemational-AFP (33%, US), Santa Maria Intemational (16%, CH)   949.2      2,276.5      51.00      49.00      27-Jan-97
BANCRECER            Bancrecer (51%), Dresdner Pension Fund Holdings (44%), Allianz Mexico (5%)                              4,025       716.3       56.00      44.00      27-Jan-97
BANORTE              Banorte (511%), Belgica Insurance Holdings (24.5%, BE), Maatschappij Graafschap Holland N.V. (24.5%, HO)  275       707.3       51.00      49.00      27-Jan-97
BITAL                Bital (51 %), ING America Insurance Holding (49%, US)                                                    500        774.4       51.00      49.00      27-Jan-97
CAPITALIZA           GE Capital de Mexico (0.00001%), GE Capital Assurance Co.(99.99999%/o, US)                               425        229.3       0.00       100.00     24-Feb-97
CONFIA-PRINCIPAL  Banca Confia (51%), Principal Intemational (49%, US)                                                       248.7       319.4       51.00      49.00      26-Feb-97
GARANTE              Banca Serfin (51%), Citibank Mexico (40%, ME), AFP Habitat (9%, CH)                                      1,060     1,479.0      91.00       9.00      27-Jan-97
GENESIS              Seguros Genesis (0.01%), Metropolitan Life Insurance (99.99%, US)                                      1,000,100    557.4       0.01       99.99      27-Jan-97
INBURSA              Banco Inbursa (99.995%/o), Cia. de Servicios Inbursa (0.005%)                                            500        519.0      100.00       0.00      27-Jan-97
PREVINTER            Bank of Boston (90%), Bank of Nova Scotia (10%)                                                         968.5      1,045.3      0.00       100.00     27-Jan-97
PROFUTURO GNP    Grupo Nacional Provincial (51 %), Banco Bilbao Vizcaya (25%, SP), Provida Intemacional (24%, CH)             1,025     1,758.3      76.00      24.00      27-Jan-97
SANTANDER            Banco Santander Mexicano (75%), Santander Investments (25%,SP)                                           875       1,677.9      0.00       100.00     27-Jan-97
TEPEYAC              Seguros Tepeyac (66.02%), MAPFRE Intemational (33.98%, SP)                                               555        297.9       66.02      33.98      27-Jan-97
X)I                  IMSS (50%), IXE Grupo Financiero (50%)                                                                   175        397.0      100.00       0.00      26-Feb-97
URICH              Zurich Vida Compania de Seguros (80%, SW), Gabriel Monterrubio (10%), Private Investors (10%)            117.8       175.8      100.00       0.00      18-Feb-97
Source: CONSAR, February 28, 1998
[a] partner listed first is either a Mexican company or the Mexican subsidiary of an intemational parent corporation
This partner is entitled to a 51% stake in the venture. Foreign partners nationality indicated: US: United States, CH: Chile, SP: Spain, Belgium: BE, Holland: HO
[bJ figures in millions of pesos



Market
Share of
Portion of
IMSS imMarket Share of                                                                     Market Share of
Market Share Market Share  Workers  Salary    Contributions    Pesos Under   Pesos Under Number of Active   Percentage    Active Affiliates
AFORE          Total Affiliates (al of Affiliated  Goal   [b]   Profile 'cl   Received Id]   Management [l  Management   Affiliates Ilf   Affiliates Active  Ila
(%)         (°/0)      (%)                                                (%)                           (%/o)          (%)
Atlantico               181,212    1.5         3.0         1.5     2.8             77.64         236.75      1.7             118,106      67.6                  1.6
Banamex               1,397,784    12.0        17.0       11.9      3.6           1112.96       1,578.79     11.5           1,136,304      83.0                15.7
Bancomer              1,898,134    16.2        17.0       16.2      4.1           1363.84       5,025.08     36.5           1,599,163      85.3                22.0
Bancrecer               554,125    4.7         4.8        4.7       2.7            253.89        440.81      3.2             350,639       67.2                4.8
Banorte                 898,435    7.7         7.7        7.7       2.6            279.45        449.48      3.3             411,834       54.4                 5.7
Bital                 1,076,974    9.2         10.0       9.2       2.9            470.82        805.00      5.8             679,303      66.0                 9.4
Capitaliza              34,299    0.3          4.9        0.3       5.2              9.99         62.70      0.5              14,105      60.0                 0.2
Confia                  75,141     0.6         4.8        0.6       3.1             39.18        109.75      0.8              48,090      70.9                 0.7
Garante               1,285,235    11.0        10.0       10.9      2.9            443.28        698.92      5.1             721,830      58.9                 9.9
Genesis                 127,349    1.1         2.0         1.1      2.5             34.33        102.21      0.7              64,990      54.9                 0.9
Inbursa                 301,413    2.6         1.5        2.6       8.2            598.31       1,870.81     13.6            262,982      89.3                 3.6
Previnter               277,200    2.4         n/a        2.4       3.8            166.01        274.23      2.0                 n/a       n/a                  n/a
ProfuturoGNP          1,456,406    12.5        15.0       12.4      2.3            331.20        716.46      5.2             686,745      48.9                 9.5
Santander             1,687,617    14.4        15.0       14.4      2.5            428.44        785.70      5.7             864,582      52.4                11.9
Tepeyac                 96,751    0.8          1.5        0.8       2.6            23.41          90.29      0.7              67,880      71.5                 0.9
SigloXXI                322,342    2.8         17.0       2.7       5.0            292.36        428.26      3.1             212,919      70.2                 2.9
Zurich                  21,366    0.2          2.7        0.2       3.9             16.39         85.95      0.6              17,062      84.8                 0.2
Total             11,691,783.00    100                      99.6                  5941.50      13,761.20    100.0        7,256,534.00
Source: CONSAR, AMAFORE
[a] as of February 28, 1998
[b] formal sector workers covered under the old IMSS system number 11,743,455
[c] taken as average number of minimum salaries per affiliate: see table 3b. "Distribution of Minimum Salaries Among IMSS Workers", 12/97
[d] in millions of pesos
[el in millions of pesos
[f] Data on active/inactive workers, from November '97, pending update from CONSAR
[g] percentages calculated not including Previnter's active affiliates



Table A4b. Distribution of INISS
Workers, by Number of Nlinimum
Salaries, 1996
Number of |
Minimum     Number of     Portion of
Salaries    Workers    Workforce (%/.)
1          2,166,725     19.85
2          4,561,215     41.78
3           1,432,862    13.13
4            834,014     7.64
5            497,308     4.56
6            326,829     2.99
7            223,243     2.05
8            151,289     1.39
9            114,553     1.05
10            91,301      0.84
11            80,925      0.74
12            72,429      0.66
13            53,055      0.49
14            39,300      0.36
15            31,816      0.29
16            27,429      0.25
17            23,375      0.21
18            18,110      0.17
19            16,081      0.15
20             12,810     0.12
21            12,865      0.12
22             9,476      0.09
23             12,292     0.11
24             7,871      0.07
25            99,317      0.91
Total          10,916,490     100.00
Source: IMSS, 1996



|AFORE                  | For Fund Management                                      For Other Services
Payment of      On      Withdrawal of On Assets in
% on   % on Real Additional  Document       Planned     Voluntary    Voluntary    Innactive
% on Pay  Assets    RoR    Statement    Reissue       Retirement  Savings (%)    Savings   Accounts (%'
AT_LANTICO                 1.40       -      20.00                                            20.00          -          20.00
BANAMEX [ac]               1.70       -                          .         _                           l             _  __
___I-1----                         L     -             -                         - 
BANCOMER c'                1.70   __l__
_~~~~~~~~ -  _ ___    ____                   .-
BANCRECER [l]           l  1.60                        10 0UDIs    1 UDIs                              .
BANORTE  1                 1.00      1.50           -                                          1.5                        1.50
BITAL ].68                            -   i               -                                    1
I--    _____                      -       _      _    __                 _       __
CAPITALIZA                 1.60                                 l -
___          _   .~~~_____  ___      __        ______             _-                       _____L.00
CONFIA-PPINCIPAL [c'    0.90         1.00                       I|                             1.00    1|                1.00
__ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ -        .___     __ __        __    l_ _          -    t----            j----    - _  _I I0
GARANTE                    1.68       -   I           7  U         7  U
___________        1.6             -___                             I      -          _   __       __      s    _    _
GNSIS                   1.65       -                7.5 UDIs l7.5 UDIsl          -      i     -     i     -             -
_                        l~~~~ ~~               ~    ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~--  - ________  __________ __-    -t----- _---    l 
INBURSA                     -         -      33.00    $10.00       $10.00          -      i   33.00        __-_         33.00
PREVINTER                  1.55                -          -    [      -      l       
PROFUTURO GNP              1.70     0.50                                                        .50        $5.00         0.50
_ I I ~~~~___             _    I    4          I                         ___ __ ___    __ __ __                    ___ _
SANTANDER-MEXICO  l  1.70            1.00         -             L            j            1   1.00-  __                  1.00
TEPEYAC                    1.17      1.00      -        $3.00       $3.00                      1.00     _          t     1.00
XXI _                      1.50  i  0.99       -                j                  -          0.99                  t    0.99
_______    ___  ______-1 ------                               I__I___                 ...- -I              __   +_._._.-
ZURICH [c'                 0.95   1  1.25                                __ ___-  _ | $7.00-$10.00 |   1.25  $50.00      1.25
Source: CONSAR, February 28, 1998
[a] BANAMEX will charge 0.2% on the first two flows in 1997. On the last flow of contributions it will charge 0.85%,
and as of March 1998, this will rise to 1.70%
[b] "$" indicates Mexican Pesos
[c] AFORE gives commission discounts for affiliate fidelity
[d] AFORE gives commission discounts for voluntary savings



Table A5b. Schedule of Declining Commission Rates
BANORTE                                 ZURICH
Year             % Charged             Year              % Charged
first                      1.50             1997 - 1999            1.25
second                     1.42             2000 - 2002            1.00
third                      1.33             2003 - 2005            0.90
fourth                     1.25                2006                0.80
fifth                      1.17                2007                0.50
sixth                      1.08                2008                0.40
seventh                    1.00                2009                0.30
eighth                     0.92                2010                0.20
ninth                      0.83            2011 Onward             0.10
tenth Onward               0.75
Source: CONSAR, February 28, 1998



(000 Pesos) [] (000 Pesos) [C      ($)d
(to 9/97)      (to 11/97)       (to 9/97)         Startup         Startup          Startup
AFORE            No. Agents[a]   No. Affiliates[b]    Affil/Agent    Costs         Costs/Affil.    Costs/Affiliate
Atlantico                1,99 1         158,146              79           34,880             221               2
Banamex          _       5,819        1,354,504             233          220,352             163               20
Bancomer                 8,339        1,870,677             224          970,276             519               65
Bancrecer                7,890          486,513              62          202,070      _      4155
Banorte_        _        3,848          652,428             170          110,521             169               21
Bital                    7,480          970,326             130          238,625             246               31
Capitaliza                 433           16,048              37           43,448           2,707              338
Confia                    1,084          63,128              58           63,529            1,006             126
Garante       _10,374                 1,151,129             111          428,414             372               47
Genesis                  2,866          109,134              38          131,413            1,204             151
Inbursa                  3,714          284,717              77           32,032             113 ___           14
Previnter                4,680          246,937              53          384,582            1,557             195
Profuturo GNP            5,549        1,367,780             246          522,645             382               48
Santander               12,621        1,610,919             128          669,388             416               52
Tepeyac                  3,494           92,516              26           64,707 _699   __                     87
Siglo XXI                2,299          277,901  _          121           93,759   ____ 337   _                42
Zurich                      42          19,572             466           20,254   __       1,035             129
Total   _____           82,523       10,732,375                        4,230,895         ___           _
Average        _____ __   4,854    _130                                                      680               85
Source:[aJ CONSAR document, September 1997
[b] PROCESAR document, December 1997
[c] AMAFORES document, August 1997
[d] (Previous column)/8 pesos per $1US



Table A6b. AFORES Promotion & Publicity Expenses bv Type at Start-Up
% of Budget Allocated to                       (000 Pesos)
AFORE                 TV Ads  J   Radio Ads        Press Ads       Magazine        Total Adv. Budget
Atlantico              79.4           18.3           2.3               0                       41,153
Banamex   ______       84.3           11.6           3.3              0.8                     253,023
Bancomer               92.2           4.2            3.3              0.4                     281,284
Bancrecer              26.1           65.8            8                0                        50,041
Banorte/Solida         87.6           4.7             7.7              0                        68,133
Bital                  85.4           11.2           2.1               0                       167,993
Capitaliza             39.9            0             60.1              0                         8,661
lConfia    ___78.4                    11.7            8.8              0                        18,202
Garante                87.2           9.7             3                0                       345,827
Genesis                76.1           17.2            6.2             0.1                      21,016
Inbursa                94.3           2.8             1.2             1.7                       86,694
Previnter               94            4.1             1.9              0                       289,840
Profuturo GNP          90.1           8.5             0.5              I                        59,010
Santander              82.3           15.7            1.9              0                      225,655
Tepeyac                94.1           3.3            2.1              0.6                       65,435
Siglo XXI               0.4           78.2           16.9             4.5                        4,508
Zurich                 25.3            0             74.7              0                          633
Average                71.6           15.7            12              0.5        __      __-
Min                     0.4            0              0.5              0            _-
Max                    94.3           78.2           74.7             4.5
Total (000 P)                 1,987,107
Average (000 P)             116,888,634
Average (US$)                14,611,079
Source: CONSAR, June 1997



Portion of
Expenditure in
Promotion &       Promotion &    Total Expenditure
AFORE                Total Costs          Publicity         Publicity      per Affiliate
Atlantico                422,960,861          7,420,010       1.8                 2,421.8
Banamex                  253,257,964           1,496,877      0.6                   185.1
Bancomer                1,018,108,046        152,715,953      15.0                 542.8
Bancrecer                198,222,438          6,262,776       3.2                  379.7
Banorte                  354,229,248         51,216,667       14.5                 468.2
Bital                    243,773,327         34,811,032       14.3                 236.7
Capitaliza                56,538,649          10,119,897      17.9                2,406.5
Confia                    73,844,806          14,051,017      19.0                1,088.9
Garante                  572,183,129         96,919,152       16.9                 466.8
Genesis                  140,463,793         29,793,246       21.2                1,187.3
Inbursa                      118,726             86,694       73.0                  0.40
Previnter                196,814,834         56,101,253       28.5                 755.7
Profuturo                517,941,924         49,557,808     _ 9.6                  369.0
Santander                671,021,196         108,169,129      16.1                 407.1
Tepeyac                   76,773,981         22,840,946       29.8                  808.2
XXI                       95,599,351          19,276,785      20.2                 315.2
urich                     10,882,909          2,390,858       22.0                 540.7
TOTAL                   4,902,735,183        663,230,099      13.5                  438.2
Source: CONSAR, December 31, 1997
[a] all figures in Mexican pesos
[b] AFORE Inbursa's pre-operational costs, as reported here, were paid entirely by its parent
Inbursa Financial Group, and, therefore, technically the AFORE incurred no pre-operational costs.
[c] CONSAR is currently working with the AFOREs to set an industry-wide closing date for the end
of the fiscal year. Until a common closing date is agreed upon, data on the pre-operational costs
of the AFOREs to the end of 1997 will be used.



Table A7b. AFORES Total Expenses and Agents, to February 1998
AFORE                           (000 Pesos)    (Pesos)       (U~~~~~~~~~~~LS$)
AFORE       | No. Agents No. Affiliates  Affil/Agent  (s              (Pess)fi .            1ia  .
lklq)btb    111.  Losts/Afi."I.
Atlantico Promex        1,219      181,212      149            34,880      192           22
Banamex                 5,399     1,397,784     259           220,352      158            18
Bancomer                3,831     1,898,134     495   _       970,276      511            59
Bancrecer Dresdner      8,336      554,125       66           202,070      365           42
Banorte                 4,376      898,435      205           110,521      123            14
Bital                   4,722     1,076,974     228           238,625      222           26
Capitaliza               546        34,299       63            43,448      1267          147
Conffa Principal        1,171       75,141       64            63,529      845           98
Garante                 5,864     1,285,235     219           428,414      333           39
Genesis                 1,006       127,349     127           131,413      1032          120
Inbursa                 1,886      301,413       160           32,032      106            12
Previnter               1,790      277,200       155          384,582     1387           161
Profuturo GNP           2,130     1,456,406     684           522,645      359           42
Santander Mexicano      2,322     1,687,617     727           669,388      397  _        46
Tepeyac                 3,238       96,751       30            64,707      669            78
AFORE XXI               1,983      322,342       163           93,759      291           34
Zurich                    564        21,366      38            20,254      948           110
TOTAL                  50,383    11,691,783                 4,230,895   ___
AVERAGE                 2,964                   225                        541            63
Source: CONSAR February 28, 1998
[a] ( Previous column)/8.6 pesos per $1US



AFORE               February     March       April       May       June        July      August   September    October    November   December    January         February
Atlantico                   0        1,170     20,265     37,899     57,964      90,286    107,715    124,967      142,798     158,146     174,648     180,026      181,212
Banamex                70,599      206,007    407,993    629,198    845,335   1,057,274  1,177,087   1,307,334    1,333,479    1,354,504    1,368,487    1,385,785    1,397,784
Bancomer               63,761      279,533    490,804    810,417   1,148,165   1,457,388  1,641,214   1,829,788    1,854,193    1,870,677    1,875,491    1,884,403    1,898,134
Bancrecer                 137       12,570     37,559     90,250    179,800     266,666    336,504    407,935     444,460     486,513      522,013     541,316      554,125
Banorte                 11,256      69,006    140,504    195,720    257,574     320,958    378,717    465,980     550,774     652,428      756,576     828,171      898,435
Bital        _    _     9,015       76,500    217,934    420,920    523,108     645,222    727,946    824,135     900,161     970,326    1,029,824    1,057,421    1,076,974
Capitaliza                  0           8         186       824       1,884       4,272     6,244       8,919       11,188      16,048     23,494       28,306       34,299
Confia                      0           0        978       6,291     17,120      31,778    41,199      50,585      57,373      63,128      67,816       71,317       75,141
Garante                  1,765      57,179    114,598    247,678    380,993     545,686    713,487    935,942    1,065,891    1,151,129    1,225,8551   1,256,036    1,285,235
Genesis                    90        1,140      6,174     16,827     28,754      43,609     62,396     80,748      95,326      109,134     118,306     122,803      127,349
Inbursa     _            1,099       4,871_    11,631     30,928     80,586     171,9331  229,170     271,470     279,921     284,717      294,633   __ 297,937     301,413
Previnter                  91        5,973     33,503     63,735     96,096     135,696    170,406    203,988     223,597     246,937      260,424 _    266,760    277,200
Profuturo GNP          36,144      157,926    268,794    417,008    586,878     773,312    976,546   1,215,095    1,292685    1,367,780    1,403,681    1,427,482    1,456,406
Santander              31,546      130,524    289,526    496,611    636,485     817,183  1,019,095   1,286,268    1,490,504    1,610,919    1,648,480    1,665,509    1,687,617
Tepeyac                     0         226       1,794      6,740     16,931      33,781     49,863     70,116      87,135      92,516       94,9        95,896       96,751
Siglo XXI    o_                          0       260       6,289     47,561     145,6391   185,447    233,579     258,619     277,901      303,268     312,969     322,342
urich                      0 _       203       1,978      6,641     12,336      16,625     17,595     18,861      19,118      19,572      20,128       20,323      21,366
Total__                225,503    1,002,836   2,044,481   3,483,976   4,917,570   6,557,308  7,840,631   9,335,710   10,107,222   10,732,375   11,188,1141  11,442,460   11,691,783
% IMSS Workers ~11'1   1.9        8.5         17.4       29.7       41.9       55.8       66.8       79.5        86.1        91.4         95.3        97.4         99.6
I               =                            I          I,                    I -  -    =                                                   l= - =
Source: CONSAR, elaboratedfrom PROCESAR data base, February 28, 1998
[a] number of IMSS workers officialy reported as 11,743,455



Table A9. Present Ranking of AFOREs
AFOORE         I        Affiliation              Collection          Assets under Management [bC Costs
_ __          (%)    _  Rank [a]         (%)         Rank           Pesos          Rank         Pesos      _ Rank
Atlantico          1.550         12            1.31          12                236.75     12              422.96      5
Banamex            11.96          4_    __ 18 73             2                1,578.79     3              253.26      7
Bancomer           16.23          1           22.95          1                5,025.08 I    1            1,018.11     1
Bancrecer           4.74          8            4.27          10                440.81      9              198.22      9
Banorte             7.68          7            4.70          9                 449.48}    8               354.23      6
Bital               9.21          6            7.92          4                 805.00 -   4               243.77      8
Capitaliza          0.29         16  =_      _0.17           17      =          62.70     17               56.54     15
Confia              0.64         15            0.66          13                109.75     13               73.84 __14
Garante            10.99   |      5            7.46          5                 698.92      7              572.18      3
Genesis             1.09         13      _    0.58           14                102.21     14               140.46     11
Inbursa             2.58         10           10.07          3                1,870.81     2                0.12      17
Previnter           2.37         11            2.79          11                274.23     11               196.81     10
Profuturo GNP      12.46          3_           5.57          7                 716.46      6              517.94{    4
Santander          14.43          2            7.21          6                 785.70      5              671.02      2
Tepeyac             0.83    _   14             0.39          15    __ _   ___ 90.29       15                76.77     13
Siglo XXI           2.76          9            4.92  -       8                 428.261    10  -            95.60     12
Zurich              0.18         17            0.28          16                 85.95     16                10.88 l   16
__ __ _   _ _ _  _ _  _  __           _  ___                                 t -_ _   _            108    _  _ _
---t~~~                            ~~~ .           -_-      _      _ --  ________._l__ _
TOTAL              100.00                     100.00                         13,761.20                   4,902.71 l        j
Source: CONSAR, February 28, 1998
[a] "1" highest, "17" lowest
[b] in millions of pesos
[c] in millions of pesos



Table A10
5I    CenraizedCollection System
Fkac
I~FONA                       Mhi*hy
(SHM~~~(S 
(2) ~~~      17 PROCESAR                          si-  q g ai
1  (6)               (5)1       /(1)$[T+
F                                     T
I ENPLOYfERS I          No        h 9    
| (3)[jad I                    (4) d
I = Flow of h-fomiation
$ =Flowof-Cmributiori
(1) IMSS sends information electronically to PROCESAR and INFONAVIT on invoices
issued.
(2) IMSS issues an invoice (with information from INFONAVIT) to employers, including all
Social Security and Housing Fund contributions for each of their employees.
(3) The employers determine their obligations using either the SUA (Sistema Unico de
Autodeterminacion) or the statement issued by the IMSS, and pay at the authorized
receiving banks.
(4) The authorized receiving bank deposits all collections received into the Central Bank of
Mexico (Banco de Mexico).
(5) The Central Bank of Mexico sends electronic information to PROCESAR on all
transactions (deposits received).
(6) The authorized receiving banks electronically send information on employer payments to
PROCESAR.
(7) PROCESAR assigns contributions to individual workers' accounts and informs the
respective AFORE.
(8) Once the amounts are confirmed by the AFOREs, PROCESAR requests the transfer of
resources from the Central Bank of Mexico to a commercial bank, who then transfers the
money to the AFOREs.
(9) PROCESAR calculates the social quota and government contribution and requests that the
Minister of Finance (SHCP) make the corresponding deposits in the Central Bank of
Mexico. Once completed, follows same process as step (8).
(10) At the request of PROCESAR, the Central Bank of Mexico transfers the resources to a
commercial bank.
(11) The same day the resources are received, the commercial bank transfers the resources to
each of the AFOREs.
Notes
1/ Entidades Receptoras
2/ Banco Liquidador



Invetmet Alocaionand( Return, by. Fund NIaniager ((lose February 1998)
SIEFOREs                       Total Portfolio   _     _     _                                                           Allocation                                   _                                        Rate of Return
CETES             B IIONDES k        BONDE91tid        AJUBONOS C'1        UDIBONOS 14          DEPBMX 1'l            Private           Bank Issues        Effective
(_/_)_             (%/)               (O)          _____                     (¶4)                ('/s)              /(¶)        h        (¶)              (%/)
AP INDEX                          236,746,486.31       45.41               0.00               54.56               0.00               0.00                0.02                0.00                                 20.77
BANAMEX                          1,518,790,697.04_     37.40               4.73               36.70               0,00               2. 17               0.00                u.00       j        0.00             21.18
BANCOMER                        5,025,082,924.11       45.00               0.04               42.79               0.00               12.11               0.05                 0                                   23.14
BANCRECER                         440,S13,552.92       40.39               0.2.                                   0.00               31.2S               0.05                0.00                0.00             14.49
BANORTE                           449,480,374.67       34.74               5.12               30.49               0.00               29.65               0.00                0.00                0.00             22.26
rIITAL    _ ________             805,002,314.92 _44.50                     1.64               29.00              0.00               24.87                0.00               0.00                000              20.85
CAPITALIZA                         62,700,634.58       39.87               0.00               28.02                0.00              32.10               0.00                0.00                0.00             20.51
CONFIA - PRINCIPAL                109,754,081.21       31.95                S.42               31.48              0.00               31.15               0.00                0.00               0°00              19.97
GARANTE                  _        698,920,830.52       43.94               0.00               27.20               0.00       |       28.86               000                 000         |       000               19.97
GENESIS                           102,206,054.01       31.93               4.94                27.18              0.00               27.48               0.00                8.47        |       0.00             20.76
INBURSA                  ._    1,870,812,100.25        25.72               0.00               49.10               9.66               14.44               0.03                1.05                0.00             21.39
PREVINTER        _                274,230,691.36       42.20               0.00               29.92               0.00               27.88               0.00                0.00       I        0.00             20.53
PROFlTUROGNP                      716,464,011.03        1.12                0.00               65.92              0.00               22.63                0.00               10.33               0 _ '            21.49
_____________________   ______________________________   000  22.39              0,00               29.32               0.02213             0.003                .00             21,4
SANTANDER - MEXICANO              785,695,227.91       44.41               0.00    _2239                          0,00               29.32                0.01               0.00                3.87             20.66
TEPEYAC           ____            90,290,39081         31.19               0.00               50.18              16.26               2.37                0.00               0.00                0.00              20.68
XXI   _________                  428,257,072.83        46.41               0.00               30.34              0.00               17,66                0.00                5.59       j       00                19.57
ZURICH                             85,951,921.33        39.92               0.00               35.37              0,00               24.72                0.00               0.00                0.00              20.06
TOTAL                       |  13,761,1",365.81  _  5,266,538,422.72   _123,757,863.23     5,478,606,15139     195,322,326.62     2,536,593,905.32 |        _        3,700,54025 | 126,274,473.90 !  S0,405,682.8__   __
TOTAL PORTFOLIO                                        3S.27               0.90               39.81               1.42               18.43                0.03               0.92                022
ALLOCATION                 0..                                                                                __ _ _            ___22 _____                              ____
Total Market Size            _                     148,419,000,000          n/a           8 82,041,000,000    6,699,000,000      20,270,000,000           n/a        L        n/a                 n/a
/ of Total Debt Market       _                 ,       57.0         _                 {       32.0                3.0                8.0         |                  |
Afore Inveatmuatg % ¶of   aj                          3.55                                    6.68               2.92               12.51                          I
Market Skche                                       ____   __ _          i_      _        ___I_ _ __ __                                                         _      _      __         -     _
Source: CONSXR February 28,1998
ls] tOtPl ortfollo in peos, representieng mnasket valu of financial instrumens, including interest
[bi Ceetificados de la Tesoreia de la Federacion (Ireausy Bills)
[cl Bonos de Daaollo del Gobiemno Fedea (Federa Government development bends)
(dl BoInm de Deallo del Gobiento Federal 1991 (Feder Goveninn development boetde 1591)
[el Bonos AjubtaMes dd Gobiemo Fedral (Fedrl Goveent foatn rate bonds)
ffloBows de Dfaero del Cietbo Fedeal DeDmo ds en UnAids de Inveion (Federl Gonument inastion iudexed developnentbonde denoinated ins nvtnentuts (UDIs))
Wg DEPBMX (Dpee at Baton de Modes)



AFORE                            Juy'7August                                  September                Octoe                 November                December               Jansuary '98    I        Februaty
Monthly   Cumulative1  Monthly ]Cumulative1               MonthlyCulaie           Monthly TCumulative  Monthly 1 uuaie  otl   Cumulative   Monthly   Cuulative   Mnhy Cmltve
ATLANTICO PRONMEX           18.96       18.96[   19.38         19.12       19.83       19.58      15.99       18.78       17.95       18.92      26.12       20.48       22.74       20.86       17.41       20.77
RANAMEX                     19.02       19.02      25.87  2- 21.29         24.25       222         U.2        18.95       6.38        18.8~7       23.42  : 2.1-                     209       -2.4          21.18
15.44  15   44__ ___ _ 28___74_ 21___15                    8__ _73 _     21_ _ __ _                        __ _ __6_ _ _ __         2.69_ _ _ _           _ __67      __ _ _ _
BANCOMER                    154          54         87           ll~       41155      26 25        87         216         9.7        21.57       25.14       22.26   1-21.91         23.20       19.78       23.14
______   ______   _______   _______   1   ________   ____ - __ _   50          9          2 95         312.52                                      16__ _   _99___ __   ______51   13-- 38  14{__ 49
BANCRECER                   15.07       1.7         14.81      14.64       17.49                    91         2169833 _ 
BANORTE                     24.82       24.82       17.84      2.83        33___42_   246         206          49         20.67      225         19.36       23.51b    20. 961       2.2-    16.98          22.26
____      ___                 ____3641   ________2383_                                                                                                                                     12       2.8
BITAL364                                36.41       19.05      27.81       25.71      25.64        4.19       2.57        2.78       22.15       25.66       2.83        21.35       21.02  I-  80         08
CAPITALIZA____             21_50       21___50     16___74     18__84     23.13       20.26       13.76      19.77   -~12.19         19.51      21.70       20.38       22.71       20.57       18.81       20.51
CONFIA              ~~~~~~18.30  18.30      18.89       18.1-5      23.92      19.16       15.21       18.67       15.74      18.88       20.43       19.57   121.92          19.98       18.17      19.97
GARANTE          - ~~~~26-.40    26.40      21.51       24.24       23.77      22.98       14.11       21.-31      7.55   -Y- 2.5-9    2-3.3 4   T20.74  4 2I91               19.69       18.82       19.97
GNsI                    23.45     23.45-        17.78      2-1.05-     22.65-      21.33       13.82      2.8         11.51       19.65      240         213         2.92.2                  1862.7
INBURSA             ~~~~~20.08   20.08      20.00       20.21       28.54      22.31 -    17.09  I21.25   ,16.75              20.96  i 19.90          20.94       23.80        14          9113
PREVINTER                   19.09       19.09      22.27       20.03       24.48       2.1         16.472     22.78 -~ 18.51          18.--      2.2         20.31       20.991   20.5           18.25      20.53
PROFUTUR-0                  27.27       27.27      26.38       2681        2.7 4 25.22             16.47_                            22.3   i 238            22.95       21.48-   21.85          17.76       21.49
SANTANDER           ~19.28       19.28      17.46       182~        29.10  4 21.02   I 8.85            1.0         98         1790        25155   I 20.671 187                                       206
TEP-EYAC   ___              14.59   T 14.59         18.11  1 17.05         30.28    -19.29        17.69       19.08       16.69       19.09      21.74       19.85       23.12  -~21.08'                    20.68
xxi               26.71      ~~~~26.711    22.26    -24.08       20.91      21.53        9.14       20.20       6.71        19.85      21 34   T  20.84        20.67       19.54        6.8        19.57
ZURICH              ~~~~~17.85   17.85      21.03       18.95   126.39         20.20   T 11.72         19156 --10.55--- 1.4                9.7         971        291001                 1.6         2.6
Average         ___         214         212         2048       20.74  125.81          21.64       12.25   L199             1.48      ___    ____             2.1          15          10      -10            15
Annualze  Ifain19.70                                     1.818.16                                       18.24                   17.77_                 15.72                   15.27      ______S3
Source: CONSAR, February 28. 1998
[a] Rates may not be iniernally consistent due lo use of different bases in the cumulative calculation.



CURPs
AORE             Generated       % Share of CURPs
Generated
Atlantico              76,098            1.79
Banamex               480,351           11.28
Bancomer              556,515           13.07
Bancrecer             267,824            6.29
Banorte               249,955            5.87
Bital                 243,664            5.72
Capitaliza              9,420           0.22
Confia                 41,427            0.97
Garante               626,336           14.71
Genesis                43,058            1.01
Inbursa                95,867            2.25
Previnter              53,338            1.25
Profuturo GNP         663,106           15.57
Santander             579,996           13.62
Tepeyac                41,582            0.98
Siglo XXI             214,679            5.04
Zurich                 15,597            0.37
Total               4,258,813           100.00
Source: CONSAR, PROCESAR, February 28, 1998
[a] Clave Unica de Registro de Poblacion



NORM                            DATE                       TITLE 
Law                             23 May 1996                Pension system law - Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro|
Regulation                      10 October 1996            Pension system regulation - Reglamento de la Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro
Circular of the Finance Ministry  10 October 1996          Rules for the establishment of Pension Fund Administrators (AFOREs)
(SHCP)                                                                                                                                     l
Circular CONSAR 01-1             10 October 1996           General rules establishing the authorization process for the establishment and operation of
AFOREs and Specialized Pension Mutual Funds (SIEFOREs)
Circular CONSAR 02-1            10 October 1996            General rules establishing capitalization requirements for AFOREs and SIEFOREs
Circular CONSAR 03-1            10 October 1996            General rules regarding the market share limitations on AFOREs
Circular CONSAR 04-1            10 October 1996            General rules establishing the commission structure for AFOREs
Circular CONSAR 05-1             10 October 1996           General rules for agents promoting AFOREs
Circular CONSAR 06-1             10 October 1996           General rules regarding publicity and promotion carried out by AFOREs
Circular CONSAR 07-1            9 January 1997             General Rules regarding the registration of workers for AFOREs and the Pension System
Data Base Management Corporations
Circular CONSAR 08-1             10 January 1997           General rules regarding minimum operational requirements for AFOREs
Circular CONSAR 09-1             10 January 1997           General rules establishing the characteristics of information that the AFOREs should
disclose to the workers and the general public
Circular CONSAR 10-1             14 January 1997           General rules establishing the characteristics that the information booklets and brochures
that the SIEFOREs provide to the workers should meet
Circular CONSAR 11- 1            18 February 1997          General rules establishing the information that should be included in the pension fund
management contract
Circular CONSAR 12-1             16 April 1997             General rules regarding the accounting practices and the process and presentation of
financial statements of AFOREs and SIEFOREs
Circular CONSAR 10-2            30 June 1997               Changes and additions to the general rules establishing the characteristics of the
information booklets and brochures that the SIEFOREs should provide to the workers
Circular CONSAR 13-1            30 June 1997               General rules establishing the commissions that could be charged by credit institutions, on
assets accumulated to June 1997 in SAR'92 retirement and housing sub-accounts registered
with their institution
Circular CONSAR 14-1            30 June 1997               General rules establishing the commission structure for Pension System Data Base
Management Corporations
Circular CONSAR 15-1            30 June 1997               General rules establishing the investment regime for SIEFOREs whose portfolio must be



Table A13. Chronology of Regulations Issued by CONSAR
NORM             _              DATE                      TITLE
invested in securities that preserve the purchasing power of workers' savings
Circular CONSAR 16-!            30 de june l,97           General rules establishing terms anud cnditions regarding the emission, collection, and
contribution expenses generated by the Mexican Institute of Social Security that the
AFOREs are obliged to pay
Circular CONSAR 17-1            29 July 1997              General rules establishing the minimum requirements that employer-established pension
plans or pension plans established by collective contract, must meet to be registered with
CONSAR
Modification CONSAR 15-1        29 October 1997           Modifications to Circular 15-1 on SIEFORE Investment Regime
Modification CONSAR 13-1        31 October 1997           Modifications to Circular 13-1 on Commisions on SAR'92 Accounts
Modification CONSAR             11 November 1997          General rules establishing the requirements for employer-established pension plans or
art. 27                                                   pension plans established by collective contract under article 27, section VII of the Social
Security Law
Circular CONSAR                  11 November 1997         General rules regarding the refund of payments made without legal justification
Circular CONSAR                 11 November 1997          General rules for AFOREs regarding the value of shares and stocks purchased with
SIEFORE capital
Modification CONSAR 12-1        14 November 1997          Modifications to Circular 12-1 on Accounting Rules
Modification CONSAR 05-1        14 November 1997          Modifications and additions to Circular 05-1 on AFORE Agents
Circular CONSAR                 17 November 1997          General rules regarding information that the system's actors - Receiving Banks, Data Base
Management Corporations, AFOREs, and the SIEFOREs - shall deliver to CONSAR
Circular CONSAR                 2 December 1997           General rules for AFOREs and Data Base Management Corporations, regarding the
Idisclosure and confidentiality of retirement insurance information and retirement pensions



A14. Organizational Structure Of Consar l
I JUDICIAL OFFIE 
RISK MANAGEMENT
& SYSTEMS
PERFORMANCE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT  OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT  PLANNING EPARTMENT                               MEASUREMENT
[VICE PRESIDENCYA  [VICE PRESIDENCY]        [VICE PRESIDENCY]     [
| JUDICIAL OFFICE |    |  INSPECTION   O   OFFICE OFFDATA 
I            r   |                r   |-    & STATISTICS r
CONSULTATIONS &
SETTLETMENTS  _ |SUPERVISION            OFE ONIUNAN G                ML
ATTENTION                                  PLACO
TO WORKERS
TCNCA SECETARIA
COMMUNICATION                _ADMINISTRATION
AND NETWORK      __
OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT &       OFFICE OF FINANCE &
INTERINSTITUTIONAL   _MATERIALS                _
COMMITTEES
[  HUMAN RESOURCES
[a] Total number of employees as of February 1, 1998: 206



Daily on Retirement &Housing Sub Accouns "--                             Weekly on Aflain& Fund Promoters'"                                 Monthly on Accounts Administered and SIEFORE Funds
Previous-day's Balance                                                      No. of Affiliates                                                jCumulative Worker Affiliation
Charaes Subtracted                                                          No. of new Registrations for Affliation                           I No. of Requests for Account Reconciliation
Payments Made                                                               No. of Registrations from Workers Affiliated Elsewhere           |No. of Accounts Reconciled
End-of-day Balance                                                          No. of Registration Submitted to Operator                         No. of Accounts Administered
No. of Registrations Rejected by Operator                        No. of Requests to Withdrawal, and Balances Withdrawn
No. of Rejections w/Explanation                                  Balances ceded to SIEFOREs from Reconciled Accounts
No. of Rejections for Insufficient Data                          Balances received from SIEFORE by Reconciled Account
No. of Submitted Registrations Pending                           No. of SAR'92 Accounts Transferred
No. of Promoters that Passed Qualifying Exam
No. of Promoters who Failed Qualifying Exam
No. of Promoters Registered with CONSAR
Share Value                                                                                                                                   Signed Monthly Financial Statements, Prepared to Uniform Specification
No. of Securities Sold and Purchased                                                                                                          Portfolio Holdings & Valuation of Shares
Securities Portfolio                                                                                                                          Signed Minutes from Strategy Meetings of Investment Conunittee
No. of Shares Held by the Fund                                                                                                                Signed Valuation of Fund Shares & Report of Purchase and Sale of Shares
Determination of Share Prices                                                                                                                 I Prospectus of Each New Instrument Acquired, on Day of Acquisition
Previous-day's Balance on all Accounts
No. of Accoumts
Financial Statements Reviewed by CONSAR
Previous-day's Balance & Activity on Both Accounts                          No. of Registrations for Affiliation Received from AFOREs         No. of Withdrawal Requests, and Balances Withdrawn in Programmed Retirements
No. of Affiliates Registered with each AFORE                    I Signed Financial Statement by fifth working day after end of month
No. of Request to Correct Erroneous Registrations
No. of Requests for Change in AFORE Affiliation
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =
On Disclosure via Statement ofAccount                              Inventory of Accounts Admrinistered by AFORE                     Inventory of Accounts Administered by AFOREs by Status ofAccount
No. of Account Statements Issued                                            No. of Accounts Administered at Start of Year                     No. of Accounts Administered at Start of Year, by Account Status
o. of Account Statements Distributed                                       No. of Workers' Accounts that Changed Status During Year          No. of Accounts Whose Status was Altered During Year. by Account Status
o. of Account Statements not Distributed                                   No. of Accounts Administered at End of Year                       No. of Accounts Administered at End of Year, by Account Status
Source: CONSAR, Circular 19-1
[a] data received daily, from 07:00 to 09:30 hours
[b] 'week' extends from Saturday to Friday - data received on following Tuesday between 10:00 and 13:00 hours
[c] data received on the fifth business day after die end of each month between 10:00 and 13:00 hours



A16a. Individual Statement of AFORE/INFONAVIT Account
Periodo que comprende el Estado de Cuenta: DD/MMIAAAA al DD/MM/AAAA
Nombre             Apellido paterno   Apellido matemo                 Ndrmero de Seguridad Social (NSS)
Domicilio:                                                            R. F. C.
Col.:                                                                 CURP
C.P.:
Entidad Federativa:
Delegaci6n o Municipio:
Denominaci6n o Raz6n Social:
Domicilio:                                                            Domicilio:
Col.:                           C.P.:                                 Col.:                            C.P.:
Teldfono:                                                             Telefono:
Clave de Autorizaci6n de la AFORE:
Horario de atenci6n:
Telefono de consulta gratuita:
Subcuenta                                  Saldo Inicial                     Saldo Final
Retiro de Regimen Anterior
Retiro, Cesantla en Edad Avanzada y Vejez
Aportaciones Voluntarias
TOTAL SAR
Vivienda (del 2° bimestre de 1992 al 3er de 1997)
Vivienda (a partir del 4° bimestre de 1997)
TOTAL VIVIENDA
Tasa de Rendimiento promedio del perlodo: DDIMM/AAAA AL DD/MM/AAAA
Concepto                                                           Estructura                        Importe
Sabre Flujo Retiro, Cesantfa en Edad Avanzada y Vejez
Sobre dep6sitos o retiros de la subcuenta de Aportaciones
Voluntarias
Sobre Saldo
TOTAL
Ndmero    Precio por                  Nbmero       Precio por               Porcentaje    Rendimiento de
SIEFORE    Acciones         Acci6n      Importe    Acciones       Accion       Importe   de Inversi6n   la SIEFORE %
Inicial     (Inicial)                  Final        (Final)
"LA POSICION EN ACCIONES DE LA SIEFORE REPRESENTA EL AHORRO EN LAS
SUBCUENTAS DE RETIRO, CESANTiA EN EDAD AVANZADA Y VEJEZ Y DE APORTACION
VOLUNTARIA, SIN INCLUIR LAS APORTACIONES DE VIVIENDA."
"LAS APORTACIONES DE VIVIENDA NO SON ADMINISTRADAS POR LA SIEFORE, ESTAS
SE CANALIZAN DIRECTAMENTE AL INFONAVIT."



A16a. (continued)
DETALLE DE MOVIMIENTOS
Subtti aen tite Retiro dlel Re,dmenn lnterier                              S11d l   io( -I alt    S'c
Fecha            Concepto                       Entidad de Origen                 Cargos (-)          Abonos (
TOTAL
Suhbc-it'nl (le Reiir' (Cesai,tia, e't E l'ch,. I mizalc, y I '1,jt,z
Fecha            Concepto                       Entidad de Origen                 Cargos              Abonos 
TOTAL_         _
Suhbcuirt tl ie I ivjic'nda (/IVN  OI. VI IT )
Fecha   I        Concepto          |            Entidad de Origen             |   Cargos (-)         Abonos (+)
(Del 2° Bimestre de 1992 al 3er bimestre de 1997)
TOTAL
(A partir del 4to bimestre de 1997)
TOTAL         .....                  _                                          _
Fecha            Concepto                       Entidad de Origen                 Cargos (-)         Abonos (+)
TOTAL



Item on Account Statement (In Spanish)              Explanation
DA TOS DE IDENTJFICACION DEL TRABAJADOR    Information on affiliated worker.
*  Numero de Seguridad Social (NSS)                 IMSS assigned identification number.
*  Clave Unica de Registro de Poblaci6n (CURP)      Single I.D. number used across institutions.
*  Registro Federal de Contribuyentes (RFC)         Number assigned by the Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de
Hacienday Credito Publico) to identify contributor.
DA TOS DE IDENTIFICACION DE LA AFORE                AFORE identification.
*  Clave de autorizacion de la AFORE                Identification number assigned by CONSAR to the AFORE.
UNIDAD  ESPECIALIZADA   DE  ATENCION  AL  AFORE   Customer  Service  branch  information  (Unidad
PUBLICO                                             Especializada de Atenci6n al Ptiblico).
RESUMEN GENERAL DE SALDOS                           Balance in each sub-account at start and end of reporting period.
*  Saldo                                            Accumulated balance in each of the workers' sub-accounts.
*  Saldo Inicial                                    Total accumulated starting balance.
*  Saldo Final                                      Total accumulated ending balance.
*  Retiro del Regimen Anterior                      Amount accumulated by contributions to SAR fromMarch, 1992 to
June, 1997, plus late payments and returns earned.
*  Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada y Vejez        Accumulated balance in the Retirement, Unemployment, and Od
Age sub-account (Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Vejez)
from July, 1997.
*  Aportaciones voluntarias                         Accumulated voluntary contributions deposited to the sub-account
from July, 1997.
*  Vivienda (del 20 bimestre de 1992 al 3er_ bimestre de Accumulated balance in the housing sub-account fromMarch, 1992
1997)                                           to May, 1997, plus late payments and dividends managed b
INFONAVIT.
*   Vivienda (a partir del 4° bimestre de 1997)     Accumlated balance in the housing sub-account fromJuly, 1997,
plus late payments and dividends managed by INFONAVIT.
RENDIMIENTO DE LA SUBCUENTA DE VIVIENDA   The average rate of return reported by INFONAVIT over the
reporting period of the Statement of Account, expressed in
annualized terms.
RESUMEN DE COMISIONES COBRADAS POR LA                Breakdown of commissions charged by the AFORE over the
AFORE                                                reporting period in the Statement of Account.
*  Estructura                                       The commissions the AFORE will charge. In case of commissions
charged on flows, the base salary is considered.
If the AFORE does not charge for some of the items, it should b
specified on the corresponding line that said charge does not apply.
*  Importe                                          Total amount of the commissions charged on all items over the
reporting period.
*  RCV                                              Retirement, Unemployment, and Old Age.
*  Comisi6n sobre Flujo RCV                         Commission on flow into Retirement, Unemployment, and Old Age
sub-account, excluding the social quota.
*  Comisi6n sobre Aportaciones Voluntarias          Commission on voluntary contributions or withdrawals made ove
the reporting period.
*  Comisi6n sobre saldo                             Commissions on balance or accumulated assets charged over the
reporting period.
*  Cuota Social                                     Sum deposited daily by the Federal Governement to the worker's
account, for each day of paid employment and contribution.



A161). Key Features and Cmitent of InidividuatlI Statemiien't of Account
TENENCIA ACCIONARIA POR SIEFORE                   Number of SIEFORE shares owned by the worker at the start an
end of the reporting period.
*  SIEFORE                                        Ticker symbol of the Specilized Pension Mutual Funds (SIEFORE).
*  Acci6n                                         Title that guarantees and represents the value of one share of th
SIEFORE.
*  Numero de Acciones                             Number of SIEFORE shares owned by the worker at the start or end
of the reporting period, to three significant places.
*  Precio por Acci6n                              SIEFORE share price.
*  Importe                                        Peso value of SIEFORE shares held by the worker, to one
significant place.
*  Porcentaje de Inversifn                        Percentage of the total resources of the Individual Account tha
were invested in the referred SIEFORE at the end of the reportin
period.
*  Rendimiento de la SIEFORE                      Rate of return obtained by the SIEFORE in the referred period, by
daily value of the shares, expressed in annualized terms.
DETALLEDEMOVIMIENTOS                              Deposit or withdrawal activity on the Individual Account, over th
reporting period.
*  Fecha                                          Date of action on sub-account.
i   Concepto                                      Describes the activity and in which sub-account action is taken.
*  Entidad de Origen                              Entity taking action (AFORE, Government, worker)
*  Cargos                                         Charges for AFORE services.
*  Abono                                          Payments to the sub-accounts.
RETIRO DEL REGIMENANTERIOR.                       Payments from SAR 92-97 during reporting period.
SUBCUENTA  DE RETIRO, CESANTfA EN EDAD  Activities on Retirement, Unemployment, and Old Age sub-accoun
A VANZADA Y VEJEZ                                 during the reporting period.
SUBCUENTA DE VIVIENDA (INFONA VIT)                Activities on housing sub-account during the reporting period.
*  Del 2° bimestre de 1992 hasta el 3er bimestre de 1997 Activity related to SAR 92-97 balances in the housing sub-accoun
over the reporting period.
*  A partir del 40 bimestre de 1997               Activity on housing sub-account as of August '97, over the
reporting period.
*  Concepto                                       Describes the operation carried out on this sub-account. When th
concept corresponds to the payment of interest, the monthly rate o
return used by INFONAVIT to calculate the amount to deposit wil
be indicated.
SUBCUENTA DEAPORTACIONES VOLUNTARIAS    Activities on voluntary sub-account over the reporting period.
*  Cartera de Valores                             SIEFORE investment portfolio.



Al 7a. Switching Between AFOREs: Through an Agent
5                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.
*Recibe estado de cuenta                                   * identifica las solicitudes de estado de cuenta que no pueden emitirse, por
*Recibe estado de cuenta                                                                             encontrarse en alguno de los sigulentes supuestos:
*Elige AFORE reoeptora que administrard su cuenta individual,                                   Los datos del trabajadaor no corresponden a los registrados en la
presentando ante el agente promotor los siguientes documentos                                   AFORE transferente.
*  Slicitud de trasparo;AOEtaseet
* Copit de trs paob                                                                        No ha transcurrido un ai'o a partir de la pnmera aportaci6n.
* Copiadeldocumeanlo probatorio  constanciaCURP                                                 haan modfcado las comisiones.
* ldentiadcaci6n oficial; y                                                                Por haber dejado de administrar la cuenta o estar en otro tramite de
Estado de cuenta para traspaso                                                           traspaso o retiro.
6.3
*Presenta solicitud de traspaso y documentaci6n adicional ante el agente                 Ed
promotor o en sucursal de la AFORE receptora                                          *Emite estado de cuenta a documento donde oonste las causas por las cuales
no procede el traspaso. El estado de cuenta debe contener datos de la cuenta
individual, los movimientos registrados en un periodo de un aso, saldos,
numero de control del estado de cuenta (folio) y una leyenda donde se indica al
trabajador la utilidad del estado de cuenta
* Envia el estado de cuenta al domicilio del trabajador en un plazo maximo de 10
TRABAJADOR                                                                        dias habiles.                   4
* Notifica a al empresa operadora los datos de las cuentas individuales a las que
emiti6 estado de cuenta, incluyendo informaci6n del folio
*Solicita a la AFORE trasferente la emision de un estd_                                              C    DC                                                       t1
de cuenta para traspaso (En sucursales y oficinas de laIwc                                     A  FORE                     *La AFORE Identifica las cuen    tas materia de traspaso como en proceso de traspaso.
AFORE o a traves de correo oJertircado)                                       =                                               z £ = * *Envia a l as emp re sas operadoras la informaci6n relativa a las c uentas individuales a
Acude a la AFORE y presenta:                                      ~~~~~~~transferente               traspasar, anotando los datos de la cuenta individual, nmr  eacoe    ads
* Solicitud                                                                                                           sociedad de inversi6n, y saldos de la subcuenta de vivienda al primer dia del mes.
* Identificaci6n oricial con fotografia
Nota: La soliatud contendra los datbs de la cuenta
individual, domicilio actualizado, firma del trabajador y
una leyenda donde se manifiesta el deseo del trabajador
pars ejercer su derecho a traspasar la cuenta individual.
9.
L*Certifica que las solicitudes de traspaso cumplan con los siguientes criterios:
*Que el digito verificador del NSS sea correcto;
AFORE                                                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Que at digito verificador del CURP en su caso sea correcto;
Operadora                   -~~~~~~Quo el nombre del trabajador se encuentre registrado en Ia BDNSAR en Is AFORE
RECEPTORA                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~transferente,
BDNSAR                    -~~~~~~~Quaela agents promotor esat vigente;
*Que la cuenta no este en retiro o traspaso;
7.                                                                                   8*Que el folio del estado de cuentu para traspaso sea igual al registrado por la AFORE
*Verifica qua Ia solicitud cumpla con los siguientes cniterios:8.                                                                                transfarente, y
* Llenado coricto da tos datos de I trabajador                                                      -La AFORE transferente prepara archivo  *Que el numero de cuentas de la AFORE receptora no exceda el porcentaje de
*     CURP a 15 posiciones an su caso;                                                              magn6tico de las solicitudes de traspaso,  participaci6n.
* NSS a 11 posiciones emismo que deberd considerar los datos  *Notifica a las AFORES receptoras las solicitudes qua no cumplen con los criteros de
* Porcentajes de seleccidn de SIEFORES igual at 100%                                                 odea cetad idiiueltrabara ctrtispaso
* Llenado correcto del folio del estado de cuenta de traspaso;                                      foodeS estado de cuenSa pars traspaso, *Registra como en tramite de traspaso las solicitudes de traspaso procedentes, en la
* Llenado correcto de la dave de la AFORE transferente;                                             clave de la AFORE transferente, datos   BDNSAR
* Firma del trabajador; y                                                                           del agente promotor y clave de la AFORE -De ser el caso tramitan CURP ante el RENAPO
* Qua los documentos no presenten tachaduras o enmendaduras                                         transferente.                                                              10.
Si la solicitud cumple con los criterios antes mencionados, acepta la solicitud.                         aEnvia a la empress operadora los  *Envia a las AFORES transferentes los datos de las cuentas individuales cuyos traspasos
archivos electr6nicos con las solicitudes  son procedentes
de traspaso
N. M SAR
coneiNlo Wh   5I f  I mn-d   SsD, elmasl



Al 7a. Continued
|BANCO 
LIQUIDADOR  |
*Verifica quo las AFORES transferentes
depositen los montos faltantes para liquidar los
13                                                                traspasos.
A mas tardar a las 7:30 A M registra ante la                                       -Si existen faltantes por AFORE asigna linea de
empresa operadora el precio de los titulos                                         cr6dito para complementar la liquidaci6n de
que so traspasan                                                                   traspasos.
18,
*Notifica a las empresas operadoras los montos
111                         quo destin6 de la linea de cr6dito para liquidar
AFORE                     *LaAFORE Identifica las cuentas materia de        los traspasos
AFORE            ~ ~~~trapaso como I en proceso de traspaso'
tran fe            n           *Enviaa  las enpresas operadoras la
tansferent.e                 informaca6n relativa a las cuentas individuales a
traspasar, anotando los datos de la cuenta
individual, numero de acciones y saldos,
, I s      sociedad de inversi6n, y saldos de la subcuenta
de vivienda al primer dia del mes.
16
*Ams trar a las 1 1:00 AM  transfiere
AFORE                                                                                                                       r >  >    k ;ecursos al banro b iquidador pAr los mortos
faltantes para liquidar los traspasos
RECEPTORA                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21,
RECEPTORA                                                                12                                                       *Registra los montos traspasados y nurmero de
*Envia a las AFORES receptoras la                                          acciones liquidadas en las cuentas individuales
infommaci6n de la cuentas individuales
20                      que se traspasan
* Con los montos qua recibe de traspasos compra arciones
22.                                                                                                                                        14.
* Registra los movimientos de oompra de acciones y montos traspasados                                                                                                      14
en las auentas individuales.                                                                                                       *Calcula por AFORE los montos netos a traspasar (Traspasos cedidos menos traspasos
* Registra los movimientos de traspaso de la subusenta de vivienda, con                             fln    r2,Inr2                   recibidos)
fecha valor al primero del mes anterior                                                                     r                      --A mas tardar a las 8:00 ANM envia a las AFORES transferentes, los montos netos a
* Actual'izea los intereses qua con motivo del traspasos se hubiesen                                    BDNSAR                       trassar15
generado en la subcuenta de vivienda desds el primer dia del mes de la                                                             *Notifica al Banco liquidador los montos que deberin depositar las AFORES
notificaci6n de saldos por la AFORE transferente, hasta el uitimo dia del                                                          transferentes
mes utilizado para liquidador los traspasos                                                                 19'
*Despubs de las 11:00 A. M.
dispersa los montos netos a las
AFORES receptoras
SAR
c    rM N"  *" r3w.U Ao p-n M fW



Al 7b. Switching Between AFOREs: Automatically AFORE to AFORE
7
Envia confirmaci6n en 1er Estado Cuenta y
saldo de la cuenta traspasada
TRABAJADOR
6
* Genera cuenta indiMidual y subcuentas
(Independiente para SAR 92)
* Concilia informaci6n Vs. recursos y distribuye en
cada SIEFORE seguin informaci6n de AFORES
* Genera confirmaci6n en ler Estado Cuenta
|AFORE                                                              Mecanismo de')
RECEPTORA                                                                 compensaci6nr)
i rnftr  nformadi6n
de la cuenta                                                   4
Ordena la
transferencia
de tos
recursos a la
AFORE
3.1                           receptora
Da saldos de las subcuentas e
. formacin hist6rica
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BNA                                                                                                                      CEDENTE|
8.2                                                                            1.                                                 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
8.2 CO RSA                                   Reporta al INFONAVIT                                                                                      2
Reporta a la CONSAR                     ~~los traspasos             + Aplica criterios para identificar cuentas             *Calcula saldos de subcuentas de la cuenta
un informe sobre el                                   individuales                  duplicadas en AFORES, Si el trabajador                  individual
proceso de traspaso.                                                                esta en la BDNSAR con otra AFORE
(cedente), le solicita la cuenta.
INFONAVIT
:SAR
00l loOsaxo"N a 510  o    e', el M.



A18. Transfer of SAR'92 Fundsfrom Banks to AFOREs
4
* Revisa en Base Datos SAR'92, que exista la cuenta (s)
y que coincida RFC y datos generales
* Rechaza en caso de no se encontrada
8
* Transfiere la informaci6n de (a cuenta individual o el
5.                               rechazo
Solicita al banco el traspaso de la          * Actualiza informaci6n
6.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cuenta
Identifica cuenta, cacula              BANCO                      -                                                         OPERADORA
saldos y transfiere recursos                                      _
(virtual en su caso)         _                                                          7.                                       BDNSAR
Entrega saldos o rechazo
> #                                           ~~~         ~         ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~8.2//
r    Ordena la transferencia (virtual
/   \   _  en su caso) de los recursos  /    /               3
Solicita el traspaso
de la cuenta (s) del
Mecanismo                                                   g      _ _               17          /     \   Trabajador de
compensacion                                                  ,8.1                                            SAR _L
j*entrega infonmacion/
a                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12.2
12.1                         I Iforma
Inforae
8.3.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ trsatras                                     apasos
\ 1                        Entrega en su                             cuentaindid
I  *Entrega confirmaci6n en ler Estado Cuenta o    *Eteae  ucs  eusSs                                                                  niiuls        / 
rechazo y motivos              r                                                        - 
TRABAJADOR
INFONAVIT  COSR
* Documentaci6n que lo acredite como titular de la                                      2
cuenta individual en la AFORE                                 * Revisa documentad6n recibida (tachaduras y
* Datos de las cuentas en los bancos.                              enmendaduras) y consistencia de los datos
(IDEM Proceso de Registro)
9
* Recibe confirmaci6n de apertura de la cuenta, en su
caso concilia informaci6n Vs. recursos y distribuye en
cada SIEFORE segun informaci6n de AFORES
10
* Actualizaci6n de saldos e intereses
, SAR
sillR" "n



Annex IV
Page I of 10
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
INVESTMENTAND RISK MANAGEMENTIN THE REFORMED SYSTEM
1.    Introduction
This Annex focuses on three aspects of the reformed pension system in Mexico - (i) the investment regime
and its evolution; (ii) the financial and market risks of the system and their management; and (iii) systemic
problems that could impact sound management of assets. The discussion in Section 2 on the investment
regime covers past regulations that have been issued by CONSAR, analysis of problems arising thereof and
subsequent corrective steps taken by CONSAR. This discussion deals with the evolution of the regulatory
environment. Section 3 addresses the role of CONSAR in managing risks in the new system. It discusses
issues in the identification, measuring, monitoring, and management of market and systemic risks, credit
risks, and liquidity risks. The section also highlights the importance of an integrated approach to risk
management by CONSAR. Section 4 deals with broader systemic issues such as valuation, market
benchmarks, performance reporting, diversification into new asset classes and institutional strengthening
and their implications for system efficiency. In all these areas, the initial performance of the system in its
first few months in operation is assessed and recommendations for future actions based on international
best practices in order to put the new system on a sustainable basis are presented. It should be noted that
the sustainability of the reformed pension system as a whole depends crucially on the financial performance
of INFONAVIT. A large share (about 40% for a worker earning the average wage, which is about 2.8
times the minimum wage) of social security contributions go to INFONAVIT.
2.     The investment regime
The Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro - the governing legislation for the reformed system
enacted in April 1996 - provides general principles relating to the investment management regime. Article
43 of the law authorizes CONSAR to establish and enforce rules of general application for the composition
and portfolios of the SIEFOREs. Article 47 of the law authorizes CONSAR to permit each AFORE to
manage and offer to its clients a variety of SIEFOREs with different portfolio compositions, provided that
each AFORE offers at least one SIEFORE whose portfolio is comprised "fundamentally" of securities
whose returns are indexed to the Mexican CPI.
2.1    Phase I - Introduction of the investment regime
On the basis of the above legal provisions, CONSAR issued a detailed set of regulations governing the
investments of the SIEFOREs in June 1997. The regulations governing portfolios of the first SIEFORE to
be offered by the AFOREs are summarized in Table 1 below.
These guidelines governing SIEFORE investments are quite restrictive from an asset manager's
perspective. At the broadest level, since only domestic peso denominated fixed-income (debt) instruments
are allowed, the regulations do not permit the contributors to the SIEFOREs to benefit from diversification
across different asset classes such as domestic and international equities, international bonds, and private
equity. The strong restrictions on investment in non-government debt instruments essentially imply that
most SIEFORE investment will occur in government bonds. In addition, the low level of development of the
government bond markets have the effect that the investments of most SIEFOREs are likely to be invested
in identical government securities. Most of these instruments have very short maturities, which causes a
duration mismatch between assets and liabilities.



Annex IV
Page 2 of 10
Table 1: Investment Guidelines for the first SIEFORE
(as % of fund)
Government debt                                                                          100
Equity securities                                                                         0
Eligible bank debt (issued or guaranteed by a commercial bank) (1) (2)                    10
Total eligible private debt (corporate and commercial bank) and development               35
bank obligations
L1A~~~t.ITS P~~~R iSSUER OR ISSN10
Investment in instrurnents issued or guaranteed by any single issuer as a                 10
percentage of SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer, as a                 10
percentage of the issuer's securities
Investment in any single issue as a percentage of such issue                              10
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by issuers belonging to the                15
same financial, commercial or industrial group, as a percentage of SIEFORE
assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by affiliates of the SIEFORE               5
as a percentage of SIEFORE assets
(1) Short-term obligations (less than one year maturity) must be rated in the top three rating categories by an authorized rating agency, long-term
obligations must be rated in the top two categories. CONSAR's Risk Analysis Committee will establish criteria for when a rating from a single agency
is inadequate and when commercial banks would be required to secure a rating from an additional agency.
(2) The securities of banks that have undergone intervention by the authorities are ineligible for investment by SIEFORES.
The rationale for the restrictive guidelines was the government's sensitivity to ensuring that the new system
got off to a sound slart and that any unexpected economic developments did not create a loss of credibility
for the system. The situation of the financial markets where the SIEFORE investments would be made was
(and to a large extent continues to be) less than fully satisfactory. One of the key sensitivities was to
disassociate the AFOREs from the mutual fund industry in Mexico, which has had a mixed reputation. The
restriction on investments in bank instruments was driven by the perceived fragility of the banking system,
especially as regards the capital adequacy of certain banks. The concentrated nature of the Mexican
financial sector also led to the strong restrictions on investments in related companies or entities. CONSAR
was also conscious of the need to simplify its own supervision during the transition to a new system, when
great demands were being made on all of its resources. Overall, in the early stages of operations of the new
system, ensuring the safety of the workers' savings and securing a reasonable rate of return was a greater
priority than pursuing an optimal asset allocation strategy.



Annex IV
Page 3 of 10
2.2    Phase II - Evolution of the investment regime
The experience of Mexico in actually operating under the investment regime outlined above highlighted
certain problems and constraints. As these have been identified, CONSAR has displayed considerable
ability and agility to respond to the needs of the evolving market. The main issues that have arisen
subsequent to implementation of the new system and CONSAR's attempts to fine tune the system by
addressing some of these issues through new regulations are discussed below. CONSAR has taken into
account the view points of the various market participants in formulating these regulations and their
modifications. A list of notifications issued and aspects dealt with by each notification is provided in Annex
III.
*   Investments in inflation-indexed bonds. A waiver has been granted temporarily to the
SIEFOREs on the earlier requirement that at least 51% of the SIEFORE investments be made
in inflation indexed securities (the requirement that at least 65% of all investments be in
government bonds continues). The reason for the waiver is that there were not enough
inflation-indexed instruments for the SIEFOREs to invest in. It is expected that the
government's own borrowing program from the market will provide these instruments over
time.
* Casht holdings. Earlier the SIEFOREs were not allowed to hold any cash balances. This
blanket ban on cash holdings created many operational problems for the SIEFOREs,
especially when there were any errors and omissions during the cash transfer process. In order
to simplify the process, the SIEFOREs are now allowed to hold up to P$250,000 in cash
balances.
*   Repurchase agreements. The requirement that SIEFOREs hold no cash also implied that all
the money received through contributions had to be invested immediately. Given the limited
number of securities that are allowed for investment and the fact all the cash came in on the
same day, the prices of the eligible securities were bid-up on the day that the cash was
received due to demand-supply imbalances. In order to allow SIEFOREs to better manage
their cash positions and time their investments, CONSAR has issued regulations allowing the
SIEFOREs to invest in repurchase agreements or repos. The amounts invested by a SIEFORE
in repos is restricted to the lower of: (i) the amount received in the most recent bimonthly
contributions; and (ii) 10% of the overall assets under management. For the next several
months, the second constraint will be binding. While the benefit of this regulation to the
SIEFOREs in liquidity management is significant. this regulation carries with it its own risks
and these are discussed in Section 3.4 below.
*  Asset valuation. CONSAR earlier issued guidelines that the valuation of the asset holdings of
the SIEFOREs should be done on a daily basis using a vector of prices published by the Bolsa
de Valores - the Mexican Stock Exchange. It was soon discovered that the prices received by
the SIEFOREs and CONSAR were sometimes erroneous (and amended later by the Bolsa on
the following day) or sometimes simply were not available. In this situation, fresh regulations
were issued to clarify that the SIEFOREs were authorized to use the most recent and accurate
price vector available to report valuations.
*   Performance reporting. Transparent reporting to the workers in the reformed system is critical
to ensure public support for the reforms and to establish credibility in the system. The law
goveming the new system commits the government to report both the returns on the



Annex IV
Page 4 of 10
investrnents by workers in the AFOREs and their contributions to INFONAVIT. In line with
this legislation, CONSAR issued regulations specifying the format in which the AFOREs will
report on the returns to the investors. The proposed reporting format has been provided in
Annex III.
* Others. CONSAR has clarified the earlier investment regulations so that the limits on various
investmnents should be adhered to at the time of investment. Changes in valuations due to
market movements do not constitute regulatory violations. This clarification is line with
international industry practice.
2.3    Current investments by AFOREs
Annex III provides details of the actual investments by AFOREs as of March 13, 98 based on the
investment regime discussed above. The AFOREs are largely investing in government bonds (CETES,
BONDES, and UDIBONOS) and the limit on private bonds (issued both by banks and corporates) is
currently not binding. Due to requirement that inflation-indexed bonds form a large part of the portfolio, the
AFOREs are investing proportionately more than the share of instruments available in the market in
UDIBONOS. Less than 0.25% of the aggregate investments are in bank securities and less than 1% of the
aggregate investments are in other private debt instruments. The average nominal annual rate of return
obtained by the AFOREs thus far is 21.5%, implying a real annualized rate of return of 6.2%.
3.    Compliance and risk management in the reformed system
In addition to providing the framework for the overall investment regime, CONSAR also has responsibility
to ensure compliarnce of the investment guidelines by the AFOREs. CONSAR also needs to ensure the
sustainability of the new system by getting a measure of, and then requiring the AFOREs to manage, the
risks to which the investors' funds are exposed. Once the fu.nds have been transferred to the AFOREs for
investment, the investors face several sources of risk. This section discusses various sources of risks and
methods to measure, monitor, and manage the risks.
At present, there is a significant overlap between the compliance and risk management functions of
CONSAR. As a regulator, it is essential that CONSAR perform the compliance function and provide
regulatory procedures to resolve violations with guidelines. As regards risk management, different
participants in the system have responsibilities to manage different risks. CONSAR should ideally focus on
system-wide risks and the AFOREs should be held accountable for portfolio and security level risks.
However, this is an area in which few market participants in Mexico have any extensive experience.
CONSAR's own experience is evolving and the Bank has played an active role in strengthening
CONSAR's capabilities by providing for system development and training through a Japanese PHRD
grant. At the present time, CONSAR is perforning most of the risk management functions (including those
that could potentially be performed by the AFOREs). Once the system is well established, CONSAR
should ideally take on a supervisory role and focus on monitoring the institutional risks of the system and
mandate minimum standards of performance from the AFOREs for the operational risks that each AFORE
faces. CONSAR should ensure compliance with guidelines by the AFOREs. These aspects are dealt with
in the recommendations set out below.
CONSAR has constituted two committees - the Comite de Analisis de Riesgos (the Risk Analysis
Conmmittee) and Comite de Valuacion (the Valuation Conunittee) at the time the new pensions law was
passed to oversee its operations in the risk management area. In order to achieve its compliance function,
CONSAR has put in place an extensive reporting system that obtains data from all the AFOREs. The
systems currently in place provide information to CONSAR about the specific investments being made by



Annex IV
Page S of 10
the AFOREs. CONSAR is also developing systems that would allow it to assess system-wide risks and
allow it to identify potential trouble spots.
3.1   Institutional risk
The primary risk is the institutional risk of the viability of the AFOREs themselves. The AFOREs have a
fiduciary responsibility to manage the funds in the best interests of the investors. The important issue of
safety of funds and protection from mismanagement by AFOREs has been addressed through various
regulations. The AFOREs have been established as single purpose companies capitalized separately from
any other members of any financial groups. The assets are held in the SIEFOREs - a separate legal entity -
whose assets are not available to meet the obligations of the sponsors of the AFOREs. CONSAR's role in
addressing institutional risks is part of its supervisory function. CONSAR has established an extensive
system of compliance monitoring in which AFOREs provide detailed reporting on their activities, financial
status, management etc. on a regular basis.
One issue of special concern at the institutional level is the potential consolidation of the industry. Strong
competition to attract affiliates has meant that all AFOREs incurred significant expenditures up-front on
advertising and sales forces. However, some AFOREs have not succeeded in attracting a sufficient number
of affiliates (see Annex III) and hence their financial viability is in question. This implies that a natural
consolidation may happen soon in the industry wherein smaller, less profitable AFOREs merge with others
AFOREs or are taken over by new groups interested in entering the business. CONSAR needs to ensure
that such a process is smoothly managed with the public adequately informed that their assets are safe
despite the consolidation. This would require both a public information campaign as well as strengthening
of CONSAR's own capacities to handle these issues.
3.2    Market Risk
CONSAR obtains information from all AFOREs on a daily basis on their positions in the individual
securities, the characteristics of the individual securities in terms of coupon, maturity, etc. and the
commissions paid by the AFOREs for these securities. Appropriate regulations to ensure such information
provision have been issued. CONSAR also collects extensive market information from on-line sources such
as Infosel, BBE and Bloomberg (on-line data providers). The data obtained through these sources cover
aspects such as government bond rates, details of new issues, ratings of private sector issuers etc.
Using the above information on the actual positions of the SIEFOREs and the market-wide information,
CONSAR is in the process of finalizing the use of two risk management software systems - RiskWatch
(developed by Algorithmics) and SIMAR ( Sistema para Manejar Riesgos- developed by JP Morgan) to
assess the risks implied by the positions of the SIEFOREs. The process of assessing the risk implied by the
positions of the various SIEFOREs involves assessing the sensitivity of the price of the securities (taking
into account correlations between various securities in the portfolio) to different market scenarios.
Weighting the sensitivity of the price of the instruments with the probability distribution of the occurrence
of the scenarios gives a measure of the value at risk. CONSAR would then be able to obtain risk reports on
each SIEFORE. CONSAR will also be able to obtain an idea of the aggregate risks across all AFOREs
since it has all the data.



Annex IV
Page 6 of 10
3.3    Credit risk
In addition to the above analysis that focuses on market risk, CONSAR is also engaged in monitoring the
credit risk of private sector instruments that have been allowed for investment by the investment
regulations. Currentlly, the guidelines allow the AFOREs to invest up to a total of 35% of their assets in
private debt instruments (such as certificates of deposit arnd corporate bonds) issued by banks and
corporates. Of this amount, AFOREs are allowed to invest no more than 10% of their assets in debt issued
by banks. All private instruments have to be rated a high investment grade(A or higher for short term and
AA or higher for medium/long term instruments) by one of the three approved rating agencies. At present
only four private banks (two domestic and two foreign) have outstanding short term debt with this high
rating. The number of corporates with highly rated debt instruments is also small. As of 13 March, 98 the
AFOREs had invested less that 1.25% of their aggregate portfolios in private debt instruments.
These private instruments carry with them credit risk which arises from the possibility that either the banks
or the corporates may default on their debt obligations. While, in theory, such default risk should be
factored into the price of the instrument, the lack of well developed capital markets implies that this may
not be the case. Hence, in order to ensure that the securities that the AFOREs invest in are adequately
secure, CONSAR monitors the credit risk of private instruments. CONSAR has done work on estimating
transition probabilities of private debt instruments moving from one credit rating to another. These
transition matrices are designed to assist CONSAR in assessing the credit risk of these instruments which
can then combined with the market risk factors to obtain an assessment of the overall risk of these
instruments. It must be noted that this is a function better performed by rating agencies as part of their
credit risk monitoring process and the AFOREs as part of their investment process. CONSAR should
therefore consider a gradual exit from such activities to more regulatory and supervisory activities.
3.4    Liquidity Risk
Managing liquidity risk is one of the major concerns of the SI]EFOREs in the current Mexican investment
environment and the structure of the cash flows in the reformed pension system. Cash comes in to the
AFOREs once every two months and essentially all of it (save some minor errors and omissions) comes in
on one day. Given the prevailing high real interest rates, the opportunity cost of holding cash is very high.
The investment regulations are quite restrictive and allow investment of the cash in a few instruments.
Finally, there simply are not enough instruments in some of the approved categories of investments for the
SIEFOREs to invest in. As a result SIEFOREs have already faced the problem of the market in the
approved instruments being tight (or cornered) by the brokers on the day in which the cash comes in.
Given these problems, CONSAR has recently issued new guidelines that allow SIEFOREs to enter into
repurchase agreements with banks using government securities as collateral. In this manner, the expectation
is that SIEFOREs can better manage their liquidity and have flexibility on their timing of entering into the
market while not having to sit on uninvested cash. In principle, this is a sound piece of regulation addressed
at managing liquidity risk. However, given the current state of the Mexican market it poses its own
dilemma.
In entering into a repo transaction, the SIEFOREs are essentially taking on bank credit risk, even though
the collateral is a government security. Given the fragile state of some of the Mexican banks, this issue is
critical. In any repo transaction, there is always an interest ralte risk. In the Mexican environment the credit
risk is likely to increase significantly at the sanie time as the interest rate risk rises. For e.g.: if a SIEFORE
enters into a repo agreement for 14 days (the maximum allowed now is 28 days) and in that time interest
rates rise significantly due to a systemic problem (interest rate swings of up to 200 basis points in a single
day are not uncommon), the SIEFORE ends up carrying high bank credit risk just as the incentives for the



Annex IV
Page 7 of 10
bank to return the cash it has obtained are significantly lower (the value of the collateral it has provided has
just fallen with the rise in interest rates). In the context of a fragile banking system, this issue needs to be
addressed. One option could be for the Central Bank to provide a repo window directly to the SIEFOREs
without going through the banks.
3.5    Recommendations
The main recommendations for future action by CONSAR in this area are:
*   Clearly separate the compliance function for the investment process from the risk management
function.
*   Institutionalize procedures to address systemic risks - especially procedures to resolve
AFORE mergers and bankruptcies.
*   Ensure that AFOREs have the capacity to take on the risk management function at SIEFORE
and security level.
*   Establish uniform standards of risk reporting by AFOREs.
*   Move to a supervisory role - ensuring compliance with guidelines and inspection of risk
reports from AFOREs.
* .Strengthen internal capacity to oversee risk management function and provide institutional
strengthening to AFOREs, if necessary.
*   Study the issue of the credit risk of repos and institute alternate mechanisms to provide a
liquidity window for the AFOREs.
4.     Systemic issues - interactions with the rest of the financial sector
The reformed pension system has extensive linkages with the rest of the Mexican financial sector (Annex
V) and these linkages introduce problems and issues that affect the entire system. These solutions to these
issues are more medium-long term in nature and involve coordinated action by CONSAR with other
financial sector regulators and participants in the financial sector. It is important to highlight these issues
and consider specific courses of action to address them in order to ensure that the investment of the pension
fund assets occurs in the best interest of the contributors.
4.1    Processing delays from point of payment to receipt by AFOREs
In the current system, there is a significant delay between the time at which the payments are made by the
employers, on behalf of the workers, to the collection agencies and the time at which the AFOREs actually
receive the money so that it can be invested. Currently, this time is about 9-10 business days. This implies
that for a significant amount of time, the payments of the workers are not invested and hence, are not
eaming any retums. While the cost of not being invested is high in almost any environment it is especially
so in an environment where the real interest rates on government instruments are about 5%1.
At a 5% real rate of interest, a worker loses approximately 4.8% of her real annual returns due to processing
delays of 10 days per contribution.



Annex IV
Page 8 of 10
It is critical that all the parties involved - CONSAR, IMSS, PROCESAR, the AFOREs, the banks through
the payments are made and Banco de Mexico all coordinate to reduce this time in which the cash is in
transit and hence idle to the minimum. This would improve the rates of return on the investments
significantly. The cost of not being invested is an opportunity cost in addition to any explicit transactions
costs that are charged by various participants.
4.2    Valiuation issues
All SIEFOREs are required to report the value of their asset holdings on a daily basis to CONSAR. On a
weekly basis, the value of the asset holdings is reported in the popular press by all SIEFOREs. All
SIEFOREs are required to mark their asset holdings to market daily i.e. the holdings are valued at the
prevailing market price (as opposed to other valuation bases such as cost price or book value) for the
respective instrument on the valuation day. A Valuation Committee has been set up with representatives of
CNBV, Hacienda, Banco de Mexico, CNSF, and CONSAR which establishes the guidelines for valuation
of various instruments. The brokerage houses, banks, mutual ifunds, and SIEFOREs are all required to use
the guidelines established by the Valuation Committee to imark-to-market their assets. The Valuation
Committee has established different guidelines for valuation of different securities - equities, fixed income
instruments, and repurchase agreements (repos). While the logic behind these guidelines is sound, there are
practical constraints in the application of these guidelines.
For fixed income instrument, while the concept of marking-to-market is well established, the main
complication that arises in the Mexican market is the lack of liquidity, and hence the absence of a clearly
market determined price, for several instruments. For e.g.: the greatest liquidity exists in instruments which
have maturities of 1, 7, 28, 90, etc. days. For any intermedliate date, the liquidity is extremely low and
hence market prices are essentially non-existent. In order to address this issue, the Valuation Committee
has authorized the use a price vector as a homogenous basis for pricing financial instruments by all market
participants.
The price vector is a polynomial function that is fitted to the market prices at the maturities that are traded
and available and extrapolated so that prices across all maturities are available (including those maturities
where there has been no trading and hence no market prices). Separate price functions are constructed for
different instruments such as CETES, BONDES, AJUSTABONOS etc. The price vector therefore uses as
inputs the traded market prices of securities at the most popular maturities and produces as outputs the
prices of securities with maturities at all intermediate dates. The Boisa Mexicana de Valores publishes
daily bulletins with the prices of various instruments for different maturities.
The SIEFOREs are required to use the daily outputs of the price vector in valuing their debt instrument
holdings. The advauntage of the price vector is that it provi,des a good measure of relative performance
across SIEFOREs (and other market participants with similar assets such as mutual funds) since all the
SIEFOREs use the same prices for valuing their holdings. The pricing function also solves the problem of
illiquid markets and lack of trades in many instruments. The disadvantage of the pricing function though is
that since the prices of instruments with "intermediate" maturities are not market determined and are the
outputs of a fitted model, prices of instruments with maturities very close to a traded instruments
sometimes are far from the market prices. The degree of "goodness of fit" of the model determines the
closeness of model prices to market prices. Hence the return volatility of the SIEFORE portfolios can be
significantly different from the market volatility.
Summarizing, the pricing function is a good basis for relative performance evaluation across SIEFOREs,
but is not fully satisfactory when the requirement is to cormpare performance relative to market. While
further refinements on certain technical aspects of the pricing vector may improve its performance, the



Annex IV
Page 9 of 10
underlying lack of liquidity in the market continues to be the core of the problem and needs to be addressed
in the long term. In the context of the SIEFOREs, this issue is tied into the issue of a market determined
benchmark for performance evaluation and this issue is addressed next.
4.3    Performance reporting and attribution - creating a benchmark
A critical issue related to several others such as risk management, performance reporting, and performance
attribution is that of having an appropriate performance benchmark. A benchmark is especially important
in the context of the Mexican system which does not provide any return guarantees to its participants.
Ensuring adequate performance is a prime responsibility of the government as the fiduciary of assets of the
workers. The lifetime switch option given to the workers in the old system further strengthens the case for
establishing a sound benchmark.
An objective, market determined benchmark is essential in assessing performance and in attributing
performance to specific manager decisions which add or detract value. A benchmark also provides the
ability to create a passive portfolio - one which assures the "market" return - similar to the widely known
stock market benchmarks in the US such as the S&P 500 index. At present, there is no market determined
benchmark for fixed income instruments in Mexico. In the present scenario, CONSAR calculates for
internal purposes, the performance of all the SIEFOREs and is able to rank them only in terms of relative
performance. However, this information has limited relevance in the absence of an absolute benchmark.
A benchmark is also integral for the purposes of assessing investment risk. Risk of a SIEFORE portfolio is
a measure of how different the returns of the SIEFORE are relative to the benchmark (measured by the
standard deviation of the excess returns of the portfolio relative to the benchmark). Since the benchmark,
by construction, removes market risk, any risk beyond the benchmark needs to measured and the excess
returns of SIEFORE portfolios should be assessed relative to this risk.
4.4    Establishing custodial services
Mexico currently has a central depository for its securities - the INDEVAL. However, it has no legal
provisions for a custodial system. The development of a custodial system would truly insulate the assets of
the workers from the AFOREs and provide significantly greater protection to the investors. While the legal
separation of the AFOREs from the SIEFOREs is a step in the right direction, the logical conclusion of this
process is the institutionalization of a custodial system in the country. Mexico already offers local custodial
services for its international investors, but does not have a provision for a similar system domestically. The
introduction of a custodial system would ensure safety of financial assets and has benefits for the capital
market development in general, much beyond its importance for the AFORE system. CONSAR could play
a useful role in assisting in the development of a custodial system by requiring the assets of AFOREs to be
custodied with independent custodians.
4.5    Portfolio diversification - one SIEFORE vs. multiple SIEFOREs
The pension law allows for the possibility that each AFORE may manage multiple SIEFOREs, while not
permitting more than one SIEFORE before July 1998. CONSAR and the private market participants have
discussed at length the issues in the expansion of workers' choice of SIEFOREs. The benefit of permitting
additional SIEFOREs - likely having a different asset allocation to that currently permitted and investing in
stocks and other securities - is to allow workers the maximum flexibility in tailoring their investrnents to
their desired risk-return profile. However, there are some important considerations that could place
constraints on the pace with which regulations are introduced to allow multiple SIEFOREs. The most
important problem is that of creating confusion among the workers with multiple SIEFOREs in a newly



Annex IV
Page 10 of 10
introduced system. It is not clear that adequate financial sophistication exists for correct choices to be
made. The government also needs to take into account the life-time switch option that it has given the
workers in the old system and the moral hazard associated with it for workers - especially those not
expecting a pension beyond the minimum guaranteed by the Government. Additional SIEFOREs will also
place additional demands on CONSAR, whose own capabilities are quite stretched at present. CONSAR is
presently studying the possibility of allowing multiple SIEFOREs and the financial as well as the
operational implications of such a decision.
4.6    Recommendations
*   Reduce the time taken between the payment of contributions by workers and receipt by
AFOREs. A study of the entire cash collection and transfer process, sources of delay and
methods to reduce the idle time of the cash should be conducted and recommendations
implemented.
*   Improve the secondary markets for trading of government debt which will improve the
enviroinment for investment by AFOREs. Such an improvement is a long term issue, but one
which the government should focus on to improve the entire financial system, part of which
are the AFOREs. The valuation issue will be a much smaller problem once secondary markets
develop.
•   Establish a market determined benchmark for performance evaluation and risk assessment of
AFORE performance. This would involve CONSAR interacting with private market
participants to develop and maintain a benchmark on an ongoing basis. Existing measures of
returns on Mexican fixed-income markets (such as J.P. Morgan's ELBI index) should be
examined for applicability.
*   Address development of the corporate bond market, strengthen rating agencies. These are long
term issues and the presence of the AFOREs could provide a Jemand driven solution to this
problem. This issue is related to many other financial market development issues such as
corporate governance, bankruptcy legislation, legal rights of bondholders, etc.
*   Implement a custodial system for AFORE and mutual fund assets. The custody issue has
important legal dimensions that need to be addressed. CONSAR would finalize a study on the
issue. On the basis of the study, necessary legislation may need to be drafted and/or CONSAR
shoulcd issue guidelines ensuring that SIEFORE assets are custodied safely.
*   Conduct a study on the introduction of multiple SIEFOREs and take a decision based on the
recommendations.
5.     Conclusion
As an overall assessment, the process of introduction of the regulations to govem investments of the
AFOREs has got off to a good start. While CONSAR agrees that the present investment regime is too
restrictive, it is in line with the regulatory structure of most new privately managed pension systems. As
expected, there are many issues that need to be addressed in order to put the system on a more sustainable
basis and to address the various risks in the system. It is important to appreciate that the system is very
new - it is less than a year old in terms of full operations. It is hence an evolving system.



Annex V
Page I of 8
MEMCO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
COM:PLEMENTARY FINANCL4L SECTOR REFORMS
The sustainability of the Mexican pension reform hinges on implementation of complementary financial
sector reform. A funded, privatized pension system needs adequate securities to invest in and appropriate
institutional structures to ensure the safety of those securities. The pension system is an integral part of the
overall financial sector and hence the performance of the pension system is linked to the health of the
overall financial sector. Success of the pension reform is therefore linked to reforms in the rest of the
financial sector. The Government recognizes this link and is undertaking a series of steps aimed at
strengthening various institutions in the financial sector.
1. The Banking Sector
Mexico's financial system continues to be dominated by commercial banks and their financial holding
companies. These banks were hard hit by the devaluation of the peso in late 1994. The ensuing crisis in
1995 revealed and deepened the already poor asset quality in banks' balance sheets. The Government has
taken steps to restructure the banking system and increase public confidence in the banking system, though
at high fiscal costs (estimated at over 14% of 1997 GDP). The sector has been opened up to foreign
investments, supervision and regulation have been improved and universal deposit insurance
(FOBAPROA) is now available. In addition, several systemic issues are being addressed including the
fiscal recognition of the costs of the banking crisis.
Table 1 shows the evolution of the Mexican financial system since the crisis in 1994. It is clear that the
domestic banking sector has suffered a sharp contraction, while foreign banks have increased their presence
in the market. The non-bank financial institution sector including leasing and factoring intermediaries and
foreign exchange trading houses has also contracted. Mutual funds have declined dramatically both in
numbers and in size of operations (see section 2).
In designing the new pension system, the Government took various steps to insulate the AFOREs from the
fragile banking system:
* The influence of the banks on the management of the AFOREs was minimized through the
requirement that all AFOREs be established as single-purpose separately capitalized companies. The
capital of an AFORE that is a subsidiary of a financial group is not available to meet the obligations of
other subsidiaries of the group.
* As an additional safeguard Article 22 of the Pension Systems Law provides that financial
intermediaries (including banks) or financial groups that are not in full compliance with applicable
capital standards may not be shareholders of an AFORE'.
* Under the Pension Systems Law, a shareholder that at any time wishes to acquire more than 10% of the
capital stock of an AFORE is required to make detailed financial disclosures to the CONSAR revealing
their sources of capital for the preceding five years.
Mexican Capital Adequacy Requirement (CAR) rules differ from those of the Bank for International Settlements
(BIS) in important ways, including the treatment of subordinated and mandatorily convertible debt into equity and
the revaluation of assets.



Annex V
Page 2 of 8
*  The extent of pension fund investment in the bankinrg sector was also limited by requiring that
SIEFOREs be permitted to hold a maximum of 10% of their assets in bank securities.
*  A further regulation requiring that this 10% investment be made only in bank instruments with a high
credit rating (AA or higher (or equivalent) for long-term debt and A or higher (or equivalent) for short-
term debt by any of the three approved rating agencies) ensures that the pension assets will be invested
only in high quality instruments. As pension funds increase in size and become significant institutional
investors, it can be expected that the competition amongt banks for AFORE investments will increase.
As the banking sector becomes stronger, more avenues for investment by AFOREs will open up.
Table 1: Mexican Financial System 1995-1998*
Privatized bazlk6               19            5 (1)
16            10
8             22 (2)
Sgora ewarehouses  28       28
Leasin,>   63                     53
62            44
Forcign                        49             36
Credit unions                  360            98 (3)
Afores     ion trust fluids)   None S         17
*Data as of February 27, 1998
(1) Includes banks still belonging to original investors. Excludes Bancen and Banpais being merged with Banorte, as
well as Atlantico and Promex, the first one recently nierged with Bital and the second one, currently for sale, or merged
with Bancrecer.
(2) Includes Inverlat and Banicrecer, together with Santander, BBV and Confia given that its control will be soon
transferred to foreign institutions.
Source: CNBV
As of March 13, 1]998, the AFOREs had invested an extremely small portion of their aggregate portfolios
(less than 0.25%) in bank instruments. This exposure is due: to the investment of about 3.8% of the assets
of one AFORE (Santander Mexicano) in bank instruments. The instruments invested in are high quality
short term commercial papers. Hence, the limit of 10% of assets of each AFORE's assets is not binding at
the moment. The main reason for the low level of investments, in addition to tight regulation, is that on a
risk-adjusted basis; Govemment bonds are currently the highest yielding instruments in Mexico.
2. Mutual funds
The Mexican mutual fund industry began operations in an environment of extremely high effective reserve
requirements (over 90%) imposed by the central bank in the early eighties. Since almost no cash was
available for regular bank lending operations funded by deposits, mutual funds were used as a source of
funding to circumvent the high reserve requirements. Hence, mutual funds in Mexico have traditionally
invested in illiquidl loan assets which, under normal circumstances, would have been funded with deposits.
In addition, the supervision of these funds was poor and disclosure and investor protection norms were lax.
The privatization of the banking sector in 1992 accompanied by the sharp drop in real interest rates ensured
that the market vaLlue of the funds appreciated sharply and hence the size of the industry increased. In the
wake of the 1994 peso crisis and sharply higher real interest rates, the value of these funds dramatically
declined and individual investors were hard hit. Lower resenre requirements meant that the banks could



Annex V
Page 3 of 8
fund loan operations from deposits and hence the importance of mutual funds as funding sources declined.
The industry has contracted sharply since 1994. In terms of real value of assets under management, it is
currently one-third of its size in 1994.
Mutual funds in Mexico are currently governed by the Ley de Sociedades de Inversion enacted in 1987.
There are four types of mutual funds in operation in Mexico - equity funds, debt funds for institutional
investors, debt funds for individual investors, and venture capital or private equity funds. The assets are
managed largely by banks and subsidiaries of financial groups. Supervision of mutual funds and mutual
fund operating companies are entrusted to CNBV, and all relevant information must be submitted to its
review. CNBV's supervisory responsibilities include registration of mutual funds, establishing disclosure
guidelines and on-site and off-site monitoring of compliance. If, as a result of inspection, a mutual fund or
an operating company is found not to be in compliance with CNBV's rules, CNBV has the right to
intervene or sanction the institution.
As of January 31, 1998 the Mexican mutual fund industry consisted of 345 mutual funds and 39 mutual
fund operating companies, with total assets under management of $13.8 billion with an investor base of
about 321,000 investors. Almost $11 billion of assets are invested in debt instruments and the balance in
equities. The industry has been characterized by volatility in both the number of investors and assets under
management. The trend has been that individual small investors have been declining and the funds have
become more institutional. The size of the industry, measured by the aggregate amount of assets under
management as a percentage of GDP, has been in the range of 3.2-3.4% since 1995. Mutual fund
shareholders in Mexican population is currently 0.3%, a fifth of the population with bank accounts. This
percentage has been gradually declining since the early 1990's. Performance data on an industry wide-basis
along with an appropriate comparative benchmark is unavailable.
The Ley de los Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro pointedly did not adopt the governance and supervisory
framework applicable to Mexico's mutual fund industry. The Government felt that since a handful of
financial groups control the bulk of the Mexican banking, securities and mutual funds industries, the
legal/regulatory framework for a mandatory contribution system should impose stricter rules for
independent decision-making and avoidance of conflicts of interest.
The introduction of the private pension system has had a salutary effect on the regulation of the mutual
fund sector in Mexico. Recognizing the weaknesses in the regulatory structure for mutual funds, the CNBV
is currently considering reforms which would bring the mutual fund regulation more in line with the
pension fund regulation. As part of the reforms, the CNBV is considering the introduction of a mutual fund
rating system along the lines of those published by Morningstar in the US. These ratings are proposed to be
done by the rating agencies (a discussion of the rating industry in Mexico is provided below). There is also
an active ongoing debate in Mexico among the regulators and the mutual fund industry about other reforms
that may be needed to encourage mutual funds as a viable savings vehicle. Deregulation of fee structures,
increased portfolio disclosure, standardized reporting norms, and stricter fiduciary standards such as
imposition of prudent man/prudent investor rules are some of the issues under discussion.



Annex V
Page 4 of 8
Table 2: Evolution of the Mexican Mutual Fund Industry
1 ~~rnds  81  ~~   87       89        89        91        90
152      165       170      172       174        170
Retail  110     114      115       115       111        108
institutional   -    42  51     55        57        63        62
Wntur~vait~1  57       56        54        53        48        46
iundM.ana~es   N46          43        46        42        39        39
ui  fimds      4,476    3,047    1,932   1 ,798       2,884     2,496
.ebt fhnds       21,143    9,061    5,443    8,218    10,552    10,857
Retail           13,560    6,591    4,187  l6,506       8,489      8,699
Insitutional     7,583    2,470      1,256    1,712     2,063      2,159
Venture Ca itul    285      288      254       372       349        376
21,640   20,451    13,521   1]5,390    21,830    24,016
.Dbfiid. 405,411  324,831  248,574   288,262   290,335   296,478
381,943  302,959  231,217   267,994   267,996   274,098
23,468   21,872    17,357    20,268    22,339    22,380
705      633      983       787       633        568
ha eRa 3.1070   4.9400   7.6842    7.8583    8.0833    8.3603
Source: CNBV
Amounts in millions of US dollars
3. Voluntary pension plans
Several Mexican corporations have established voluntary pension plans for their workers over and above
the mandatory social security programs. These schemes involve employee contributions of between 2-6%
with the plan assets managed by a bank or a brokerage firm. These plans are essentially unregulated,
although they are subject certain broad portfolio requirement by the SHCP. These plans have been
established mostly by large private sector firms as well as Mexican subsidiaries of multinational firms.
As the supervisor of the new mandatory pension system, CONSAR is exploring the possibility of bringing
the voluntary pension plans under its supervision. CONSAR plans to issue regulations by which a
voluntary pension lplan can be registered with CONSAR. Such registration will, at least initially, be
voluntary. Pension plans choosing to be registered need to be certified as actuarially sound and maintain
that status on an ongoing basis. Participants of plans that register with CONSAR and subject themselves to
its supervision have: significant advantages such as the ability to transfer their retirement accounts' at the
AFOREs to their private plan upon retirement and receive pensions under the terms of the voluntary plan.
As many voluntary plans provide pensions at an earlier age than the mandatory system, such flexibility is
attractive to the workers. The AFOREs are also permitted to establish a separate sub-account for the
workers for voluntary contributions in addition to the mandatory portion. Table 3 shows the voluntary
contributions by AFORE received till March 1998.



Annex V
Page S of 8
The response to CONSAR's initial efforts at registering voluntary pension plans has not been enthusiastic.
Out of the estimated 1000 private pension funds in operation only three have registered with CONSAR as
of March 13, 1998. The most plausible reason for the lack of interest is that many are actuarially
underfunded and the firms would require to first fund the plans before being eligible for registration. The
Government needs to take a serious view of this situation and take appropriate action to ensure safety of the
workers funds in voluntary pension plans. As a first step it would be useful to conduct a study to get an
assessment of the size of the voluntary pension plans, their actuarial funded status, and investment patterns.
Suitable policy actions can be taken on the basis of such a study. CONSAR has also undertaken a drive to
register all the practicing actuaries in Mexico under the assumption that greater knowledge of the state of
the voluntary pension fund industry can be obtained by having a formal relationship with the actuaries.
Thus far, 26 of the 40 qualified actuaries have voluntarily registered themselves with CONSAR. The type
of information that they will provide CONSAR is being discussed.
4. Development of Long-Term Instruments and Financial Services
Long-term government debt markets. With the reform of the social security system, there is a pool of
funds available for the first time that needs to be invested in order to provide a stream of pension payments
to the workers upon their retirement. Pension liabilities are typically long term and the natural asset to
hedge such liabilities is a long duration instrument such as long term bonds or equities. Mexico's
Govermnent bond markets are poorly developed and provide mostly short-term (less than one year
duration) bonds. The composition of trading in the secondary markets also provides an indication of the
short-term nature of the market. Over 95% of all trades - both in the Bolsa and over-the-counter - are in
overnight securities. There is almost no liquidity in long-term instruments. While historically the cause of
this underdeveloped state may have been the chronic inflation, it is essential that now the Government
considers development of this market segment.
Corporate debt market. The heavy presence of the banking sector in Mexico's economy has traditionally
implied that the level of intermediation has been very high. Most corporate lending was from banks, that in
turn financed these assets from deposits. The presence of institutional pension funds provides a natural
alternate source of funds for high quality corporates to raise funds. Development of a sound corporate debt
market would provide another investment vehicle for the pension funds. The investment regulations permit
investment up to 35% in rated private debt instruments. However, the actual investment by the SIEFOREs
in private instruments is very small (less than 1% up to March 13, 1998). There are several reasons for the
low level of investments in private sector instruments.
One of the major problems is the lack of adequate highly-rated corporate paper that qualifies for AFORE
investment. Table 4 provides details of the corporate debt market. CNBV's internal analysis shows the
extent of problems in timely payment of principal and interest for many of the corporate debt issues. In
general, the instruments range in maturity from 5-10 years, with an average maturity of 7 years.
The secondary market for most issues is very illiquid (or non-existent). A very small number of issues are
rated investment grade (out of a small universe of rated securities) and hence the market in high quality
private debt instruments is small, relative to the market for Government paper. A second - though smaller -
problem is the differential fiscal treatment given to private debt issuers vs. Government debt issues. The
withholding tax of 2% on private debt issues often makes the after-tax rate of return on private, more risky
issues less than Government paper. Yet another problem is that the debt market does not provide an
adequate compensation for risk in terms of differing level of interest rates for different credit risks. There
are currently several low rated corporate securities in the market that yield a lower return that higher rated
securities. The market is driven more by the name of the issuer rather than the structure of the specific



Annex V
Page 6 of 8
issue. This lack of appropriate risk-return relationship further discourages investments in debt issues. There
are also some doubts in the market on the objectivity of the raLtings.
Table 3. Cumulative Voluntary Savings [a] by AFORE
(September 1997 - March 1998)
/ :$~pI~mber   October   November   December  January   5ebruary~ ~  March
GENESIS                   483      647        1,063       1,495     1,495       1,830       1,938
ZURICH                      0         0           0          0         0           0           0
TEPEYAC                     0     3,598       3,598       4,975     4,975       5,661      8,334
XXI                         0       235         235       1,050     1,050       1,803      2,264
BANORTE                     1    13,196      14,344      22,777    23,203      40,710     63,562
BANCRECER               4,164    11,058      11,846      20,640    20,640      34,480     39,763
PROFUTURO                 169     6,479      19,636      45,786    47,748     103,909     140,780
ATLANTICO                790      3,150       4,256       6,708     7,048      8,623      12,050
CONFIA                      0      686          686       1,363     1,363       9,980     10,527
SANTANDER               5,106    18,315      19,343      34,779    36,984    119,3561    135,496
PREVINTER               2,372     6,295       6,916      10,409    11,183     21,2581     28,003
BITAL                   1,002    11,514      13,634      28,441    31,720    250,8231    413,670
CAPITALIZA                  0        0            0          0         0 ]          I          0
GARANTE                   106    26,084      26,174      51,128    52,7251    86,969i    I 1.8,278
INBURSA                  738      7,225       7,365      43,357    43,572    119,0111    I 48,962
BANAMEX                   513    19,368      26,235      61,812    62,942     91,9981    137,422
BANCOMER                4,707    67,604      68,595     149,499   156,740    728,1411    874,740
TOTAL                  20,151   195,455     223,9271   484,220   503,389   1,624,5521  2,135,790
Source: CONSAR 1998
[a] figures in Mexican pesos
Housing mortgage market. Long term securitized housing mortgages are a good investment vehicle for
pension funds which have long-term liabilities. The availabil:ity of long term investors should also help to
stimulate the housing market. However, the quality of the investments depends to a large extent on the
availability of appropriate instruments and efficiency of the mortgage market. The Governm. ent is taking an
active role in restructuring the existing housing finance market. It is in the process of making the operations
of FOVI more marlcet-oriented and the operations of INFONAVIT more transparent. The Bank is working
closely with the Government on both these institutions. One of the major hurdles to securitization in
Mexico is the presence of instruments whose returns are not market determined. For example, the interest
rates on some mortgage instruments are a function of the minimum wage in the economy, which is a
Government detemiined policy variable. Development of an efficient housing mortgage market requires the
introduction of new market-based mortgage instruments, transparent and consistent origination standards,
presence of a mortgage insurer, and a strong rating industry whose ratings are viewed as objective and
reliable.



Annex V
Page 7 of 8
Table 4. The Market in Private Debt Issues
(as of January 31, 1998)
X  1    30     100.0%     34   1 100.0% 1 ~~~2,671,873.2      100.0%    l
X 1 22 73.3% 26 1 76.5% 1 ~~~~2,281,226.5                      85.4%
W 1 ~~~~~8               26.7%      8      23.5%/  390,646.7            14.6%
26     100.0%     28    100.0%       1,047,690.7      100.0%
Wioi 9  34.6%     10     35.7%       792,024.3        75.6%
17     65.4%      18     64.3%       255,666.5        24.4%
45     100.0%     72    100.0%    33,139,951.2        100.0%
101    100.0%     134    100.0%    36,859,515.1       100.0%
76     75.2%      108    80.6%      36,213,202.0      98.2%
25     24.8%      26      19.4%      646,313.1         1.8%
Publie  issed88    87.1%      117    87.3%      22,552,696.0      61.2%
13     12.9%      17      12.7%     14,306,819.1      38.8%
*Figures in thousands of pesos
"*Problems of timely payment of capital and interest as detenrined by CNBV.
Source: CNBV
While these problems are not unique to Mexico and are widespread across many developing financial
markets, there is a need to address these issues in Mexico as part of the financial and capital market
reforms complementary to the pension reforms. A sound debt market is critical to long term capital
mobilization and assessment of corporate risk and hence sound allocation of capital.
Financial intermediaries. Credit rating agencies, custodial services, third-party performance assessment
services (similar to Morningstar and Lipper in the US) are some of the other players in the overall financial
infrastructure that are required for maximizing the economic benefits of a privatized pension system.
Mexico currently has three rating agencies, a central depository that offers partial custodial services, and
no independent perfornance assessment agencies. The Government should examine these segments of the
financial infrastructure and take appropriate policy actions to assist in their development as part of the
overall development of the financial sector.
Rating agencies. There are currently three credit rating agencies in Mexico - all subsidiaries of US-based
credit rating agencies. These are (i) Standard & Poor's, (ii) Duff & Phelps, and (iii) Fitch2. The rating
methodology and systems have been adapted for the Mexican market from those in the US. the rating
industry began in 1989 and has developed slowly, given the volatility in the debt markets in Mexico. At
present, the rating agencies rate mainly short term commnercial paper issued by corporates and banks. Other
2 Fitch is in the process of acquiring 100% control of a domestic credit rating agency - Fitch-Clase - in which it
currently has a minority shareholding. This acquisition is expected to be completed by June 1998.



Annex V
Page 8 of 8
market segments covered include corporate debt issues, structured instruments such as mortgage backed
securities, securitizations of assets such as credit card receivables, and debt issues of insurance companies.
As of March 1998, albout 180 debt issues (out of a market of about 475 issues) had been rated in Mexico.
Since January 1, 1998 CNBV requires all debt mutual funds to be rated and this has provided another
source of business for the rating agencies. They are rating both the portfolios of the mutual funds and the
mutual fund companies3. Multiple ratings of the same issue is becoming more popular in Mexico and
should help investors obtain a better perspective of the risks of the instrument. However, the practice of
"rating shopping" - an issuer looking for the best ratings at the lowest price - is prevalent and hence colors
the perceptions of the market on the objectivity of the ratings. CNBV is also considering further regulation
of the rating agencies, although the nature and extent of the regulation is still unclear. The Government
should be aware that substituting ratings in place of regulations requiring greater corporate transparency
and disclosure is likely to politicize ratings and hence reduce their effectiveness as a tool for greater market
efficiency. Rating agencies should be allowed to comment freely on credit risks and provide a credible and
objective source of risk analysis. The investment guidelines for the new pension system require the
AFOREs to invest only in rated private debt instruments (subject to a cap of 25% of assets). The
performance of the pension system therefore depends on the sound development and credibility of the rating
agencies.
Custodial services. A system of custody provides safety for the financial assets including cash of
investors and legally and physically separates the entity making the investment decision from the control
over actual financial assets. In a private pension system such as that in Mexico, a custodial arrangement
would ensure that the AFOREs only make the decision on where to invest the worker's contributions but
would otherwise have no legal control over either the cash contributions or the financial instruments at any
time. Mexico currently does not have a domestic custody industry4. INDEVAL - the central depository -
provides certain services similar to a custodian. However, the financial intermediaries still retain legal
control of both the cash contributions and financial assets. Regulations governing the AFOREs separate
their assets from all other members of the same financial group. While these regulations are sound, a
formal custody arrangement would enhance the safety of the assets. Development of custodial services
would assist many other segments of the financial sector such as mutual funds, insurance companies, and
voluntary pension funds.
3 It is important to note that in the US none of the three agencies are involved in rating mutual funds - whether the
funds invest in debt or other asset classes. Hence, it is not clear that the rating agencies have either a comparative
advantage or the technical expertise in this particular line of operations.
4 International investors in Mexican securities can obtain on-shore custodial services through branches of some
large multinational banks.



Anne-x VI
Economic Indicators
Page I of 6
Mexico
Second Contractual Savings Development Program
Economic Indicators
a " '/ ' SE           E                 -..
.d'..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~.......
National accounts
(as 5,% CDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                100.0     100.          . 10(0  103()      100.0        10(.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture                           6.7        6.3        5.7       5.5        6.1          5.8        5.8        5.8        5.8        5.8
Industry                             28.1       26.8      269        27.9       28.4         27.7       28.3       28.7       28.9      29.0
Services0                            65.2       66.9      67.4       66.6       65.5         66.5       65.9       65.6       65.3      65.2
Total Consumption                      81.7      82.9       13.1       775       74.6          74.7       773       77.7       76.6       75.8
Grossdomesticinvestment               23.3       21.0       21.7       198       23.3          249        23.5      23.5       24.8       24.8
Government investnment                3.8        3 8       3          3.3        3 8          3.1        3 1        3.2        3.4       3.4
Private investment                   15.8       14.8       15.6      12.8       14.2         17.3       18.4       19.3       20.4       20.4
Increase in stocks                    3.7        2.4        2.4       3.7        5.3          4.6        2.0        1.(        1.0        .0
Exports (GNFS)b                        15.2      15.2       16.8       30.4       32.5         3.X8       31.2       31.7      32.3       34.2
Imports (GNFS)                         20.3      19.2       21.7       27.8       30.3         30.5       32.0       32.9      34.0       34.7
Gross domestic savings                 I8.3      17.        16.9       22.5      25.4          25.3       22.7      22.3       23.5       24.3
Grossnational savings                  16.6      15.        14.7       19.2      22.7          23.3       20.8      20.3       21.2       21.7
Memorandum itemts
Gross domestic product              3636(9    413196    420)776    286296    329475         396605    428879    405167    503547    751890
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per            3491)      381X)     4)9))      332;)      364)         37(8)      413l)      4540      4820       6590
ca.ita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1993
prices)
Grossdomesticproductat              3.6%       2.t)%     4.4%      -6.2%       5.2%         6.9%       5.5%       5.2%       5.2%       5.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income               3.8%       1.9%      4.5%      -7.9%       5/3%         6.60%      5.2%       5.1%        . 5 1%    5.3%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic productat            1.6%       (1(.%      2.5%      -7.8%      3.4%          5.1(0%    3.6%       3.3%      3.3%        3.6%
market prices
Total consumption                   2.3%      -0.3%       2.4%    -            1.1%         4.3%       6.1%       3.7%      1.6%        3.5%
Private consumption                 2.6%      -0(.4%      2.7%    -            10.5%        4.3%       6.3%       3.6%      1.4%        3.5%
_,                                                                           {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Con)inued)



Annex V'7
Economic Indicators
Page 2 of 6
Mexico
Second Contractual Savings Development Program
Economic Indicators (Continued)
Public finance
(as %  or GDP at current
market prices)d
Currentrevenues                       23.7      23.1       22.8       228        23.2         228        21.4       21.4       21.6       21.6
Currentexpenditures                   18.6       19.5      19.2       19.6       19.4         195        19.        19.        19.        18.5
Current account surplUs(+)            50        3.6        3.5        3.2        3 7          3.3        2.3        2.2        2.5       3.1
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                    3.6        3.0       3.7        3.2        3.7          3.8        3.9        40        4.2        4.2
Overall Balance                        1.5       0.7       -0I         11.,1     (t.ll        -(.5       -1.6       -1.8       -1.7      -1.7
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current marke t            26.9      27 6       2'i 7      3046       28.3
prices)
Growth ofM2 (%)                       22.8      14.5       21.7       33 3       26.2
Private sector credit growth        158.4      182 5      132.8      -99 7      914.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1993 =100)
Merchandise exportprice              103.6     IIXI.II    1(48.1     114.0      115.9        117.3      118.7      121.3     123.9      140.9
index
Merchandise import price              98.6     14K).(     102.5    1S I8.1     1448.5        11(.8      113.0      115.6      118.5     134.8
index
Merchandise temns oftracle          1115.()    I48)44     11)5.3     1445.5    llu68         1(05.9     105.0      104.9      104.6     104.6
index
Real exchange rate                   1107.4    1441.5    145.3       152.)      134.5        112.9      112.9      112.9      112.9     112.9
(US$/LCU)'
Consumerprice index                 15.5%      9.8%       7.1%      34 9%     34.4%         185%       14.2%      12.0%/o    10.2%      5.0%
(% growth rate, period average)
Consumerpriceindex                  11.9       8.44/'     7.10%     51,74      2710%        15.7%      13.0%/o    11.0        9.5%      5.0%
(% growth rate, end of period)
GDP deflator                        14.4%!,    9.5%       83%       37.49%    29.6%         17.4%      14.0%      12.0%       10.0%    5.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP componenits estimated at factor cost, as a % ol (I)]' it lactor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonifactor services."
c. hicludes net unrequited transfers excluditig official capital
d. Consolidated non-financial public sector
e. "LCIJ" denotes "local currency units." An increase in iJS$/.CICI denotes appreciation.



Annex VI
Economic Indicators
Page 3 of 6
MEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
FII   CURRENCY                 1996   1997        91:Jan 21 Jan 22  Jan,23  Jan,26  Jan 27
Spot. Peso/$ Noainal Exchange Rate                                                          S 4                         -  135
Period Average            7.59   7.92                                                      S.  A2- -l
End-of-Period             7.90   8.07            8.3(0  8.28  8$32   8.29   8.31           ? S                      -_         125 -
1996   1997          Aug    Sqp    oct   Nov   Ibc                7.4     - -..                  IS-
7.2 --.....
ReallExchangeRate          124    111            113    III    120    115    III
Index (Nov 94 = 100)                                                                            _  g                   c
W    INTEREST RATES   1996   1997                  Ikc30 9S:Jan6 Jan 13  Jan 20  Jan,27
-~_    _ .                                                            1n          (I;OF)
(Annual figures quoted are end-of-year closes)                                              74
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES:                                                                          a'
Cetesa28day)               25.7   18.8           18.8   18.4  1I.7   17.4   17.3  28                             ---- ----
(Primary Auction Rate)                                                                      26                     -------------
REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS (GOVERNMENI'SiCrOR):                                                  22  ...* -      -              ' ,     t - .
Ovemight Repo Rate        25.0   20.5           2(0.5   18.8   18.5   18.0   16.7           20  -- -\-
16
INTERBANK MARKET:                                                                                     . =
TilE                      28.6   20.1           20.1   19.6  2(1.1   19.7   19.2          ,                 ._ _ 
[      STOCKS                  1996   1997        9#:Jan2) Jan22  Jan23  Jan26  Jan27                         Bak00Ro  Ind      9
Bolsa Index Peso Terms   3361   5229            4618  4550  4543   4527   4583              5700      .750
Cuanulative Adv/Deeline                         37.4   35.4   35.2   34.7   36.4            5100                           700- -  70
since 12/31/96                                                                         .g480o0 ,-,.---v 6f0
.a450  -     -     -----        0
i~4200    -------   -  --       550
3900  -- - - - - - - - - - - -
Bolsa Index $ Terms        426    648            557    549    546    546    552           _3_  ,  .j- - .  500
Cunulative Adv/Deeline                          3(1.8  29.(1   28.3   28.3   29.6           3o                             450
since 12/31t96
\  _   alas  -  -  -    I    .



Annex VI
Economic Indicators
Page 4 of 6
ZIMEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
E:   MONEY                                                                                                 Ne Dm.ak C-et
1998
40- 
BANCODEMEXICO:                1996   1997                Jan2   Jan9  Jmn]6  J3m23          80       O- - .
(billion Pesos)                                                                               0
Monetay Base                    84    109                  109   102    103   94            ---  -
Net Domestic Credit             34    -51                  -55    -63    -63    -72   -.      0
MONEY SUPPLY:                 1996   1997               27-p  OC         Nv    tec                           M
-   -                             _. (V _Ml
MI (billion Pesos)             233    308                  260   265    278   308            2 280- _-           _-_
(Year-on-Year % Change)       40.7   32.5                 37.5  37.8   36.7  32.5          ,8200
~240-- - - -                      -
M4 (billion Pesos)            1166   1506                 1394   1434  1451   1506           220-
(Year-on-Year % Change)       32.5  29.1                  33.3  33.6  32.2  29.1             202
COMMERCIAL BANK CREDIT OUTSTANI)ING:
To Private Sector              511                         472   475   494    504
(billion pesos)
D    INFLATION                     1996   1997        97.Aug  Sep   (Oc    N<-v  !bec
--CM31. .W(.-.
CPI                                                                                         .1 
29--          - - - - - - - - - - -
(Month-on-Month Change)                             0.9    1.3   0.8    1.1    1.4           27           .
(Year-to-Date Change)         27.7  15.72          10.6  12.0  12.9   14.4   15.7            25 -
(Last3Mos, Annualized)                             11.1   12.7   12.4   14.5  14.1                            . -.
PPI                                                                                          19 -                           _
(Month-on-Month Change)                             0.8    0.9    1.1    1.5   0.4           17 ;   -------------- -
(Year-to-Dawe Change)        25.33  10.64           6.5    7.5    8.7  10.3  10.6    ,           ;
(Last 3 Mos, Annualized)                            8.6   10.6   12.0   14.7   12.2             _.
D       INTERNATIONAL                                                    1998                                G-. a. R..r
RESERVES                  1996   1997                 Jan2   Jans9  J.n 16 J  2)           30 .....0.................... ..................
(billion S)                                                                                S _20
Gross Int Reserves            17.5  28.0                  28.2  28.5   28.3  28.6             5
Net Int Reserves               6.3   19.8                 20.3  20.4  20.3  2(0.4                 a
D    TRADE                           1996               97:hJn-Dc          97:1-1c_
YYOY            OY   MOMl
b$  S (h $S   % Chg   h$   i  hIyL X 'h y                                       P
10.3.--  -- - - - -- - - -- - - -
Exports                       96.0  20.7          110.4   15.0   9.9   16.0    2.8                                        Is
Oil                         11.7  38.4           11.3  -2.7 ().8  -3(0.3  -22.3             0.0---- -D-i
Manufacturing               80.3  20.7           94.7   18.0    8.7  23.7    5.6
Maquila Exports           36.9  28.7           45.1   22.2    4.1   31.8    1.4         S      .-
Others                       4.0  -11.4           4.3    6.4   (1.4  11.1   10.6         _          .........=-----
Imports                       89.5  23.5          109.8  22.7   1(0.6  32.4    6.5            s.5              --------------
ConsumerGoods                6.7  24.8            9.3  39.9    1.1  5(1.1    9.0 (                 '
Intermediate Goods          71.9  23.1           85.4   18.8    7.8  28.5    2.8      *      .0 --- ' -
Maquila Imports           30.5   16.5          36.4  19.3    3.3  36.9    2.8              75________________________
Capital Goods               10.9  25.6           15.1   38.2    1.7  41.8  25.2                                        C =
Trade Balance                  6.5                  0.6         40.72                                        -     -



Annex VI
Economic Indicators
Page S of 6
r   MEXICO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS    I
LI BALANCE
OF PAYMFENTS          1995   996            96111   IV    971    11    III
(billion )                                                                                16.0
14.0 -
Ourrent Account           -1.6   -1.9           -0.8   -1.5   -0.2   -1.3  -2.5           o2.0 _
loD -3
Current Account           -0.6   -0.6           -1.0   -1.8   -0.2   -1.3  -2.5             s.o -
as % of GDP                                                                              6.0
.E4.0-
Capital Account           15.7    3.3            1.2    2.0    1.X    3.1    5.6           0.0
of which:                                                                               -2.0
-4.0
Direct Foreign Invest    9.8    7.6            1.7    2.7    1.8   3.0    5.2                g                           E
Change in Reserves        -9.6  -1.8            -0.2   -1.9  -2.5  -1.7   -2.7            a 13c-  Ac Curl   tC.latAow    |
(- means an increase)
E1   FISCAL ACCOUNTS (NON-FINANCIAI. PUBIJC SECIOR)                                           __
1994   1995   1996          96:IV   97 1    It    III                  O,.ll; Fi.. -/GDP
(Year-to-Date, % ofClDP)                                    (billion Potoo 0. I
Budgetary Revenues        22.9   22.9  22.8           185.3  166.4  16X8  166.2           0.0
(Excludes Revenues froti Privatization)
Oil Revenues             64A   8.1    8.7          64.42   65.5  67.5  62.4           °o    - _
Non-Oil Revenue         16.5   14.8   14.1          120.9  101.0  101.2  103.8
.0.2-
Budgetary Expenditures    23.0  22.9  23.0           207.1  154.6  16(1.8  167.3                  _
of which: Interest       2.3    4.6    4.3          45.4  25.6  21.6  26.9             90.3      4          5        1996
Non-Budgetary Items        0.1    0.0    0.1            2.1    2,8    1.3    1.1
Overall Balance           -0.3    (.0  -0.1          -22.10    9.1    9.3   (L1
FZ   GROwnr                    1994   1995   1996         96.1V   97?1      1    IIlI  lR-I G-t Rg.
to
GDP Real Growlh Rate       4.5  -6.2    5.1             7.6    5.3    8.8    8.1 
(Percent Change fron Previous Year)                                                       6
Consjanption             4.4  -8A    2.5              4.0    2.9    6.3    6.2          4
Investrent               9.9  -34.8   27.5          49.4  24.1   33.2  24.0            L
Exports                 17.4  33.0   18.7           20.5   18.6  15.3  17.1             -2 _
IrnpoFts                20.5  -12.8  27.8           35.2  2X.7  27.0   23.2            -4
-6
.s __  __._
GDP Real Orowth Rate                                    1.9    3.1  1.4                                       it
(Seasonally Adj Quarterly Growth Rate; Source: INE0lI)                                      ___



Annex VI
Economic Indicators
Page 6 of 6
MEX]CO: MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
, PRODUCTION
AND  SALES           95:[)ec 96:Dee        97: ul   ug . p    Oct   Nov                 130 ............ ,0
(Year-on-Year Change)                                                                     123
Industrial Production     -3.6   11.2          10.3    8.1   12.5   10.4  S.6    -             --0 
Manufacturing           -2.2   11.2           11.2    7.4   13.3   10.8   9.8      -          -- 10S    ---------3T
Construetion           -12.8   15.0           9.7   11.5  13.1   11.2   6.9              9    3          ........-.   7
90
Wholesale Sales                   9.2           3.4    5.7    8.3    7.6    4.7                  -
Retail Sales                     -1.9           6.7    9.3    8.7   11.0  10.6         _         Indn iprod. '  -  - Ravi15Sdi
Z  EMPLOYMNENT
AND WAGES               1995   1996        97Aug   Sp             Nov   DIC
Unemployment Rate          5.5    4.1           3.5    3.4    3.2    3.3    2.8           S.5
4.5                      - - - - -
Mfg Enployment            -7.5    4.8           5.5    5.3    5.3                         4.0
(Year-on-Year Change)                                                                     *_
Mtg Average Real Wages  -21.6  -5.0             0.3   (1.8   2.3                          3.0  . _
(Year-on-Year Change)
]   EXTERNAL DEBT   1994   1995   i996                  96:1V   97:1   1    Ill                      kbt .d  bt bS-i
70 .................... ...................... --   55
Total Debt Outstanding    140.0  16.5.9  157.1                                                           %50
(End-of-Period, billion $)                                                               60                              45
401
MLTDebt                   96.8  112.6  113.8                                                                             35
Private Non-Cuaranteed  17.5   18.6  20.3                                          |  a40           ------ -  --------  30 8
Public and Pub Guar     79.3   94.0  93.4                                                                              25
ST Debt + IMF Credit    43.2   53.3  43.3                                             | 0                                200
20              ,               IS .. e,.,1
IBRD Debt                 13.0   13.8  12.7           12.6   11.7   11.7   11.6       |                          g    g
IMF Credit                 3.9  15.8  13.3            13.3   10.3    9.7    9.4                     DdO(GOP
U.S. ESF Net Drawings      0.0   12.0    3.5           3.5   ()(    (l(    (8(             -     __       rvicdein. C;NFS +CT
D      DOMESnC DFBT jNON-F;NANCIAI. PUBLIC SFCh1)R)
1994   1995   1996                                          rk                   G     -r
Estimated Net End-of-Yeair Stock                                                         250          O2_Aai_           40
(% of GDP)                13.8    9.8    8.5                                              260 0                         35
Excludes debt issued for bank                                                             240         . .        .-,
and debt support programs                                                                 220 .          - --          - 30 a
. 200 -- - - - -- -   -- - - -
.1                             25
GOVERNMENT DOMESTIC SBCURITIES OUTSTAND)ING:                                             180 -.-----          -----------
600. _20
1994   1995   1996         97:Nov                                40                              a
120......... ...1
Total (billion Pesos)     264    168    150            263                                00                             0
Ajustabonos                 30     41     26            16
Bondes                       8    36      60            83                               fTTTAL -  =  - INDEXTOT|
Cetes                      41      48     59           130
Tesobonos                  -30    -53      0             (I                           Indexed Dcbt  Ajustabonos
UDtbonos                     0      0      5            34                                            + Tesobonos + UDlbonos



Annex VII
Balance of Payments
Page I of 1
Mexico
Second Contractual Savings Development Program
Balance of Payments
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)'                   55387      61305     71184      89207    106779        122239    133804    147586    162481    256775
Merchandise FOB                  46196     51886      60882     79542      96000       110573    120953    133388    146763    231003
Imports (GNFS)3                   73617      76916     91616      81454     99700        120893    137223    153264    169476    260851
Merchandise FOB                  62129     65367      79346     72453      89469       106343    12112      135651    150299    23211
Resource balance                  -18230    -          -20432       7753      7079          1346     -3419      -5678     -6995      4076
Net current transfers               111      15 fl7      2527       2206      4531         4827       5191       5583      6004       8633
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance           -24438    -23399    -29662       -1577     -1922         -6274    -          -15153    -18178    -23244
(after official capital grants)                                                                     11901
Netptivateforeigndirect             4393       4389     10973       9526      7619         11000     11000      11500     12000      13000
investment
Long-term loans (net)                -22       2494      4628      16329      4314         6739       3536       7614      6114       9151
Official                            619         24      -598      10334     -7793         2708      -3322      -4532     -3536        109
Private                            -641      2471       5226       5995     12107         4031       6858      12147      9650       9151
Other capital (net, including      21087     22457      4330    -14688        8242         2500      -3000      4000      -5000      -5000
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesb                -1020      -5941     18391      -9591     -1768        -8965      -5635      -7961     4936       -3907
Memoranduma items
Resource balance (%of               -5.0%     -3.9%      4.9%       2.7%       2.1%         0.3%      -0.8%      -1.2%     -1.4%      -0.5%
GDP at current market
prices)
Current account balance             -6.7%     -5.8%      -7.0%     -0.6%      -0.6%         -1.6%     -2.8%     -3.3%      -3.6%      -3.1%
% of GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1993 prices)
Merchandise exports                 8.2%     16.4%       8.7%     23.7%      18.7%        13.8%       8.1%      7.9%       7.7%       5.9%
Merchandise imports                23.2%      3.8%      18.4%    -13.4%      23.0%        19.6%      11.7       9.5%       8.1%       5.9%
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.



Annex VIII
Extenal Capital and Debt
Page I of I
Mexico
Second Contractual Savings Development Program
External Capital and l)ebt
Total debtoutstandingand             112265    131572    141hK)O6    1(611W4    157125        163il23    16331)0   165467    168796  1993257
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)"
Netdisbursements (USSm)                2164      131041      6411)     2n451      -4971          5904        277       2167       3329       8961
Total debt service (TDS)              20()12     24218      21443      2(,117     4n7Xn        31113      35614      40)509     41239      56302
(US$m)
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                            1;4.1       197.)    i1 113       1714       141 6    1    23 9      113 2      1(04.1      96.7       72.8
TD0/GDP                               3(1.9      32.(,      33.3      Sx 0        47 7         41         31 1       35.6       33.5       26.5
TDS/XGS                               34.1       3h.4       2814       2x i       3n1,1        242        24.7       25.5        23.6       206
Concessional/TDX)                      I          I.         1 2        I) ()                   (111 lI l   1))                   0.         0( oo
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRDDS/publicDS                       II.        155         (I)       131 s        I Xl          )   9         9X     X6         116       6.0
Preferred creditor DS/public          22.9      3.3.2       31 )       27.4       I' S         213        292        333        227           .1S
DS (%)5
IBRDIDS/XGS                            3 1        2.'9       2 ,        2 s        2 1           1 :        1 6        16         1.4        0.9
IBRDTDO(I.JS$m)                    11966      12322      13101X     LIX23      12Sn1x        1211       1231)5     12162       11506      1127
Share of iBRD portfolio (%)           12.        1I I       I         1 2 ))
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                  67         53        133         13
Equity and quasi-equity Ie              64        3n         21          1 2
MIGCA
MlG A guarantees (lISS)                  I)        II          n          I)         n
a. Includespublic andpubliclyguairainteed debt. prvaite illiguaraoiticed, ' ,It 'IMI; credits iod iOet shl,t-
term capital.
b. "X(3S' denotes exports of giods and services, ncludioig worker,,' Iemitl,,,res
c. IPreferred creditoms are delined as 11RI). 11 >A, the rcgwnal multi latou I dv 1vvIpieInt banks, the MI:. and the
Bank for International Settlements
d. Includes present value of guarantees
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types ofb,,th lain and equity instlumvnts



Annex IX
Status of Bank-Group Operations
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
Statement of Loans/Credits
Schedule D (MOP) as of January 31, 1998
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Amount in US$ million (less cancellations)
Loan/Credit Fiscal Year    Purpose                          Bank       IDA    Undisbursed  Closing Date
202 Loans(s) closed                                        21,730.35      0.00       743.71
28240         1987      UJRBN l'RNSIlR'I' 1                90.98      0.00         2.76        6/30/98
3358A          1991     VOC TRNG( SCTR                     18.99       0.00        17.01       6/30/98
3359A          1991     MININ(T SC"I'R                     41.51       0.00       41.05        6/30/98
3419A          1992     IRRIG SCTR                       1iX.63        0.(X)      100.63       7/31/98
3475A          1992     SCIENCWI;'TlCI 1                    6.50       0.00         3.47       6/30/98
3542A          1993     LABOR MAIZKI"1'& IPROD.            11.25       0.00        4.91        6/30/98
35590         1993      MEDIUIM CITIS 'I'RANSI'           200.00      0.00        161.26      6/30/00
36280         1993      HWY RI113 & SAI:Y'l'Y            480.00      0.00       205.60       6/30/00
3543A          1993     TRNSI'R'I' AIR 1'()1.1. C()N       79.96       0.00       79.96        6/30/99
3704A          1994     ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI              119.36       0.00       117.90       6/30/00
3722A          1994     PRIM.EDIJC.II                     254.36       0.00      238.54       12/31/99
37510         1994      WATER/SANI'I' I                   350.(X)     0.00        187.81       9/30/98
37500         1994      N. B(:)RIDI'IR I ENVIRIo)NM        94.60      0.00        65.36        9/30/01
37520         1994      SOLID WAS'IIE 11                    6.94      0.00          1.71      12/31/99
3778A          1995     RAINFEI) ARlEAS DI )'VI.()         41.96       0.00        34.18       6/30/99
3838B         1995      FINANCIAI. SEC 'l.A.               13.80       0.00        13.80       6/30/99
3790A          1995     SEC()NI) I)ECEN'IRAI.I'N          303.39       0.00      243.00        6/30/99
3805A          1995     TECI-I EDIWJf'RAIN(1              187.49       0.00       183.50       9/30/00
3838A          1995     FINANCIAI SE'C 'I'.A.              5.32       0.00         4.93       6/30/99
39120         1995      ESSENI Al. SoCIAI SNR            5(N).00     0.00         18.29      6/30/98
39370         1996      INFIRA. I'RIVAI'Z.TN 'TA           30).X)     0.()        22.25       6/30/99
39430         1996      BASIC IILTI.I II                  310.00      0.00       249.20       6130/01
40500         1996      WATER RESO IJRCIES MANA           186.50      0.00        178.84       6/30/02
41010         1997      RURAL HIN. MK'I'S 1'.A.            3(.(X)     0.(0        30.00        6/30/00
41520         1997      AQUACUIT.'URI'                     40(.)       ().        40.00       12/31/02
42060         1997      FEI)ERAI. ROAI)S MOD)/.TN         475.(X)     0.00       475.00        6/30/04
41370         1997      COMMIJNI'I'Y FORE'STRY             15.0)      0.00         14.50       6/30/02
42760         1998      RUJRAI I)IEV. MARG.ARI.A          47.(X0     0.(0        47.00        6/30/03
Total Number of Loans = 28                                  4,040.53               2,782.46
Total***                                      25,770.88         0
of which rmpaid                               10,653.44        0
Total held by Bank & II)A                     15,117.44        0
Amount sold                            92.34
of which repaid                        92.34
Total Undisbursed                                                     3,526.16



Annex IX
Status of Bank-Gronp Operations
Page 2 of 3
MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of Decemiiber, 1997
(In US Dollar Millions)
Held                             Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco                  22.20    (.(0    0.00   102.80     22.20     0.00     0.00   102.80
1994/96/98          Aurun-Heller            0.00    2.80    0.00    ().(X      0.00     2.80    0.00     0.00
1990/92/96          BANAMEX                62.60             0.(X)   98.07    60.20    0.00      0.00    98.07
1989/90             Banca Serfin           16.(X)    0.0     0.0    (0.((     16.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997                Banco Bilbao MX         0.00    0.00   3(.(N)    0.(0      0.00     0.00   30.00     0.00
1992                Banorte-Arancia         3.66    0.0      0.(X)    (.(0     3.65     0.00    0.00     0.00
1992                Banorte-SABROZ          3.00    (.00    (.(X)    (.00      3.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1995/96             Baring Mex. FMC.        0.0     (.18    0.(X     0.00      0.00     0.17    0.00    0.00
1995                Baring Venture          (1.(X   9.(9    0.(X    0.0X       0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00
1987/91             CALICA                  8.01    (.(0(    0.(00    0.       8.01     0.00    0.00     0.00
1991                CEDETEL                 3.44    0.77    8.(X)   18.73      0.94     0.77    8.00   1&73
198                 Cemex                   2.78    (.O(    0.(0     1.50      2.78    0.00     0.00     1.50
1995/97             Cifunsa                39.[0    0.00    0.00    23.00     39.00     0.00    0.00    23.00
1997                Comercializadora        6.X     0.00     0.(X)    7.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1990/91             Condumex                9.31     (X)    0.(X)    3.82      9.31     0.00    0.00     3.82
1994               (-TAPV                   4.67    0()l    2.53    ((X)       4.67    0.00     2.53     0.00
1993                Derivados               7.70    (.(1    0.(X)   15.(5      7.70    0.00     0.00    15.05
1991/96             GIBSA                  3U.(X)    0.00    10.00  1(X).0(   30.00     0.00    10.00   100.00
1993                G IDESA                12.5(0    8.()(    0.00   25.50    12.50     8.00    0.00    25.50
1996                GIRSA                  3.(X)    (.()(   1(.(X)  115.(X)    7.50    0.00     2.50    85.00
1993                GOTM                    1.45    0.((    0.((     1.54      1.45    0.00     0.00     1.54
1989                Grupo FEMSA             5.00    9.43    0.(X)     (X)      5.00     9.43    0.00     0.00
1997                Grupo Minsa            20.X    1(X)   0(.(X)   3(.(X)     20.00   10.00     0.00    30.00
1992/93/95/96       Grupo Posadas          26.44    5.00    5.(X)   50.05     26.44     5.00    5.00    50.05
1992/96/97/98       Grupo Probursa          0.00    10.37    0.(X)    (.(X)    0.00    10.03    0.00     0.00
1994               Intereeranic            13.(X    0.(X)    6.(X)   12.25    13.00    0.00     6.00    1225
1993                Masterpak               8.40     (X)    0.(X)   16.20      8.40     0.00    0.00    16.20
1984/87/94/96       Metalsa                 0.(X)    0.00    6.00X   0.(10     0.00    0.00     6.00     0.00
1995                Mexplus Puertos         0.(0    3.04    (1.0()    (.(0(    0.00    3.04     0.00     0.00
1997                Mxc Partners Trs        0.(X0   20().(   0.00    (.O()     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1996                NEMAK                   ()      (.(X)    6.(0    (.(X)     0.00     0.00    6.00     0.00
1990                Petrowel                6.5(0    (.((    3.(X)    3.50     6.50    0.00     3.00     3.50
1988/94/95         Sigma                   18.18    5.0(1    0.(X)   22.4(0   18.18     5.00    0.00    2240
1997                TMA                     5.10    O.00    0.00   1(1.4(0     4.56     0.00    0.00     8.54
1992                Toluca Toll Road        8.07    0.0      0.(X)    (.(0     8.07    0.00    0.00      0.00
1991/92             Vitro                   (.(X)   1(0.17    0.00    0.00     0.00    10.17    0.00     0.00
1991                Vitro Flotado          13.22    0.00    0.(X)    5.53     13.22     0.00    0.00     5.53
1987                VULICA                  9.(X)    (1.00    0.00    0.(1X    9.(X)    0.00    0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:             395.23    93.85   86.53   662.84    361.28   69.41    79.03  623.48



Annex IX
Status of BIank-Group Operations
Page 3 of 3
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                Altamira               17.8(0    (.()    1.)00   38.00
1997                Banco Bilhao MX        8().()    0.00    0.00     0.00
1997                Chia-ras FMC            0.0(     0.02    0.00     0.00
1997                Fondo Chiapas           0.00     0.(0    5.00     0.00
1998                Forja Quimmco          13.0(0    3.(0    0.00    13.00
1997                GEN. HIPOTECA           0.0()    2.50    0.00     0.00
1998                Grupo Calidra          12.0(0    6.00    0.00    10.00
1998                Merida III             3(.((     0.00    0.00    90.00
1998                ZN Mex FMC              (.0(     0.05    0.00     0.00
1998                ZN Mxc Eqty Fund        0.0(1   20.00    0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          152.80    31.57    6.00   151.00



Annex X
Mexico at a Glance
Page I of 2
Mexico at a glance
Latin    Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                  America    middle-
Mexico     & Carib.   income          Development diamond'
Population mid-1996   (millions)                              93.4         485       479
GNP percapita 1996   (USS)                                   3,640        3,710    4,540                   Life expectancy
GNP 1996  (billions US$)                                     340 0        1,799     2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population  (%)                                                 1.9         17        15                                             Gross
Laborforce  (X)                                                 28         2.3        18        GNP                                  Gross
iper                                 primiary
Most recent estimate       (latest year avaiable since 1989)                                    capita                           enrollment
Poverty: headoount index    (% of population)
Urban population   (% of total population)                      75          74        73
Life expectancy at birth   (years)                              72          69        69
Infant mortality  (per 1,000 lie brths)                         33          37        35                  Access to safe water
Chid malnutrition   (% of children under 5)
Acoess to safe vwater  % od populatkin)                         87          80        86
lliteracy (% of popuation age 1S+)                              10          13         13      .     .        x_,
Gross primary enrollment    (A of school-age population)        111         110       107           "'.  Mexrco
Male                                                                                                     Upper-middle-incone group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975      1985        1995      1996
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                                  94A4     183 6       287.0     334.7     j
Gross domehstic investmenVGDP                       22.3      20 8         19 7      20 9               Openness of economy
Exports of goods and servioes/GDP                    5n7 15 5c 217                  22o4
Gross domestic savingstGDP                          19.0      25.9        22 7      234
Gross national savings/GDP                          17.2       221         19.4      20.7
Current account balance/GDP                         -4.4       04          -0 6      -0 6
Interest payments/GDP                                1.2        51         3.9        3.3       Savings                          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                      19.3      52.8        57.8       470                            /
Total debt service/exports                           41 1     50 7        33.8       42.8
Present value of debt/GDP                              .         ,        55 5
Present value of debtlexports                                            216.3                               Indebtedness
1975-85   1986-96       1995        1996  1997-05        i
(average annual growth)                                                                      |            Mexico
GOP                                       4.6       2.4       -62           51        49     1
GNP per capita                             1.7       0.3      -9.3         37         67                  lJpper-midIe-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices                 11.7      81        333         16.6        77
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                        1975       1985        1995      1996         Growth rates of output and investment(%)
Agriculture                                         10.8       87          5.7        5.9       40
Industry                                            29.9      33.5        27 9      28 8        20
Manufacturing                                      21.9      23.5       20.8       215         o
Services                                            59.4      57.8        66.4      65.3
Private consumption                                 71.6      64.8        66 9      665        -40
General govemment consumption                        9.3       93          104       10 1
Imports of goods and services                        9.0       104         188       199 9                                       GDP
`1975-85   11986-96       195       1996 
(average annual growth)                                                                        Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                          31       06            10        12        40
Industry                                             4.7      29          -7.8       104           I                                       1 
Manufacturing                                       4.1     3.2         .48        10.9       20
Services                                             48       2.3         -6.2        3.4        0 -
Private consumption                                  3.7       31         -9.5        2.3               91    92    9s    94    9         90
General govemment consumption                        8.3       1.6         -1.3       3.7
Gross domestic invetment                             1.7      49         -34.8      27 5       -40
Imports of goods and services                        2.0     14 4        -26.8      27.8                        Expats          lmpcrts
Gross national product                               4.2        26        -7.7        5.7
Note: Sectoral shares in the National Accounts are expressed are percentages of GDP at factor cost
*The diamonds showfour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wihits income-group average It data are missing, the diamond vill
be incomplete.



Anne-c X
Mexico at a Glance
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985        1996      1996
Domestic prices                                                                            Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                               40
Consumer prices (ave.)                            15.2     57.7       34.9      39.0      30  -
Implici GDP deflator                              15.5     56.5       37.9      31.5    20
Government finance                                                                        10
(% of GDP)                                                                                 0
Cunrent revenue                                    ..      31.4       22.8      22.8              91   92    93    94    95    99
Current budget balance                             ..      -1.6        2.7        0.1              '"     GOP det.      ""CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..    -6.2          -0.1     -0.3
TRADE
1975     1985        1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                             Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                *-   22,931      53.363    65,495      70,09
Fuel                                              ..   14,767      8,423     11,654     60.000
n.a.                                          ...  .5Q000  
Manufactures                                      ..   6,245      40,379    49,800       40. W
Total imports (cif)                                ..   14,533      46,274    58,964      300       i.
Food                                                    1,082      5,335     6,657      20,000
Fuel and energy                                                                          10000
Capital goods                                     ..    3,165      8,697    10,922           0
Export price index (1987=100)                      ..       125        103       105             90   91  92  93  94  9a  96
Import price index (1987=100)                      ..       99          81        79                    aExports      I mports
Tenms of trade  (1987=100)                          ..      127        128       133
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     19865       1S95      1996
(millions US$)                                                                            Current account balance to GOP ratio
Exports of goods and services                  6,066    27,726      63,028    76,274      (%)
0                                -
Imports of goods and services                   8,466    19,915    55,275    69.195                                        99 55   96
Resource balance                               -2,400      7,811     7,754     7.079      1
-2 iX1
Net income                                     -1,783   -8,998     -13,290   -13,532      -3
Net current transfers                             59      1,986      3,960     4,531      4
Current account balance,                                                                  -5
before official capital transfers            -4,124       800      -1,576    -1,922     -6
Financing items (net)                           4,327    -3,223      11,167   3,696      -7
Changes in net reserves                          -204     2,423      -9,591    -1,774     -3
Memo:
Reserves including gold  (mill. US$)            1,893    4,997      16,847    19,433
Conversion rate  (localUS$)                   1.3E-02       0.3        6.4       7.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986        1996      1996
(millions USS)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           18,231   96,867     165,743   157,384
IBRD                                          1,123    4,034      13,823    12,568                              A
IDA                                              0         0          0         0            30067 7                5380.2
Total debt service                              2,613    15,293     23,556    35,860                                        c
IBRD                                            116      597       2,372     2,372
IDA                                              0         0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                            D
Offtcial grants                                  8        78          31         .                                       20341
Official creditors                             381       809      10,343    -8,192                                        E
Private creditors                            3,365       -831      5.586    11,639                                     14E          I
Foreign direct investment                      609       491       9.526     7,619              F                      14687.7
Portfolio equity                                 0         0         519    2,995            61061.9
World Bank program
Commitments                                    310       928       2,142       187      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  188       840       1,732      1,051      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            39       335        1.41     1,409      C - IMF                        G - Short-term |
Net flows                                       150      505         321     -359                                                   1
Interest payments                               78       262         961      962
Nettransfers                                    72       243        -641    -1,321
Development Economics                                                                                                         8/18/97



ANNEXXI
Page I of 2
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARYDATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country
to prepare the loan:           9 months
(b)   Project prepared by:           Ministry of Finance (SHCP), CONSAR,
and INFONAVIT
(c)   First presentation to the Bank:  September 1997
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:    May, 1998
(e)   Completion of Negotiations:    May, 1998
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:  October, 1998
Section II:  Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
Actions taken before Board Presentation:
1) Regulatory framework: CONSAR issued key regulations in the areas of: (a) disclosure; and
(b) administration of individual accounts still in the Central Bank, including (i) regulations
on the outsourcing of information to workers and (ii) related fees;
2) Operation and efficiency of new pension system: (a) CONSAR has authorized AFOREs in
a timely fashion; (b) CONSAR has issued general rules governing affiliation contract; (c)
affiliation of at least 60% of potential IMSS's workers; (d) CONSAR has issued regulations
relating to the switching among AFOREs; (e) CONSAR has issued regulations relating to the
functioning of the centralized collection and record-keeping system; (f) generation of CURPs
for at least 25% of potential affiliates; (g) the computerized reporting system (SUA) was
developed and implemented; (h) CONSAR has issued regulations on the maximum fees to be
charged by PROCESAR for processing, reconciling, and disbursing information on the
administration of individual accounts; and (i) CONSAR has finalized a study comparing
commissions charged by AFOREs in a standardized format;
3) Transfer of SAR92 balances: (a) CONSAR, SHCP, and Banco de Mexico (Central Bank)
have issued detailed guidelines to make operational transfer of SAR92 balances; and (b)
transfer of at least 20% of accumulated assets in SAR92 accounts at the Central Bank have
been transferred to AFOREs;
4) Investment policies and risk management: (a) CONSAR has issued necessary
modifications and changes to initial investment guidelines relating to investments in



ANAEXX[
Page 2 of 2
inflation-indexed bonds, cash holdings, repurchase agreements, and asset valuation; and (b)
CONSAR has established two committees to oversee its operations in the risk management
area;
5) Supervision and enforcement: CONSAR has issued regulations establishing the
methodology for the valuation of eligible instruments;
6) Disability and life (IV): (a) the Insurance Law was modified to incorporate the changes to
the provision of IV benefits under the reformed Social Security Law and to make operational
the provision of such benefits by authorized private insurance companies; (b) CNSF issued a
number of regulations to make operational the new scheme; and (c) a Department in charge
of supervision of pension-related insurance (Direcci6n General de Supervisi6n del Seguro de
Pensiones) was established within CNSF;
7) Update of fiscal costs of transition: the Government has completed the 1997 update to the
sensitivity analysis of the fiscal costs of transition and the evaluation of actuarial
methodologies and the data base;
8) INFONAVIT: (a) INFONAVIT, SHCP and CNBV signed an agreement on March 27, 1998,
and approved by INFONAVIT's Board of Governors on March 30, 1998, to restore
INFONAVIT to financial health within a five year period through a major operational and
financial restructuring program; (b) INFONAVIT has accepted new accounting standards to
be issued by CNBV which are consistent with the rules applicable to commercial banks for
mortgage loans; (c) INFONAVIT has stopped accruing, and created provisions against,
interest and indexation of non performing loans; and (d) INFONAVIT has provisioned for its
non performing loans as required by CNBV and based on the findings of the external
auditing firm and CNBV's inspections;
9) Preparatory work for the Public and State Pension systems (a) finalization of actuarial
and financial valuation of ISSSTE and initiation of detailed evaluation of feasibility and
fiscal costs of alternative reform strategies; and (b) finalization of initial survey of data bases
and actuarial and financial situation of 32 pension systems at the State level and approval of
standardized valuation format.
The following policy actions on INFONAVIT would be taken prior to effectiveness:
(a) establishment of an appropriate system of external financial controls beginning in 1999;
(b) submission of a revised table of maximum credit amounts agreed with CNBV and approved
by INFONAVIT's Board of Governors; and
(c) review of credit rules and loan rationing mechanism, and if necessary, submission of
revised rules to INFONAVIT's Board of Governors.



