Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19676
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CSDP II)
Loan No. 4343-ME
December 22, 1999
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure (FPSI)
Country Management Unit 1
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUI VALENTS
Currency Unit     =         Peso (P)
US$1.00           =         P $9.5 (June 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIA TIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP               Adninistradoras de FondQ de Pensiones
(Pension Fund Administrator - Chile)
AFORE             Administradora de Fondos para el Retiro
(Pension Fund Administrator --Mexico)
AMAFORE           Asociacion Mexicana de Administradoras de Fondospara el Retiro
(Mexican Association of Pension Funds Administrators)
BANOBRAS          Banco Nacional de Obrasy Servicios Pziblicos, S.N. C.
(National Bank of Public Works and Services)
CNBV              Comisi6n Nacional Bancariay de Valores
(National Banking and Securities Commission)
CONSAR            Comisisn Nacional del Sistema de Ahorropara el Retiro
(National Commission of the Retirement: Savings System)
FOBAPROA          Fondo Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorr,
(Bank Fund for Savings Protection)
FOVI              Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda
(Housing Financing Trust Fund)
FOVISSSTE         Fondopara la Vivienda de los Trabajadores del ISSSTE
(Govemment Workers' Housing Fund)
FSRL              Financial Sector Restructuring Loan
FSRP              Financial Sector Restructuring Program
FTAL              Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
IMSS              Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social
(Mexican Social Security Institute)
INFONAVIT         Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda de los Trabajadores
(National Workers' Housing Fund Institute)
ISSSTE            Instituto de Seguridady Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado
(Institute of Security and Social Services for Govemment Workers)
IV                Seguro de Invalidezy Vida
(Disability and Life Insurance)
IVCM              Invalidez, Vejez, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Muerte
(Disability, Old age, Severance, and Death Insurance Coverages)
PROCE$AR          Pension System Operator
RCV               Seguro de Retiro, Cesantia en EdadAva.nzaday Vejez
(Old Age and Severance)
MPG               Minimum Pension Guarantee
NAFTA             North American Free Trade Agreement
SAR'92            Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro
(Retirement Savings System of Individual Accounts, operating from May 1992 to January 1997)
SHCP              Secretaria de Hacienday Credito Pdblico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SIEFORE           Sociedaes de Inversi6n Especializadas de Fondos Para el Retiro
(Specialized Pension Fund)
Vice President:                      David de 'Ferranti
Country Director:                    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:                     Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager:                        P. S. Srinivas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page number
Preface  ..........................................................                       i
Evaluation  Summary ...........................................................          ii
Part One           Contractual Savings Implementation Assessment
I.   Background.                                                                         1
II.                Program Objectives.                                                   2
III.               Bank Support: A Phased Reform Approach.                               3
IV.                Achievement of Program Objectives.                                    5
V.                 Major Factors Affecting the Program .23
VI.                Program Sustainability .24
VII.               Bank Performance .26
VIII.              Borrower Performance .28
IX.                Assessment of Outcome .29
X.                 Future Operation .29
XI.                Key Lessons Leared .30
Part Two    Statistical Annex .33
Appendixes         A. Matrix of Compliance with Policy Actions
B. Memorandum Recommending Loan Disbursement
(without attachments)
C. Borrower Contribution to the ICR (SHCP)
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






1.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan No. 4343-ME)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Contractual Savings
Development Program (CSDP II) Adjustment Loan in Mexico, for which Loan No. 4343-
ME in the amount of US$400 million was approved on June 11, 1998 and made effective
on December 14, 1998.
This single tranche loan was fuilly disbursed upon effectiveness, December 14, 1998,
which was within the time frame for effectiveness envisaged at the time of Board
presentation of CSDP II.
The ICR was authored by Mr. P. S. Srinivas, Financial Economist of the Latin America
and Caribbean Region, and was reviewed by Mr. Fernando Montes-Negret, Sector
Leader, FPSI for Mexico. The borrower provided comments that have been incorporated
into the ICR and are reproduced (translated and unedited) in the annexes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during April 18-24, 1999 and continued in
subsequent missions for other financial sector work in Mexico. The report is based on
material in the project file, interviews with key participants, and findings from some of
the Bank's other financial sector operations in Mexico.






ii.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND CONTRACTUAL SAVINGS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan No. 4343-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    A key recognition by the Mexican Government in the aftermath of the 1994 peso
crisis was the importance of raising its shallow pool of domestic savings to be able to
better cope with future economic stress situations. Acting on this recognition, the
Government introduced a package of social security reforms as an important element of
mobilizing long term domestic savings. These reforms were also aimed at addressing the
expected actuarial deficits that the public pension system would soon incur due to a
combination of demographic trends and unsustainable benefits. The Government
considered the time opportune to simultaneously create a basis for improved domestic
savings and reform of the public pension system when it was still affordable.
2.    The Government's Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP) was the
first nation-wide pension reform supported by the Bank. The Bank's support to this sector
began with the preparation of an economic report in 1990, which provided a detailed
analysis of contractual savings issues and set out some policy options for reform. The
Bank's participation in this sector accelerated since late- 1994 with the provision of advice
and technical support in the area of pension reform and capital market development. This
work culminated in a decision to support the Government's reform efforts through a series
of single-tranche adjustment operations. The first lending operation in support of the
CSDP was approved by the Board on December 17, 1996 for US$ 400 million. The Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) co-financed this first phase with a two-tranche loan
of $300 million. The ICR for this first project judged the outcome of CSDP's first phase
to be highly satisfactory. CSDP II was the second single-tranche loan which supported
the second phase of the reform of the contractual savings sector. A loan of $400 million
was approved on June 11, 1998.
Program Objectives
3.    The Bank's support to the Government was based on an agreed medium-term
strategy and CSDP II was the second in a planned series of operations to support the
Mexican pension reform program and complementary financial sector reforms. The
program has five long-term aims: (i) to increase the equity, efficiency, and sustainability



of the old age security system and to gradually expand effective coverage; (ii) to establish
a financially viable pension system; (iii) to limit the fiscal impact of the current pension
system and ensure transparency of the fiscal costs of transition; (iv) to enhance the
development of capital markets by stimulating greater private financial intermediation,
and to increase the array of financial instruments and contracts available; and (v) to raise
the level of institutional savings and improve the allocative efficiency of domestic
savings.
4.    The first phase of the CSDP focused on the establishment of the legal, regulatory,
and institutional framework for the reform of the country's old-age social security
system. CSDP II concentrated on the actual implementation of the reformed pension
system including: (a) implementing, consolidating, and fine-tuning the reformed system
for private sector workers by: (i) ensuring a flexible and responsive regulatory framework;
(ii) initiating operation of the reformed system and increasing its efficiency; (iii)
transferring SAR92 balances from the Central Bank tc individual AFORE accounts; (iv)
fine-tuning investment policies and improving risk management; (v) strengthening
supervision and enforcement; and (vi) initiating paymenlt of disability and survivors benefits
by private insurers; (b) updating estimates of the fiscal costs of transition; (c) deepening
reforms to INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns on the housing sub-account; (d)
advancing in the technical preparatory work for the reform of the public pension systems;
(e) sustaining public confidence through education and information; and (f) advancing in
the implementation of complementary financial market initiatives.
Implementation Experience
5.    The first phase of the CSDP had a highly satisfactory implementation experience'.
The Mexican Congress approved legislation establishing the new system in December
1995. A second legislation in May 1996 set out the structure and powers of CONSAR,
the regulator of the new system and laid out the guiding principles for the establishment,
operation, and supervision of the new private pension fund managers (AFOREs) and the
pension funds (SIEFOREs). The new system came into effect on July 1, 1997.
6.    The implementation experience of the second phase supported by CSDP II, while
satisfactory, has been a more qualified success. CSD:P II had two major components of
reform - one component dealing with implementation of the newly privatized pension
system and the other dealing with reforms to INFONAVIT - the housing fund to which
5% of workers' wages are channeled. Together the reforms were aimed at placing the
retirement income component of Mexico's social security system for private sector
workers on a sustainable basis.
The Implementation Completion Report for CSDP I (Report No. 17771, May 5, 1998) rated the project
highly satisfactory.



iv.
7.    The implementation of the first component can be judged to have been highly
satisfactory. The private pension system has been placed on a sound footing through
satisfactory implementation of the Retirement Savings System Law, although further
work on several aspects of the system is needed. The second major component, dealing
with reforms aimed at improving the administrative structure, operations, and credit
policies of INFONAVIT met with mixed success. The reforms were executed to the
letter of the Government's commitment and to the satisfaction of the Bank as required for
the disbursement of the loan. Subsequent to loan disbursement however, INFONAVIT
decided not to immediately implement the reforms approved by its Board. Even after a
delay of almost a year, INFONAVIT has thus far only partially implemented the reforms
originally approved in the resolutions of its Board. In the view of the Bank Team that
prepared the loan, the delay in and partial nature of the implementation of the reforms by
INFONAVIT has undermined the fundamental spirit of the agreements reached between
the Bank and the Government. Expected improvements in INFONAVIT's financial
performance were, therefore, also delayed. It is unclear at this stage that the reforms to
INFONAVIT contemplated in the loan will either be implemented fully or if
implemented with substantial modifications, will have significant impact on its
operations. Given the expected expansion of INFONAVIT's lending program in 1999,
delays in adopting the reforms are likely to further damage its already weak financial
status. It is important to keep in mind that the implementation of the reforms lay beyond
the ability of the Government alone, due to the degree of autonomy enjoyed by
INFONAVIT on the basis of the law governing its operations2. Despite this, the very
involvement of reforms to INFONAVIT in the pension reform agenda and the technical
work done in the process of arriving at the agreements of specific reforms have succeeded
in highlighting the problems with the institution and generating awareness of the
importance of reforms to INFONAVIT to ensure the sustainability of the pension reform.
The implementation of this second component of the loan can only be evaluated as
partially successful. Given the importance of INFONAVIT to the overall social security
reform program and the partial progress made on improving its financial performance, the
implementation of the overall program is rated satisfactory.
Performance
8.    Borrower performance in the identification, preparation, and implementation of
the project was highly satisfactory. With SHCP in the lead, an exceptionally qualified
core team was created that maintained a coordinated inter-institutional reform program.
The component of the program dealing with CONSAR and the private pension system
was carried out with a minimum of delay on technical and legal aspects. The
INFONAVIT component of the program, understandably involved significantly more
difficult negotiations and technical work. The Bank Team had limited access to technical
data and assistance from INFONAVIT, but the reform team in place provided all possible
2 INFONAVIT is governed by a tripartite Board of Directors with participation of the labor unions,
representatives of the building industry (developers), and the Government.



V.
support within the constraints. In this operation, the entire reform agenda regarding
INFONAVIT was intermediated with the reform team from SHCP. The Bank did not
have any official interaction with representatives of INFONAVIT through out the project
preparation and implementation. The problems with implementation of reforms to
INFONAVIT are attributable largely to the complex political dynamics of the reform.
The Government did indeed meet all of its commitments under the loan to the satisfaction
of the Bank, although later events detracted from the effective implementation of the
INFONAVIT component of the reforms. Overall, the Mexican authorities should be
commended on the degree of professional capacity that they brought to the achievement
of the second phase of the program and their commitment to the reform of the social
security system despite the difficulties faced, especially with regard to INFONAVIT.
9.    Bank performance in the implementation of the second phase was also highly
satisfactory. The Bank continued its close involvement with the process of pension
reform in Mexico and responded in a timely fashion to the Government's request for
financial and technical support. Bank staff also displayed significant awareness of the
political realities of the situation in Mexico and tailored the operation to be effective
within prevailing constraints. While the policy actions on the private pension system were
relatively easier, those regarding INFONAVIT presented a significantly greater
challenge. A number of policy choices to reform INFONAVIT were evaluated by the
project team during project preparation. As mentionecl in the President's Report (Report
No. P7239-ME), the reforms that would have been the first best from a technical
perspective would have required important changes to INFONAVIT's law which, in
SHCP's and Bank staff's judgement, were not feasible at the time. The policy approach
adopted by the Government through the gradual implementation of an agreement between
all parties in the management of INFONAVIT could have had a major impact on
improving INFONAVIT's operations and finances and correspondingly on the
sustainability of the pension reform. Hence, this more pragmatic and feasible approach
was adopted by staff. Staff also identified the possible lack of progress with reforms in
INFONAVIT as a risk facing the project in the President's Report.
Program Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
10.   The sustainability of the second phase of the reforms supported by CSDP II is
subject to several risks both as far as the AFORE system is concerned and as regards
INFONAVIT and its impact on the pension system. The sustainability of the new pension
system can only be judged over the long run - over twenty years - when the first workers
in the transition generation opt for their accumulated retirement assets rather than the
IMSS benefits under the government's minimum pension guarantee. However, it is fair to
state that the new private pension system has gained a, substantial degree of strength and
public support and hence seems to be on a sustainab[le footing. The high percentage of
private sector workers opting for the new system, the substantial financial investments



vi.
made by the AFOREs, and the effectiveness of a highly regarded regulator bode well for
the sustainability of the private pension system. While there are important long-term
issues such as SIEFORE investments in domestic and international equities (they are
currently allowed to invest largely in government paper), choice to workers of multiple
SIEFOREs, maintaining and further developing institutional strength of CONSAR,
autonomy of CONSAR etc., risks to the overall system's sustainability are less likely to
arise from this component of the pension system and more likely from INFONAVIT's
financial performance. It seems that at least as of now, the program of measures to
restructure INFONAVIT has not had the desired degree of support for implementation
and, therefore, is likely to have only a limited impact at best on its financial performance.
If no major reforms to INFONAVIT are undertaken to change the fundamental ways in
which it does business, in the instruments it uses to do so, and in its structure of its
governance, almost 40% of the workers' pension contribution could continue to earn rates
of return that are poor in absolute terms and also in comparison with those earned on
AFORE contributions. They could also continue to be substantially negative in real
terms. This will have a significant negative impact on the welfare of the workers who are
not entitled to switch back to the benefits of the old system' and those who do not benefit
from INFONAVIT loans. The Government's future pension liability to the transition
generation could be significantly higher than anticipated at the time of undertaking the
pension reform if a majority of these workers opt for the old IMSS benefits due to poor
INFONAVIT returns.
11.   Overall, the outcome of the implementation of the program's second phase is
considered satisfactory although the degree of its sustainability is unclear at this stage.
While the Government's achievements in introducing a new private pension system are
substantial and creditable, the limited progress on reforms to INFONAVIT could be an
impediment to its sustainability as was contemplated during the preparation and
supervision of the project.
Lessons Learned
12.   The principal lessons learned from the implementation experience of the second
phase of the CSDP are:
(i) Importance of Client Commitment to Reform. The implementation of the private
pension fund system has been a major success and indicates the importance of client
commitment to and ownership of the reform program. The Government's strong
commitment to the reform of the private pension system ensured that the design,
negotiation, and implementation of the reform was done in a collaborative environment
with necessary technical and financial support of the Bank. The client played a
leadership role in ensuring the credibility of the program and the Bank provided sound
3The transition generation of workers has this "lifetime switch" option.



vii.
technical advice and disseminated best practice. The cooperative environment of work
between the Bank and the Government ensured that this part of the reform program was a
success.
(ii) Difficulty of Dealing with Reform of A Highly Political Institution. The less
successful experience with reform of INFONAVIT is an excellent example of the
difficulties of reforming an institution that is highly political with entrenched vested
interests and traditionally a strong source of patronage. It was clear throughout the
process of project preparation and implementation that the Government itself was
strongly committed to reform of the institution. However, the governance structure of the
institution continues to give it an enormous amount of independence from the
Government and the Government's commitment was simply not enough to implement the
necessary reforms to the full extent. From the Bank's point of view, dealing with
INFONAVIT was simultaneously critically important and difficult to implement. In the
design of CSDP - the first pension reform loan - the Bank accepted the Government's
decision to include INFONAVIT in the reform process. While this decision was sound,
given the large fraction of pension contributions controlled by INFONAVIT, it also
introduced a "problem" in project design that was almost certain to continue to be a
thorny issue in future Bank operations in the sector. The Bank displayed keen sensitivity
to the politically charged nature of the reforms and kept a low profile throughout the
negotiations and implementation. This project must be one of the few instances of Bank
operations where reforms to an institution were negotiated without any direct official
contact with the institution involved. Based on the experience with INFONAVIT, the
Bank needs to keep in mind that reform of political institutions is extremely difficult,
even with a committed Government. Despite all the difficulties, however, it is critical to
continue working on such reform issues in order to achieve the objective of improving the
returns on pension contributions to workers and placing the overall social security system
on a sustainable basis.
(iii) Importance of Structuring Loan Conditionality. Bank operations dealing with
reform of politically sensitive issues such as social security call for ensuring that the loan
conditionality is adequate for program success while being practically achievable. This is
often a difficult balancing act, given the limited amount of political capital available for
the reform effort. In such situations, the Bank may sometimes need to structure its loan
conditionality so that disbursement occurs after actual evidence of implementation,
rather than after agreement to implement. An alternative would be to evaluate the
conditions necessary for continued Bank support of the future reforn process
incorporating the lessons learned from the support provided thus far. The limited success
with INFONAVIT indicates that the Government- simply could not ensure full
implementation of reforms that it managed to get approval of by INFONAVIT's Board.



viii.
(iv) Selection of An Appropriate Instrument. The experience with both the first two
CSDP loans indicates that the choice of a single-tranche adjustment operation (STO) as the
lending instrument by the Bank was appropriate. The STO is a lending vehicle designed by
the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of lengthy adjustment operations from
significant political shifts in borrowing countries. Through the use of the STO, the Bank
reduced the risk of delays and failure in the achievement of the program's long term aims
by locking the client into an overly ambitious and politically sensitive policy agenda. Had
the Bank chosen a traditional multiple tranche option, it is unclear whether even the limited
reforms that have been achieved in fNFONAVIT would have been possible. This is borne
out by the experience of the IDB, which chose a multiple tranche instrument with relatively
more general conditionality. The disbursement of the IDB's second tranche occurred based
largely on the more specific actions taken by the Government as part of CSDP II
conditionality. The STO and its requirement that reform be implemented prior to
disbursement provides the Bank with valuable leverage that can be used to make the
institution a more effective partner in the development process.
(v) Importance of Team Continuity. There was substantial continuity of teams - both
on the Government's side and on the Bank's side - during the preparation and
implementation of both the CSDP loans. The good working relationships and mutual trust
and respect that was engendered due to this stability of teams considerably facilitated
work on a complex reform.






Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)  Implementation Completion Report. Page I
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. BACKGROUND
1.   In response to the financial crisis that erupted in December 1994, the Governiment of
Mexico embarked on an ambitious program of fiscal and monetary reform. As a result of
this effort, Mexico has achieved substantial progress in its adjustment objectives. The
country has rebuilt its depleted reserves, improved its external debt profile, and regained
access to international capital markets. Mexico has fared relatively well compared to the
rest of Latin America in the more recent global economic turmoil and collapse of oil prices
in 1997/1998. The strategy of a conservative fiscal policy, monetary tightening, and flexible
exchange rate regime has been successful in short-term macroeconomic management.
2.    One of the main points of financial vulnerability of the Mexican economy as it faced
the 1994 peso crisis, was its shallow pool of domestic savings. The Zedillo administration
considered social security reform as a key element of its long term strategy to increase the
volume of domestic savings and provide the institutional basis through which domestic
savings could be channeled to productive investment with greater efficiency. In addition to
the expected actuarial and cash deficits that the existing public pension system would soon
incur, the administration was aware of the important advantages of a confluence of
economic and demographic trends that would make reform of the private-sector pension
system both viable and affordable.
3.    Mexico had conducted an earlier experiment with a multi-pillar pension system in
May 1992, that included a second pillar of individual retirement accounts. Because of
political compromises that had to be made in the system design in the process of
introduction of the SAR system, this first attempt at a defined-contribution system was
largely a failure. However, it provided a valuable introduction for Mexican authorities to
the difficult task of pension reform and provided a platform of experience for future work
in the reform of the social security system.
4.    In December 1995 the Mexican Congress approved legislation (the new Social
Security Law - Ley de Seguro Social) modifying the public pay-as-you-go, defined-
benefits scheme to establish a privately managed, mandatory, defined-contribution
scheme for private-sector workers affiliated to IMSS. A second legislative package on
the implementation of the reform (the Retirement Savings Systems Law - Ley de los
Sistemas de Ahorro para el Retiro), enacted in May 1996, set out the structure and
powers of CONSAR, the market regulator, and provided guiding principles for the
establishment, operation and supervision of pension fund administrators (AFOREs) and
specialized mutual funds for pensions (SIEFOREs). Under the 1997 reform, the public
IVCM system was separated into Old-Age and Severance insurance (RCV - Seguro de
Retiro, Cesantia en Edad Avanzada, y Vejez), and Disability and Life Insurance (IV -
Seguro de Invalidez y Vida). The reform became effective on July 1, 1997.



Page 2: Implementation Completion Report Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
5.    The Mexican Government's Contractual Savings Development Program was the
first nation-wide pension reform program supported by a loan from the Bank. The Bank
used a new lending instrument in order to support the reform through a series of single-
tranche adjustment operations (STOs) in order to protect the integrity of a lengthy
adjustment process from significant political shifts. 4 The Bank's first loan in support of
the first phase of the CSDP - focused on the establishment of the legal, regulatory, and
institutional framework for the reform of the country's old-age social security system -
for US$400 million was cofinanced with a two-tranche Sector Adjustment Loan of
US$300 million, by the Inter-American Development EBank.
6.    The Bank continued its support to the overall CSDP of the Government through
technical assistance and a second loan of US$400 million that supported the second phase
of the CSDP. This second phase concentrated on the actual implementation of the
reformed pension system and reforms to INFONAVIT.
II. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
7.    The medium term contractual savings development program: The reform of
contractual savings is one of the key goals in the Government's National Development
Plan (1995-2000). It is a medium-term program aimed at:
* increasing the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security
system gradually leading to greater effective coverage;
* implementing a financially viable pension s:ystem;
* limiting the fiscal impact of the current pension system and ensure
transparency of the fiscal costs of transition:
* enhancing financial market development and reducing volatility by
stimulating greater private financial intermediation and increasing the array of
financial instruments and contracts available; and
> contributing to enhance the allocative efficiency of domestic and, in the
longer-term, to raising aggregate savings.
8.    Objectives of the first phase of the CSDP: The shift of a country's pension
system to a more equitable and financially sustainable one and the implementation of
complementary financial sector reforms, is a long-term process. The Mexican Government
could not afford - financially and politically - to tackle all aspects of the reform in one fell
swoop. Also, the fine-tuning of the reform depends on the outcome of the implementation
of the initial phase. The Government decided to initially focus its efforts towards the
reform of the old age insurance scheme for private sector workers. During 1995-96 the
Government implemented a number of policy actions that resulted in shift from a public
PAYG, defined-benefit system to a privately managed, defined-contribution system. Also,
4Operational rationale for the choice of single-tranche adjustment lending is given in the World Bank
Memorandum, "Introducing Single Tranche Operations in LAC", by Aysegul Akin-Karaspan
(LATSO), February 1996.



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II) Implementation Completion Report: Page 3
the Government set up the supervisory framework for the private pension fund
administrators and issued the investment rules to be followed by the pension funds. The
specific objectives of the first phase of the reform were the: (a) introduction of the legal and
regulatory framework needed to establish the new pension system and to regulate and
supervise private pension fund administrators; (b) design and issuance of an investment
management regime; (c) assessment of the fiscal costs of the transition; (d) initiation of
improvements in the performance of INFONAVIT; (e) individualization of accounts and
strengthening the capacity of IMSS to manage the new pension system; and (f)
encouragement of public confidence in the new system through education and promotion.
9.    Objectives of the second phase of the CSDP: Full realization of the objectives
of the reform depended on the consolidation and fine-tuning of the reforms initiated
during 1995-96, on maintaining the necessary flexibility to cope with implementation
challenges, as well as addressing a number of design limitations. In addition, it was
considered essential to improve the financial performance of INFONAVIT in order to
provide better returns to workers on their overall pension contributions. The second
phase of the reform concentrated on the actual implementation of the reformed pension
system including: (a) implementing, consolidating, and fine-tuning the reformed system
for private sector workers by: (i) ensuring a flexible and responsive regulatory framework;
(ii) initiating operation of the reformed system and increasing its efficiency; (iii)
transferring SAR92 balances from the Central Bank to individual AFORE accounts; (iv)
fine-tuning investment policies and improving risk management; (v) strengthening
supervision and enforcement; and (vi) initiating payment of disability and survivors benefits
by private insurers; (b) updating estimates of the fiscal costs of transition; (c) deepening
reforms to INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns on the housing sub-account; (d)
advancing in the technical preparatory work for the reform of the public pension systems;
(e) sustaining public confidence through education and information; and (f) advancing in
the implementation of complementary financial market initiatives.
10.   The CSDP II loan's objectives were clear and appropriately designed for a single
tranche operation. They were consistent with the Government's policy agenda, as
articulated in the National Development Plan for 1995-2000, and the National Plan to
Finance Development 1997-2000. They were also in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico discussed by the Bank Executive Directors on
October 17, 1996 that set the establishment of a financial environment to encourage
greater domestic savings as a priority in the Bank's lending program.
III. BANK SUPPORT: A PHASED REFORM APPROACH
11.   The Bank's support in the area of contractual savings in Mexico began in 1990
with the preparation of an economic report, which provided a detailed analysis of
contractual savings issues. The two CSDP loans were the outcome of a close dialogue
between the Bank and the Government on the development of Mexico's financial sector,
the need to improve the allocation of financial resources, and set the basis for the
effective channeling of domestic savings. The Bank's participation accelerated in late-



Page 4: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)
1994 with the provision of advice and technical support in the area of pension reform and
capital market development. This culminated with the decision to support the Mexican
Government's reform objectives through a series of one-tranche adjustment operations.
12.   In order to appreciate the strategic framework for the Bank's support, it is useful
to see the evolution of policy actions supported by the Elank.
* 1995-96 policy reforms supported by CSDP I
established the legal and regulatory framework to shift the pension system for private
sector workers to a defined contribution, privately-managed scheme;
v  issued the investment management rules for the pension funds;
strengthened the supervisory agency (CONSAR);
estimated fiscal transition costs, including sensitivity analysis;
took first steps to improve the financial performance of INFONAVIT;
initiated public awareness campaign to educate the public and bolster support for the
reform; and
initiated the implementation of complementary financial market initiatives.
i January 1997-April 1998 policy reforms supported by CSDP II
/  implemented, consolidated, and fine-tuned the reforn to the pension system for private
sector workers;
/  successfully initiated operation of centralized collection and record-keeping system;
/ advanced in the design of reforms of INFONAVIT to ensure adequate returns on the
housing sub-account;
V  updated estimates and sensitivity analysis of the fiscal costs of the reform;
v  advanced in the technical preparatory work for reform of the public sector and state
level pension systems;
sustained public confidence through education and information; and
/  continued implementation of complementary financial market reforms.
*  FutureAgendaforBanksupport- benchmarksfor afuture thirdphase:
implement further and substantive reforms to INFONAVIT in order to improve its
financial performance;
strengthen CONSAR's regulatory independence;
/  introduce greater portfolio diversification including investment in equities for
SIEFOREs;
/ design and implement measures to contain/reduce the administrative costs of the
system;
take measures aimed at sound development of annuities markets;
/  implement measures to reduce the cost of the disability and life insurance scheme;
/ ensure the financial viability of the pension schemes for public sector workers; and
identify specific actions to increase coverage if reformed system has no significant
impact.



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 5
IV. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
13.   Given the structure of a single-tranche adjustment lending operation, most of the
objectives of the second phase of the program were met prior to the loan's presentation to
the Board. Details on the implementation, consolidation, and fine tuning of the new
system, the strengthening of the regulatory framework, establishment and fine tuning of
investment policies and risk management, and the measures agreed upon to deepen the
reforms to improve the financial performance of INFONAVIT can be found in the
President's Report, Report No. P7239-ME. An in-depth analysis of the implementation
of the new AFORE system, the importance of INFONAVIT in the overall reform process
as well as the challenges to the sustainability of the new system are also contained in the
same report. As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower was required to take certain
key actions towards improving the financial performance of INFONAVIT. Evidence of
the Borrower's compliance with all of the loan conditions is provided in Annex A: Matrix
of Compliance with Policy Actions of this report.
14.   Since CSDP II is part of an incremental process of reform, it is too early to assess
fully the success of the reform in meeting its long-term aims, or to judge their
sustainability. Nevertheless, an analysis of current indicators as to whether these long-
term goals are likely to be achieved is vital to the continuing dialogue with the Borrower,
and as a guide to future Bank operations for further reform of social security in Mexico.
The key results of the second phase of the reform process and the operation of the new
system in its first one and a half years are presented below.
15.   The first phase of the CSDP had a highly satisfactory implementation experience'.
The implementation experience of the second phase supported by CSDP II has been a
more qualified success. CSDP II had two major components of reform - one dealing
with implementation of the new privatized pension system and the other dealing with
reforms to INFONAVIT. Together the reforms were aimed at placing the retirement
income component of Mexico's social security system for private sector workers on a
sustainable basis. The implementation of the first component can be judged to have been
highly satisfactory. The implementation and consolidation of the private pension system
and its regulatory structure has been successful and the system can be judged to have
been placed on a sound footing. While further reform and fine tuning of the system is
necessary, it is reasonable to state that the essential foundations of a sound privately
managed pension system  have been laid.  The reforms aimed at improving the
administrative structure, operations, and credit policies of INFONAVIT were executed to
the letter of the Government's commitment to the Bank. The Board of INFONAVIT
approved the necessary measures required for satisfaction of the conditions precedent to
disbursement of the loan. Subsequent to loan disbursement, however, INFONAVIT has
5The Implementation Completion Report for CSDP I (Report No. 17771, May 5, 1998) rated the project
highly satisfactory.



Page 6: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
thus far taken only tentative steps towards partial implementation of the reforms agreed to
in the resolutions of its Board. In the view of the Bank. Team that prepared the loan, the
delay in implementation of some of the reforms and the partial nature of the reforms
implemented have eroded the spirit of the reforms agreed to prior to disbursement. It is
unclear at this stage that the reforms to INFONAVIT contemplated in the loan will either
be implemented fully or if implemented with substantial modifications will have any
significant impact on its operations. It is important to keep in mind that the
implementation of the reforms lay beyond the ability of the Government alone due to the
degree of autonomy enjoyed by INFONAVIT on the basis of the law governing its
operations. The main success of the project has been in raising the necessity of reforms
to INFONAVIT to the top of the agenda and in sensitizing the Government to the
difficult work that lies ahead.
A.    Implementation and Consolidation of the 1997 Pension Reform
Al. Regulatory Framework
16.   Timely and flexible regulation of pension funds by CONSAR should play a major
role in ensuring the success of the reform. Though justifiable as initial conditions or
explained by the fragility of the financial sector and political constraints, some features of
the initial regulatory framework may have limited the most productive long term
investments and/or require more flexibility as the system evolves. To ensure the
flexibility of the regulatory framework and to respond to additional regulatory needs after
the initial implementation of the reforn, CONSAR has issued a number of key
regulations (Circulares) since January 1997. These include guidelines for (i) general
information disclosure from entities involved in the operation of the system to CONSAR;
(ii) accounting and balance sheet information to be sent by AFOREs and SIEFOREs to
CONSAR; (iii) the monthly report to be sent by each AFORE to CONSAR; (iv) general
information disclosure by AFOREs to affiliates and the public; (v) prospectus for each
SIEFORE; (vi) individual statement to be sent to workers' with the financial performance
and balances of the AFORE and INFONAVIT accounts; and (vii) confidentiality of
individual account information by entities involved in the operation of the system.



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 7
A2. Operation and Efficiency of the New Pension System
(a) AFORE industry authorization, affiliation, market share limits, and switching
rules
17.   Authorization process. CONSAR has authorized 17 AFOREs in a timely fashion,
ensuring that foreign-owned AFOREs receive equal treatment with Mexican-owned
AFOREs. Since then four AFOREs have either merged with or have sold to others,
reducing the number of industry participants to 14. CONSAR has handled this process of
industry consolidation extremely well with little disruption to the smooth functioning of
the overall system.
18.    Affiliation Process. CONSAR issued the general rules governing the affiliation
contract between the worker and his/her chosen AFORE on February 18, 1997. Since then,
there has been an extremely positive initial response to the new system - as demonstrated
by the affiliation of over 73% of potential workers by July 1, 1999. As of July 1, 1999
assets under management by the AFOREs totaled P$ 85.7 billion - equivalent to
approximately US$ 8.5 billion (Figures la and lb).
Figure la. Worker Affiliation by Month
(February 1997-July 1999)
16,000,000                                         80%
14,000,000                                         70%
12,000,000                                         60%
0   10,000,000                                       60%
0)~8,000,000                                        400/  0
5_                                                      4-j'/
6,000,000                                         30%
6
Z  4,000.000                                          20%
2,000,000                                         10%
0%
4' _4  .61N 4    CP 4' 4 4'    ' J ' 4' 4  4' 4
Month
F No. of IMSS Workers k... of tMSS Workers



Page 8: Implementation Completion Report    Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
Figure lb. Assets under Management, by AFORE
(July 31, 1999)
20,000.00
18,000.00  _
16,000.00 
14,000.00  -    ____                    _    ._-
0
ow    12,000.00      ----           -    ~ - ---
O 10,000.00   _.- _           _._  _.______--
0
8,000.00 . . _-----_____.             -_  _    _-.___
6,000.00
4,000.00
2,000.00
AFOR~E
19.    Market share limits and concentration of the industry. The law stated that for
four years - beginning in 1997 - there would be a 17% maximum market share limit for
each AFORE. This limit would then be increased to 20%  after 4 years. CONSAR issued
regulations which set the limit in terms of number of workers registered in each AFORE.
To assure that no AFORE receives an unfair competitive advantage, CONSAR refrained
from authorizing the first AFORES until it was able to grant simultaneous authorizations
to a significant number of competitors (Figures 2a and 2b).



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP I)     Implementation Completion Report: Page 9
Figure 2a. Market Share of Affiliated IMSS Workers, by AFORE
(July 31, 1999)
18%
16%   --_                         _  _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _   
14%     __.                       _       -_
s210%---1I
6%                     -         ___      ----           -----             l
4%
0%
E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FR
27%    -    _.  -l    1-l-             -_|                      _ _- 
2%      /§ -/                   v -:sv    b   9                'b



Page 10: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)
Figure 2b. Salary Profile of Affiliates, by AFORE
(July 31, 1999)
690
8.0
E0  0   -  
24.0
S~~~~~
rule.e As  fould be expeted the smale AFRE  fel tha  filae shul be presented _
30.o   Swtotlhdingi(Trativesost).acune o bySA         thsed   sales freguatn prmtores sw tryingo
torkersnacouraenwtchn ammongFRs funatd adebstator -precededt the pbimpotionc offhs
reulatin And colimtn the epcostd, thie smllrAOcEss. COSAelture that afilatsshulkepresbene
alwedth asfwbritch onl possibe  to yeransfe tha workers ptodue bertai dich umntationg, avoi
excsspoffidentifiacration, The laccoun sAtOEmen fom the wonrker's existin haFOR liedtc. ase
patronge barrerst switchingprcs. InThis exprintext therehile andcArgensstinat theroe yarms
limtaio oftora switcingst-tiexcept in caccunes whereb the omsalsio structur (promodifieds) tring
an imroemnto verg swwcitchimng f-ulend otheisrLatinAirican highl righs6 the    experince o
ofgulatcing indlmtn the firtsta of this prograess. beeNSRrqie that vr e workers hae
aloe oswitched u ofnlymonce 14a milliondta workers prdc etin thdocumently2114 atio swiche
aproofietfcto,aaconsttmnfrmtewre'exsigAFOREs byc Juyas199
6Countaties such aswichieaengo- impleenting taeheireow thersiommissiof rstrictiureo sitchoing.i
an  imrvmn3  vrsicigrue.0ohrLtnAeiancutis.Teeprec
AFOREs by July 1, 1999.R
20 Cutiswsuchi   (Tas     pasis).aCONSAR issuedinterw   vrulens ofregulactiong the switching.o



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11) Implementation Completion Report: Page 11
(b) Operation of new centralized system for collection, individualization of accounts,
and record keeping
21.   To ensure the smooth and efficient operation of the collection and record-keeping
process, the following actions have been taken by the authorities: (i) CONSAR has issued
Circulares regulating the functioning of the collection and record-keeping system; (ii) In
terms of account individualization, it was decided to initially utilize the IMSS
identification numbers and gradually move to a more reliable identification number called
Clave Unica de Registro de Poblacion (CURP). As of July 1, 1999 over 7 million CURPs
had been generated - equivalent to approximately 48% of potential accounts. While the
CURP's objective is to eliminate duplication of accounts and diminish transaction costs,
some difficulties are being experienced in its implementation and there is anecdotal
evidence that some account duplication may be occurring, although the extent of it may
not yet be significant. It is important that the Government and CONSAR address this
issue in a timely manner, especially keeping in mind that multiplicity of accounts was one
of the main reasons for the failure of the earlier SAR92 reform. Any weakness in the
development and maintenance of a sound identification system for social security
payments could pose a potential risk to the sustainability of the system; (iii) A Unique
Identification System (SUA - Sistema Unico de Autodeterminacion) was developed and
agreed upon by all relevant parties in order to report payroll taxes to the Government.
The SUA consists of a computer (diskette-based) software program for the reporting of
payroll taxes (all social security payments and payments to INFONAVIT).  All
employers with more than four employees are required to use it. By February 1998 all
required employers were using the SUA; (iv) An agreement was signed between IMSS
and 12 special authorized banks (Entidades receptoras) relating to the collection of
payroll taxes and their transfer to the Banco de Mexico. Banks are required to send the
funds to the Banco de Mexico within 2 working days and the information to PROCESAR
within 3 working days (which has decreased to 1 day beginning in July 1998).
A3. Transfer of SAR 92 balances
22.    To ensure the smooth transfer of SAR92 accumulated balances to the AFOREs
from the Central Bank, all parties involved such as CONSAR, SHCP, and the Central
Bank have issued detailed processes establishing the means to authorize transfers and to
ensure that contributors are informed about the transfer. The total SAR92 balance with
the Central Bank at the introduction of the new system was P$103.7 billion, of which as
of July 31, 1999 P$22.7 billion had been transferred to the AFOREs, and P$36.6 billion
to INFONAVIT.



Page 12: Implementation Completion Report   Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 1)
Figure 3. Total SAR 92 Balances
(July 31, 1999)
60,000.0  -
50,000.0   -  ______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
*IMSS  0INFONA
0   40,000.0
0.
t 30000.0 .
0
20,000,0-
10,000.0 
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Year
Table 1. SAR 1992-1997 Balances Transferred, by Receiving AFORE
(millions pesos, July 31, 1999)
Amount received from
AFORE              SAR '92
E3ANC:OMER             6,2 5.
BANAMEX                4,565.9
PROFUTURO              2,278.9
INBURSA                2,226.0
SANTANDER              2,143.4
GARANTE                2,018.7
BITAL                  1,895.0
XXI                    1,811.7
BANORTE                1,086.9
BANCRECER               938.9
PREVINTER               538.2
CONFIA                  316.5
ATLANTICO               181.5
GENESIS                 145.9
TEPEYAC                 11 5.7
ZURICH                   54.0
CAPITALIZA              48.3
A4. Investment Policies and Risk Management
23.    The investment regime  governing  the new  pension  system  was issued  by
CONSAR in June 1997. Currently each AFORE is authorized to offer only one SIEFORE
to all its affiliates and the regulations governing the first SIEFORE are summarized in
Table 2 below.



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)  implementation Completion Report: Page 13
Table 2. Investment Guidelines for the First SIEFORE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(a s%ofh fud
|Government debt                                                                                     100l
|Equity securities                                                                        |0l
Eligible bank debt (issued or guaranteed by a commercial bank) (1) (2)                               10
Total eligible private debt (corporate and commercial bank) and development bank                    35
obligations(3)
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer as a percentage of              10
SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by any single issuer, as a percentage of the          10
issuer's securities
Investment in any single issue as a percentage of such issue                                         10
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by issuers belonging to the same financial,           15
commercial or industrial group, as a percentage of SIEFORE assets
Investment in instruments issued or guaranteed by affiliates of the SIEFORE  as a                    5
percentage of SIEFORE assets
(I) Short-term obligations (less than one year maturity) must be rated in the top three rating categories by an
authorized rating agency; long-term obligations must be rated in the top two categories. CONSAR's Risk Analysis
Committee will establish criteria for when a rating from a single agency is inadequate and when commercial banks
would be required to secure a rating from an additional agency.
(2) The securities of banks that have undergone intervention by the authorities are ineligible for investment by
SIEFORES.
(3) Private debt instruments have to satisfy certain requirements on types and ratings as specified in CONSAR's
Circulares Nos. 15-1 and 15-2.



Page 14: Implementation Completion Report Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
24.    The actual investments of the AFOREs as of July 31, 1999 are provided in Table
3. The SIEFOREs have invested over 97% of their assets in government bonds (CETES,
BONDES, BONDES 91 and UDIBONOS) and the 35% limit on private bonds (issued
both by banks and corporates) is currently not binding. Due to the requirement that
inflation-indexed bonds form a large part of the portfolio, the AFOREs are investing
proportionately more than the share of instrumernts available in the market in
UDIBONOS. Only 0.28% of the aggregate investmenits are in bank securities and only
2.03% of the aggregate investments are in other private debt instruments. The average
annual rate of return obtained by the AFOREs befo:re fees as of July 31, 1999 was
30.56%, implying a real annualized rate of return of 11.42%. Based on CONSAR's
model of administrative fees, the average annual real rate of return net of fees was about
10%.
Table 3: Assets under Management
(July 31, 1999)
lBancomer                       2,062,283,56:3 .33     22 .8%
|Banamex                        1,545,943,369.14       17.1%
lProfuturo GNP                    856,755,120. 17      9.5%
Inbursa                          771,969,511.66       8.6%
Garante                          765,634,994.54       8.5%
Bital                            737,967,491.92       8.2%
Santander Mexicano               708,310,136.06       7.8%
XXI                              505,895,361.99       5.6%
S6lida Banorte Generali          441,868,088.55       4.9%
Bancrecer Dresdner               313,990,389.70       3.5%
Principal                        172,820,248.17        1.9%
Genesis                           58,030,352.46       0.6%
Tepeyac                           50,961,708.86       0.6%
Zurich                            36,022,053.09       0.4%
|Total                           9,028,452,389.63     100.0



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 1I)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 15
Table 4: Investments of the AFOREs
(July 31, 1999)
-UNDt')l       6,Z90',6w6,94:k.
CETES                   967,462,471.53     10.72%
UDIBONOS                951,551,733.69     10.54%
BONDES                  482,329,958.39     5.34%
PIC                      58,836,380.50     0.65%
UMS02V                   40,535,327.84     0.45%
UMSOIF                   23,139,143.23     0.26%
UMS07F                    2,555,660.77     0.03%
DEPBMX                    3,370,660.82     0.04%
TELMEX                   88,663,186.38     0.98%
VITRO                    33,686,324.30     0.37%
FORD                     26,908,880.43     0.30%
GCARSO                   18.971,365.31     0.21%
TELECOM                   7,998.196.28     0.09%
EKTFIN                    6,449,456.84     0.07%
TABLEX                     205,167.57      0.00%
NAFTIE                   16.225,977.63     0.18%
BANOBRA                   4,566,569.35     0.05%
BMORGAN                   4,328,983.10     0.05%
'I O IAL               9,U28,452,9.63     10IW00%
25.    CONSAR has also addressed in a timely fashion several aspects of the fine-tuning
of the investment regime of the new system. Its activities have focussed on three issues:
(i) the evolution of the investment regime; (ii) the financial and market risks of the
system and their management; and (iii) systemic problems that could impact sound
management of assets. It has issued several regulations to address the above issues and is
continuously monitoring the experiences and developments in the market in order to
adapt its regulation to the needs of the markets.
A5. Supervision and Enforcement
26.    Most outside observers, and many of the fund managers themselves, have judged
CONSAR's regulatory performance to be highly professional and effective. Within
CONSAR, the Direcci6n General de Inspecci6n y Vigilancia is charged with the
operational and financial supervision of the new private pension system. CONSAR has
developed customized systems software that feeds data on affiliation, the status of
retirement accounts, SIEFORE investment activity, and the eligibility of acquired
instruments to its analysts on a daily basis. CONSAR has issued guidelines on the
methodology for the valuation of eligible investment instruments. The majority of
supervisory functions are computerized, and operate in conjunction with IMSS operating
system. CONSAR's supervision procedures are the only mechanism of daily financial



Page 16: Implementation Completion Report Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
surveillance that exists in the country, and are supported by programs that perform
crosschecks on data received electronically from the AFOREs, PROCESAR and IMSS.
27.   CONSAR is required to report once every six months on the operation of the new
system to Congress. The first such report was prepared in February 1998 covering the
July-December 1997 period. CONSAR also provides statistical information on the new
pension system in its bimonthly bulletins. The bulletins have a wide distribution and can
be accessed from CONSAR's web page7.
A6. Other Issues
28.   The Government has also implemented several reforms in other aspects that are
crucial for the sustainability of the new system. It has reformed the provision of
disability and life insurance by addressing issues in: (i) containment of the costs of the IV
scheme; (ii) design of the technical and operational mechanisms and the regulatory
framework for the smooth initiation of payment of annuities by the private sector; and
(iii) analytical work toward the fine-tuning of the system. It has also undertaken an
extensive updating of the fiscal costs of the transition in order to fund them through a
credible financing plan. The original estimates prepared by SHCP were updated in 1998
in light of updated macroeconomic and demographic projections, initial implementation
experience, the actual commission structure, and initial SIEFORE returns.
A 7. Outstanding Issues
29.   Despite the success in the implementation of the reforms to the private pension
system, several issues remain to be addressed in order to further enhance the efficiency
and effectiveness of the system. It is important that the Government ensures that the
system of issuing CURPs is sound and that the CURPs do indeed serve their function of
eliminating multiplicity of accounts. SIEFOREs need to be allowed to offer a wider
variety of products (including equity investments) that could be utilized by workers of
different age groups and risk preferences. While the pension reform law provides for
multiple SIEFOREs, thus far only one has been allowed. CONSAR has undertaken
extensive background work on this issue and needs to consider allowing multiple
SIEFOREs. The issue of international diversification of SIEFORE investments needs to
be looked into as the next step in the liberalization process. While the pension reform law
does not permit such investments, it would be appropriate to revisit this issue at an early
stage. CONSAR and the AFOREs need to examine ways to reduce the administrative
costs of the system. One of the objectives of a relatively tight regime governing traspasos
was to lower the costs of the system by reducing marketing costs. However, in reality,
there has been no reduction in the administrative costs paid by the workers. Close
attention needs to be paid to the development of the annuities market so that retirees can
convert their accumulated pension contributions to annuities in an efficient market. The
Government also needs to examine ways to reduce the costs of disability and life
insurance in order to make these products more affordable and the markets more efficient.
7The address of CONSAR's Web page is: http://www.consar.gob.mx



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II) Implementation Completion Report: Page 17
The regulatory independence of CONSAR is another issue that needs to be examined. At
present CONSAR is dependent on the Government for financial resources. The pension
reformn as currently implemented covers only the private sector workers of Mexico.
Public sector workers, both at the federal and state levels, and workers in parastatals
continue to have their own special defined-benefit schemes and do not participate in the
private pension system. Preliminary evidence from analyses of state level pension funds
is that many of them are actuarially in deficit and the Government could be carrying a
large contingent liability on account of these schemes. It is essential to expand the
pension reforn agenda to include these special schemes as well as the next step in placing
the entire social security system on a sustainable basis.
B.    Implementation of Reforms to INFONAVIT
30.   As the largest of Mexico's special housing funds (Table 5), INFONAVIT is an
important source of mortgage loans in Mexico's housing finance system. Along with its
critical role in housing finance, the reforms undertaken in 1996 by the Government to the
social security system have given a key role to INFONAVIT for ensuring adequate
pension income through positive real returns for contributors. Under the reforms, the 5
percent contribution of a worker's wage to INFONAVIT represents between 30 and 40
percent of total contributions to pension accounts. Hence it is important that these funds
earn competitive rates of return. Other benefits from competitive returns comparable to
that obtained by the AFOREs include: (i) potentially lower fiscal costs as the better
performance of INFONAVIT increases total returns on individual accounts and lowers
the probability that younger transition workers will choose the old PAYG benefits over
the new system, or that the Government will have to provide the minimum pension
guarantee to new workers; and (ii) the higher potential retirement income to workers just
entering the new system which could reduce evasion or provide incentives for workers to
join the formal labor force.



Page 18: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
l____________________ ! Units       % of total    Millions US$    % oftotal
Total Originated          396,615    100.0%        3108.56       100.0%
JNFONAVTT  1008,00:350 t;;: 0027.2%g 7   1,518.62    48.9%
FOVI                       56,952     14.4%            840.18    27.0%
FOVISSSTE                  16,712     4.2%             222.51     7.2%
FONHAPO                     5,523     1.4%              32.95     1.1%
!VIVAH                      7,975     2.0%               18.2    0.6%
OTHER**                   201,418     50.8%            476.09    15.3%
* Does not include loans for improvements.
** Includes Commercial Banks, PEMEX, BANOBRAS, CFE, FOVIMI-ISSFAM, various state
and municipal housing institutions.
Source: SEDESOL                                                          l
RI. Reforms undertaken in the first phase of the CSDmP:
31.   Several measures were  introduced  to  improve  INFONAVIT's financial
performance. They included: (i) strengthened supervisory role for the National Banking
and Securities Commission (CNBV) through initiation of regular supervisory process
using procedures applicable to similar financial institutions; (ii) stock taking of
INFONAVIT's portfolio by external international auditors; (iii) greater public disclosure
to the general public as well as contributors in their individual account statements about
the rate of return on pension accounts, including the AFORES and INFONAVIT; and (iv)
changes in the INFONAVIT operating rules (Article 43 bis) to allow INFONAVIT to
undertake "virtual" cofinancing arrangements for mortgages through commercial banks
and other financial institutions with the objective of subjecting a portion of INFONAVIT
mortgages to commercial pricing and standards to loan underwriting. While the first three
reformns focused on greater transparency and did not constitute a fundamental change in
the way INFONAVIT operated, the fourth reform, if successful, would have had the
potential to change the scope of INFONAVIT's business. The Bank worked extensively
with the authorities in carrying out technical analysis focused on the performance of
INFONAVIT's mortgage instrument and the quality of its loan portfolio.
B2. Reforms Undertaken in the Second Phase of the CSDP
32.   Many problems continued to hinder sound financial performance of INFONAVIT.
Real rates of return have been negative in past years, including 1997. The overall
portfolio was weak, characterized by an excessive number of non-performing loans
estimated at between 46% and 62%. The poor quality of its asset base required
provisions in excess of INFONAVIT's equity. Collection efforts by INFONAVIT of its
overdue loans have been minimal as it relies on large annual flows from workers'
contributions to remain liquid. Existing information systems were inadequate and could



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11) Implementation Completion Report: Page 19
not easily identify workers' loan accounts or track payments into individual accounts that
are identified. The current structure of the mortgage instrument was not commercially
viable nor securitizable as the minimum wage to which loan repayments are indexed is a
policy instrument not subject to market forces. Many INFONAVIT loans were too large
for the purchasing power of its lower income borrowers or its older, higher income
borrowers. Credit criteria did not give enough weight to borrowers' repayment ability.
33.  In order to address these issues, during the preparation and implementation of CSDP
II, the Government undertook several steps aimed at improving the management and
performance of INFONAVIT's portfolio. The Government - represented by SHCP and
CNBV - and INFONAVIT signed an inter-agency agreement (the Convenio) in March 1998
that outlined a restructuring program covering areas such as the adoption of new accounting
and provisioning standards, development of a new portfolio management system (including
introduction of new information technology) designed to track individually service
performance of each loan, introduction of new processes and systems for liquidity
management, changes in staffing at senior levels, reengineering INFONAVIT operational
processes, adoption of a loan recovery program, revamping of credit policies, and reduction
of operating expenses. Complementary actions were proposed to be implemented in
conjunction with the Convenio covering mainly issues of strengthening management and
improving governance. The Government also agreed to undertake the following actions
prior to the effectiveness of CSDP II: (i) establishment of an appropriate system of external
financial controls beginning in 1999; (ii) submission to the Bank of a revised table of
maximum amounts of credit (reflecting borrowers' ability to pay) as agreed between
INFONAVIT and CNBV and approved by INFONAVIT's Board; and (iii) review of credit
rules and loan rationing mechanism by INFONAVIT and submission of any necessary
revisions to INFONAVIT's Board for approval. The concrete requirement of the first
condition, as defined in the minutes of the negotiations, refers to a change in
INFONAVIT's external auditor (who by then had functioned continuously as
INFONAVIT's external auditor for almost 11 years) and adoption of a new rotating policy
for selecting future external auditors. Although by design, a STO should not have included
special conditions of effectiveness, the above conditions were necessary to provide the
authorities with sufficient time to implement the reforms.
34.   The actual implementation experience with regard to reforms to INFONAVIT has
been mixed. Shortly after approval of CSDP II by the Bank's Board, INFONAVIT's top
management, including the Director General, was replaced by a new team led by a person
with a reputation as a reformer. In subsequent discussions, CNBV informed the Bank that
due to actions taken by the new Director General, INFONAVIT had put in place qualified
and experienced financial professionals in key (although second level) posts. The Bank
also learned that there remained considerable resistance by both groups (other than the
Government) represented in INFONAVIT's Board - the developers and the unions - to
changing INFONAVIT's historically highly political role as a source of patronage.
35.   The following is a condition-by-condition assessment of the implementation
experience of the three effectiveness conditions listed above:



Page 20: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
Adoption of an appropriate new system of externalfinancial controls: After
lengthy and difficult negotiations with INFONAVIT's Board, INFONAVIT's
external auditor submitted his resignation. With the receipt of the approved
minutes of the relevant meeting of INFONAVIT's Board and the letter of
resignation of the external auditor, the Bank considered the condition to have
been satisfactorily met for disbursement.  However, subsequent to loan
disbursement, the appointment of a new external auditor was repeatedly
delayed due to objections of vested interests. In September 1999, a new
external auditing firm - Gossler (with Nexia International as an international
partner) - was selected to audit the accounts for 19998. CNBV has established
minimum audit standards for the new auditor. Due to the delay in
appointment, the new auditor will work with the old auditor for the
finalization of 1999 accounts. It is hoped that this would not adversely affect
the quality of the external audit.
*  New maximum credit amount table: SHCI' officials conducted an analysis of
INFONAVIT's loan portfolio (with technical assistance through a PHRD
grant) and informed INFONAVIT's new management that many of the loans
made by INFONAVIT were oversized and unable to be paid off by borrowers
due to: (i) the large size of the loans (denominated in minimum wages); (ii)
the repayment cap of 30% of wages; (iii) the estimated lifetime profile of
borrower's earnings; and (iv) the maturity limit set by workers' retirement.
INFONAVIT's Board agreed to reduce the maximum credit amount tables in
the following manner: the maximum credit amount table would not be
adjusted upward after the then expected (and subsequently realized) 14%
increase in the minimum wage in December 1998. This step was expected to
reduce the maximum loan amounts by 14% in real terms. SHCP intended to
propose a further 10% decrease in maximurn loan amounts to INFONAVIT's
Board that would go into effect in mid-1999. The Bank received the revised
loan tables reflecting a 14% decrease in loan amounts. The Bank considered
the proposed 24% overall reduction in the real value of the maximum amounts
of the loans to be a significant step in the right direction. CNBV indicated to
SHCP that,it intended to require additional loan-loss provisions, as necessary,
for new loans originated by INFONAVIT in the event that the new loans
exceeded the borrower's repayment capacity9. The Bank considered these
steps to be the maximum that the Governnent could achieve given the
charged political atmosphere and considered the second condition as having
been satisfactorily met for disbursement. Subsequent to the disbursement and
to the increase in the minimum wage in December, 1998, the immediate
implementation of the first step of reducing loan amounts by 14% was delayed
8 Gossler has a 15 month contract - from September 1999 to December 2000. It is therefore reasonable to
conclude that the audit for 2000 will also be done by this firm.
9 Letter from CNBV to SHCP dated November 23, 1998.



Mexico: Second Contractuol Savings Development Program (CSDP 11) Implementation Completion Report: Page 21
due to strong objections by the unions and the developers. In January 1999,
INFONAVIT undertook to implement the new loan table with effect from
May 1999. With the delay in the implementation of this first phase of
reduction in loan amounts and despite SHCP's best efforts, the proposal to
reduce loan amounts by a further 10% was given up. However, in May 1999,
with continued objections of the unions and developers, it was agreed that the
first phase across-the-board 14% reduction would be modified in a manner so
that INFONAVIT would in effect reduce maximum loan sizes to low income
workers by a higher percentage (than 14%) but simultaneously increase the
maximum loan amounts to higher income workers. The rationale of this
modification was that it would better reflect the repayment abilities of the
workers. This modified version has been implemented since May 1999. The
impact of this modified reform on INFONAVIT's financial performance is
unclear at this stage and will depend on implementation experience. If new
loans indeed better reflect borrowers' ability to repay and higher income
workers (with higher maximum loans than before) are indeed better credits
than low income workers, INFONAVIT's loan portfolio should improve
gradually. However, one important source of risk to the new maximum credit
amounts arises from the observed career wage path of typical workers in
Mexico. A typical worker's wage path tends to drop off in real terms after
reaching a maximum. If INFONAVIT's loans are extended to workers who
are close to the peak of their earning potential, their repayment ability is likely
to be poorer in the future than at the moment of obtaining the loan, thereby
exposing the loan portfolio to the risk of non-repayment. Quite apart from the
impact of the change in maximum credit amounts, it is clear that the delay in
the implementation of the reforms and continuation of business-as-usual for a
longer time period would have further weakened INFONAVIT's financial
performance.
* New credit rules: As required under the conditionality for CSDP II, SHCP
conducted a review of the credit rules of INFONAVIT and submitted, to
INFONAVIT's Board in December 1998, a proposal to change the points
system for allocating credit to workers (in order to arrive at loan amounts)
with the intention of reducing default risk. This proposal has not yet been
approved and it is unlikely that it will be approved in the foreseeable future.
However, INFONAVIT's Board approved a mechanism (43 bis) allowing
commercial banks to apply their own under-writing standards while utilizing
INFONAVIT's major operational advantage of direct payment of interest and
amortization of loans by garnishing the worker's wage. The Government
believes that these changes combined with improved collection practices
should lead to strengthened financial position for INFONAVIT. The Bank
considered these actions as adequate for loan disbursement. In April/May
1999, INFONAVIT's Board approved an increase in loan interest rates and a
modification in the repayment structure that is expected to lead to more
determinate repayments. As of the date of this report, implementing



Page 22: Implementation Completion Report Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
procedures for 43 bis loans are being drafted. The impact of these reforms on
the financial performance of INFONAVI T will depend on the speed and
efficacy of their actual implementation.
36.   As can be seen, the Borrower did satisfy the conditions for effectiveness of the
CSDP II loan. However, subsequent to the disbursement of the loan, some reforms have
been implemented, though with delay, and political compulsions have diluted the impact
of some other reforms. In addition it is clear that under the present political
circumstances, there is little political will to undertake any further substantial reforms to
INFONAVIT  prior to the next presidential elections in 2000.   Although the
implementation of the reform program was not entirely in the Government's hands, it is
the view of the Bank Team that prepared the loan that the delay in and partial nature of
the implementation of the reforms by INFONAVIT has undermined the fundamental
spirit of the agreements between the Bank and the Government. The timely
implementation of all the reforms agreed to was fundamental to ensuring that the quality
of INFONAVIT's loan portfolio would not deteriorate further, especially in an year in
which its loan origination activity was expected to increase substantially. The
implementation delays have diluted the strategy of containment of the operations of
INFONAVIT and attempts to improve the returns to pension fund contributors.
INFONAVIT continues to be the weak link in the pension reform program of the
Government.
37.   The memorandum recommending disbursemerLt of the loan"0 (Appendix B) most
appropriately summarizes the difficulties experienced with implementation of reforms to
INFONAVIT.
"As was noted in the President's Report for this operation, the reform program for
INFONAVIT represents, in the (Bank) Team's view, clearly a sub-optimal approach
constrained by the political realities of Mexico and the impossibility of modifying
INFONAVIT's Law and mortgage instrument at this stage. This has not changed
substantially with the actions described here. Key issues such as INFONAVIT's
mortgage instrument, governance structure, and implicit subsidies, the latter which end
up being borne by pensioners, remain hostage to furthLer improvement of INFONAVIT's
financial performance and its ability to pay a positive real return to pensioners. It is hoped
that close supervision by CNBV, the active involvement of SHCP at the highest level and
the greater openness for presenting INFONAVIT's financial results, will move the
outcome in a positive direction. In the meantime, there will continue to be an opportunity
cost for workers, particularly to those without access to INFONAVIT loans, to the extent
that the performance of INFONAVIT will be well below the return on workers' savings
in the privately managed pension funds (AFOREs)."
10 Dated December 8, 1998 from John Stein, Principal Operations Officer, LCSFP to Olivier Lafourcade,
Director,LCC IC.



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11) Implementation Completion Report: Page 23
V. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
38.   With the implementation period of the program limited to actions taken prior to
Board presentation, and the approval of certain reforms to INFONAVIT by its Board as a
condition of effectiveness, major factors affecting the program should be approached
from the design rather than the implementation perspective. Success of the reforms
undertaken in the second phase of CSDP relating to the private pension system depended
to a large extent on the issuance of guidelines and regulations by CONSAR aimed at
implementation and consolidation of the new pension system. This in turn hinged on the
technical work of the Mexican authorities and their commitment to the smooth
implementation of the fundamental reforms undertaken in the first phase. As far as
reforms to INFONAVIT were concerned, extensive technical work by the Mexican
authorities with the support of the Bank underpinned the formulation of the reform
program. However, the implementation of the reforms lay beyond the ability of the
Government alone in that the INFONAVIT law confers a degree of autonomy on
INFONAVIT that makes it difficult for the Government to enforce implementation of
reforms.
39.   The design of the overall reform program was sound with respect to both major
components - those relating to the consolidation of the private pension system and those
relating to INFONAVIT. There were no major issues in the implementation phase of the
reforms to the private pension system and with the commitment of the authorities to
establish a credible private pension system, the necessary actions were carried out
effectively and rapidly.
40.   The reforms to INFONAVIT were another matter. A number of policy choices to
reform INFONAVIT were evaluated by the Bank Team. From a technical perspective,
introducing greater worker choice in how workers' contributions in INFONAVIT are
invested would have been the preferred policy alternative along with deeper reforms
which would change the institution's governance structure and severely restrict its loan
origination activity with the existing mortgage instrument and credit rules. These reforms
would have required important changes to INFONAVIT's law which, in the Bank Team's
judgement, were not feasible. The policy approach adopted by the Government through
the implementation of the Convenio could have had a major impact on improving
INFONAVIT's operations and finances. It was seen as a major step in the reform process
which could have led over time to the achievement by INFONAVIT of market rates of
return for pension contributors thereby bringing sustainability to this important
component of the Government's social security reform program.
41.  It was recognized throughout the preparation and implementation phase that
without major changes to the INFONAVIT law, there was a risk that the proposed
reforms to INFONAVIT would not be implemented to the extent envisaged. The Bank
was also aware of the highly political nature of the institution and identified the
possibility that reforms may not be implemented (or the financial performance would not
improve) as a risk to the success of the project. The Bank Team viewed this as an



Page 24: Implementation Completion Report Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
acceptable risk since the Government recognized the importance of improving
INFONAVIT's financial performance to ensure better returns for workers and to
minimize the future fiscal costs of the reform. However, several political factors came
into play subsequent to the disbursement of the loan that affected the degree and speed of
implementation of the agreed upon reforms. The net result has been that while
INFONAVIT does have a significantly higher level of supervision by CNBV and is
changing the oversight of its external audit functions, it has not fundamentally changed
the way it does business. This implies that it is likely to continue generating poor
financial returns for the workers, thereby placing at risk the sustainability of the pension
reform.
VI. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
42.   The ICR of the first CSDP loan (Report No. 17771) concluded that the
sustainability of the first phase of reforms and that of the privately managed pension
system supported by CSDP appeared likely although it was subject to a number of risks.
It identified a few main risks to the sustainability of the program. First, there was the risk
of modifications to critical aspects of the program design such as restrictions on
administrative fees, delayed development of additional SIEFOREs, undermining of the
authority of the regulator, and loosening of restrictions in the investment regime due to
political considerations. It also identified the risk posed by the considerable weight of
INFONAVIT's future financial performance on the outcome of the reform. It concluded
that should the program of measures to restructure INFONAVIT fail to reverse its poor
mortgage lending practices, the Government's future pension liability could be
significantly higher than currently expected, since a greater number of affiliates would
choose the benefits under the old PAYG system.
43.   The implementation experience of the second phase of the CSDP makes it
difficult to reach a clear judgement on the sustainability of the system. The most
reasonable assessment of sustainability is that it is unclear at this stage. The main reasons
for this assessment are the divergent ways in which reforms to the two components of the
reformed pension system are proceeding. It is clear that the private pension system
consisting of the AFOREs regulated by CONSAR is on a sound footing. The
Government's steps to implement and consolidate the new system have been sound,
timely, and appropriate. Despite the risks and challenges that continue to be faced by the
new system, the high rate of affiliation, the substantial investment made by the AFOREs,
and an effective and well regarded regulator, all bode well for the sustainability of the
reform. Furthermore, the Mexican authorities designed the new pension system with
features that will help to avoid some of the problems encountered by other reforned
systems in the region. Specifically, (i) CONSAR is empowered to address any flaws or
inadequacies in the legal and regulatory framework as they arise, and need not rely on
Congress to effect significant changes to the operation of the system; (ii) under the
Mexican system each AFORE is permitted to set its own commission structure, is not
required to show a minimum rate of retum, and carL reward its affiliates for every year



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 25
they choose to maintain its services, thus providing all the correct incentives for market
forces to operate unhindered; and (iii) even in its first year the new system serves an
affiliated population equivalent to the combined number of formal-sector workers
covered in Chile and Argentina, thus providing the emerging industry with a sizable and
growing demand for its services, as well as the potential for cost-reducing economies of
scale.
44.    During the period of this assessment the new private pension system weathered
the storms of the Asian, Russian, and Brazilian financial crises and their impacts on the
Mexican market relatively well. The regulators have taken appropriate steps to guide the
sound development of the industry while not succumbing to pressures from the industry
for a more relaxed investment regime as in other Latin American countries'". The
industry consolidation that began soon after the end of the first switching period in which
four AFOREs merged with others has also been handled well. While there are open issues
on which the Government and the regulators need to take action such as authorizing
additional SIEFOREs, fine tuning the transfer mechanism, and formulating ways to
reduce administrative costs, it is clear that the basis of a sound privately managed pension
system has been laid.
45.    However, by itself, the private pension system is largely inadequate to provide a
reasonable pension to the majority of the workers. The second component of the pension
system is INFONAVIT - which takes almost 40% of the workers' social security
contributions. The Government has taken several steps to bring INFONAVIT under
greater supervision and some reform actions have been initiated to improve the financial
performance of INFONAVIT. The publicizing of the poor returns of INFONAVIT
through the annual statements to the workers has served to highlight the importance of
reforms to the institution. The Bank's conditionality in its second loan also brought
INFONAVIT to the center-stage of the social security reform process. As detailed above,
the implementation of these actions has not proceeded as anticipated, largely due to
intense political pressures. All the activity on INFONAVIT has not changed the essential
character of the institution nor its ways of doing business. This implies that on almost
40% of their social security contributions workers continue to get poor financial
performance and often negative real rates of interest. In this scenario, it is unclear that the
overall program of reform can be sustainable.
46.   It is important to keep in mind that the sustainability of the new system can only
be judged over the long run when the first of the transition generation workers opt for
their accumulated retirement assets, rather than the IMSS package of benefits under the
During the 1994/95 Mexican crisis, Argentine private pension funds incurred substantial losses on their
government bond holdings due to rapid and sustained rise in interest rates (which implied rapidly
falling bond prices). The pension fund regulator then allowed the creation of an "investment account"
in which approximately 25% of system assets were held to maturity and valued at cost rather than at
market prices. This allowed the pension funds to understate the actual losses. While this began as a
response to the crisis, it has by now become institutionalized, with about 30% of system assets
currently being held in the investment account.



Page 26: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)
lifetime switch option, in approximately twenty years. Hence, it is too early to make a
definitive conclusion on the sustainability of the system. It is clear though that unless the
Government takes significantly stronger measures at improving INFONAVIT's financial
performance it is very likely that the full benefits of moving to a private pension system
will not be realized.
VII. BANK PERFORMAINCE
47.   Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period (due to the nature of the lending instrument) of the second phase of the
CSDP was highly satisfactory.  The Bank responded in a timely fashion to the
Government's request for financial and technical support for a comprehensive reform and
consolidation of its pension system. The Bank continued the policy dialogue that it had
begun during the preparation of the first phase of the reformn program and identified a
concrete set of reforms that could be supported by a second loan. The Bank was also
effective in raising the awareness of policy makers regarding the importance of
implementing and consolidating the reforms to the pension system undertaken in the first
phase of the program and of the importance of the financial performance of INFONAVIT
to the sustainability of the overall reform process.
48.   The preparation of the two loans supporting the two phases of the CSDP can be
considered to have been a continuous process. Right from the beginning of the reform
process, the Bank recognized the political sensitivities involved in undertaking a
substantial reform of the social security system. To give the Borrower a greater degree of
flexibility in the implementation of such a politically sensitive reform, the Bank chose an
innovative lending instrument that would introduce a progressive structure to the
program's conditionality, and engage the Government in a continuing dialogue on
contractual savings reform. Although only time will tell as to what degree the long-termn
aims of the reform will be achieved, the choice of the single-tranche instrument within
the framework of an agreed medium term strategy with the government, appears to have
been reasonable.
49.   The Bank's agreement to keep a low profile during the reform process showed
further flexibility and concern for the client's needs, and was well handled. This is
especially evident in the way the technical work underlying the conditionality proposed
for INFONAVIT was formulated. An interesting aspect of the CSDP II loan preparation
and implementation was that the entire reform program for INFONAVIT was developed
solely in coordination with the Government and with no formal meetings between the
management of INFONAVIT and the Bank. The Government had put in place a small
reform team in INFONAVIT and this team had its owvn problems getting access to data
regarding INFONAVIT's financial performance. The Bank respected the politically
charged atmosphere surrounding the proposed reforms to INFONAVIT and operated
within prevailing constraints but nevertheless agreed upon a reform package with the
Government, which if implemented fully, could have had a significant impact on the



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11) Implementation Completion Report: Page 27
financial performance of INFONAVIT and on the sustainability of the overall private
pension system.
50.   From the fall of 1995, when the preparation of the first phase of the CSDP
commenced to the summer of 1998 when the second CSDP loan was presented to the
Board, Bank staff conducted intensive policy and technical dialog with an exceptionally
qualified and experienced inter-institutional team of Mexican counterparts that
spearheaded the diagnostic and technical work involved in the reform. The Bank correctly
identified that different political dynamics would be at play during different stages of the
reform process. In the initial phase, the question of whether to undertake a reform would
be the critical issue. After the first phase of the reform was completed and the necessary
legislation passed, the focus would shift to the more technical aspects of how to
implement the reform and the role of INFONAVIT in the reform process. The Bank
chose to support these two separate phases with two separate loans and the strategy seems
to have been appropriate.
51.   Specifically in the second phase of the reform, the Bank's project team brought to
bear international expertise and know-how from multiple departments within the Bank
and from external consultants with experience in reforming public pension systems,
assessing costs of private pension systems, asset management and risk management in
private pension systems, and reform of financial institutions in general and housing
finance institutions in particular, to assist Mexican authorities in implementing the
reforms designed in the first phase of the program and to formulate reform strategies for
INFONAVIT. The Bank team provided advice to CONSAR on asset management and
risk management issues by bringing in staff with practical experience in managing
pension funds. One of the most well regarded academics in assessing costs of private
pension systems was brought in to prepare a paper and provide advice on this aspect to
the Mexican authorities, while another consultant with global expertise in restructuring
financial institutions and with substantial experience in restructuring Mexican banks was
brought in to address issues in improving the financial performance of INFONAVIT.
Furthermore, the team took advantage of the comparative analysis that went into the
preparation of Averting the Old Age Crisis,"2 a Bank publication that stimulated
international awareness of the need for reform of PAYG pension systems, by inviting an
author of the study into the peer review process while the second peer reviewer - who
headed the Investment Management Department of the Bank - had extensive expertise in
managing large pension funds and treasuries. The multidisciplinary approach of the
implementation team throughout the second phase of the program was evident in the
Bank staff that worked on the loan. Staff with expertise in capital market development,
banking sector restructuring, housing, and macroeconomics worked on the team. From
this wealth of technical expertise, the team was able to formulate a matrix of reforms to
address the concerns of the Bank's senior management for the implementation,
12Averting the Old Age Crisis: Policies that Protect the Old and Promote Growth World Bank Policy
Research Report, 1994 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington
D.C., Oxford University Press



Page 28: Implementation Completion Report Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
consolidation, and sustainability of the new pension system. An important aspect of the
successful functioning of the Bank team was the substantial continuity that was
maintained in the core teams during the preparation and implementation of both phases.
The continuity in the teams fostered the development of mutual trust and respect with the
clients and created good working relationships.
52.   While the first phase of the CSDP and the associated first loan had extensive
interaction and coordination with the IDB as a co-financier, the second phase had less of
coordination, since some of the issues addressed by the Bank in the second phase were
made part of the conditionality for the IDB's first two-tranche loan. In the first phase of
the CSDP, differences between the Bank and the IDB in the conditions each established
for the loans - for eg: formulation of the SIEFORE investment regime, made discussions
with the Mexican authorities for loan effectiveness problematic, and time consuming to
resolve. In contrast, in the second phase of the CSDP the discussions with the authorities
were much more focused on the Bank's proposed conditionality. The IDB disbursed its
second tranche of the loan based largely on the actions taken by the Government during
the implementation of the second phase of the CSDF' which the Bank chose to support
through a separate operation.
VIII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   Considerable praise for the performance of the authorities in Mexico was given in
interviews with Bank staff associated with the CSDP II loan. Borrower performance in
the identification, preparation and implementation of the second phase of the program
was highly satisfactory. Under the leadership of the SHCP, an exceptionally qualified,
dedicated, and multi-disciplinary core reform team was created, that maintained a clearly
coordinated, inter-institutional reform program. As far as the consolidation of the private
pension system was concerned, all of the necessary regulatory and technical actions were
carried out with a minimum of delay. A small, but extremely well qualified team worked
with the Bank on technical studies underlying the proposed reforms to INFONAVIT. The
team succeeded in achieving considerable success in placing INFONAVIT on the formal
reform agenda in the first place and subsequently obtaining agreement at the highest
levels of Government on the proposed conditionality for the reforms. The fact that
political realities have forced delays in the implementation of the reforms agreed upon
should not detract from the commitment brought by the Mexican team in formulation and
attempts at implementation of the reforms. The Mexican authorities should be
commended on the degree of professional capacity that they brought to the achievement
of the second-phase objectives of the program, and for their commitment to the reform of
their social security system even when faced by the challenges of a difficult political and
economic climate.
54.   Sensitive to the political economy surrounding the reform, the Government was
eager to minimize the direct involvement of the Bank, and to take on the bulk of
responsibility for the preparatory work.  This was especially evident in the work
involving reforms of INFONAVIT where the Bank team essentially operated through the



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II) Implementation Completion Report: Page 29
reforn team put in place by SHCP in INFONAVIT. The Bank teamn had no access to
INFONAVIT's management.
55.   Staff at CONSAR have put into place the necessary regulatory infrastructure upon
which the new system has rapidly grown. CONSAR has played a key role in sound
implementation of the reform process and is considered one of the pillars for the
sustainability of the pension reform. The Government maintained the integrity of the
reform process by keeping in place the core team in CONSAR that had been responsible
for the first phase of the reform process and providing needed support through the FTAL.
The authority's various accomplishments in the areas of monitoring and inspection of
AFORE activity, publicity and promoting worker awareness of the new system, have
contributed to the transparent and efficient management of workers' pension savings.
CONSAR is now well regarded as one of the top quality regulators of private pension
systems in Latin America.
56.   Substantial continuity was maintained in the Government teams (both from
CONSAR and SHCP) that worked on both the CSDP loans and this was an important
element of the productive relationship between the Bank and the Government. The
continuity in the teams fostered the development of mutual trust and respect with the
clients and created good working relationships.
IX. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
57.   As detailed in the discussion above the overall outcome of the project is
considered satisfactory. Of the two major components of the project, the one dealing with
the implementation and consolidation of the new private pension system can be
considered highly satisfactory while the second dealing with reforms to INFONAVIT can
only be considered partially successful. However, given the importance of INFONAVIT
to the sustainability of the overall CSDP of the Government, it is appropriate to rate the
implementation of the overall project as satisfactory. However, it is important to keep in
mind that it is too early to make a conclusive judgment on the operation of the Mexican
system, or to compare its performance with that of other reforned systems in the region.
X. FUTURE OPERATIONS
58.   As indicated in the CAS (report No. 19289-MX discussed by the Board on June 8,
1999), future Bank lending in the area of pension reform is expected to support a third
CSDP during FYOO/O1. The main areas on which the proposed operation is likely to
concentrate on are: (i) substantial achievements in reform of INFONAVIT in order to
place both its own financial performance and that of the overall pension system on a
sustainable basis; (ii) strengthening of CONSAR's independence; (iii) introduction of
greater portfolio diversification including investment in equities; (iv) design and
implementation of measures to contain the administrative costs of the private pension
system; (v) implementation of measures to reduce the cost of the disability and life
insurance scheme; (vi) implementation of measures aimed at sound development of



Page 30: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
annuities markets (vii) ensuring the financial viability of the pension schemes for public
sector workers, workers in public sector and parastatal enterprises and state level pension
systems; and (viii) identification of specific actions to increase coverage if reformed
system has no significant impact. The specific conditionality of the third single-tranche
adjustment loan will arise directly from the needs identified by the Government and
reforms found supportable by the Bank.
XI. KEY LESSONS LEALRNED
59.   The principal lessons learned from the implementation experience of the second
phase of the CSDP are:
(i) Importance of Client Commitment to Reform. The implementation of the private
pension fund system has been a major success and indicates the importance of client
commitment to and ownership of the reform program. The Government's strong
commitment to the reform of the private pension system ensured that the design,
negotiation, and implementation of the reform was done in a collaborative environment
with necessary technical and financial support of the Bank. The client played a
leadership role in ensuring the credibility of the program and the Bank provided
soundtechnical advice and disseminated best practice. The cooperative environment of
work between the Bank and the Govermment ensured that this part of the reform program
was a success.
(ii) Difficulty of Dealing with Reform of A High!ly Political Institution. The less
successful experience with reform of INFONAVIT is an excellent example of the
difficulties of reforming an institution that is highly political with entrenched vested
interests and traditionally a strong source of patronage. It was clear throughout the
process of project preparation and implementation that the Government itself was
strongly committed to reform of the institution. However, the governance structure of the
institution continues to give it an enormous amount of independence from the
Government and the Government's commitment was siimply not enough to implement the
necessary reforms to the full extent. From the Bank's point of view, dealing with
INFONAVIT was simultaneously critically important and difficult to implement. In the
design of CSDP - the first pension reform loan - the Bank accepted the Government's
decision to include INFONAVIT in the reform process. While this decision was sound,
given the large fraction of pension contributions controlled by INFONAVIT, it also
introduced a "problem" in project design that was almost certain to continue to be a
thorny issue in future Bank operations in the sector. The Bank displayed keen sensitivity
to the politically charged nature of the reforms and kept a low profile throughout the
negotiations and implementation. This project must be one of the few instances of Bank
operations where reforms to an institution were negotiated without any direct official
contact with the institution involved. Based on the experience with INFONAVIT, the



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11) Implementation Completion Report: Page 31
Bank needs to keep in mind that reforrn of political institutions is extremely difficult,
even with a committed Government. Despite all the difficulties, however, it is critical to
continue working on such reform issues in order to achieve the objective of improving the
returns on pension contributions to workers and placing the overall social security system
on a sustainable basis.
(iii) Importance of Structuring Loan Conditionality. Bank operations dealing with
reform of politically sensitive issues such as social security call for ensuring that the loan
conditionality is adequate for program success while being practically achievable. This is
often a difficult balancing act, given the limited amount of political capital available for
the reform effort. In such situations, the Bank may sometimes need to structure its loan
conditionality so that disbursement occurs after actual evidence of implementation,
rather than after agreement to implement. An alternative would be to evaluate the
conditions necessary for continued Bank support of the future reform process
incorporating the lessons learned from the support provided thus far. The limited success
with INFONAVIT indicates that the Government simply could not ensure full
implementation of reforms that it managed to get approval of by INFONAVIT's Board.
(iv) Selection of An Appropriate Instrument. The experience with both the first two
CSDP loans indicates that the choice of a single-tranche adjustment operation (STO) as the
lending instrument by the Bank was appropriate. The STO is a lending vehicle designed by
the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of lengthy adjustment operations from
significant political shifts in borrowing countries. Through the use of the STO, the Bank
reduced the risk of delays and failure in the achievement of the program's long term aims
by locking the client into an overly ambitious and politically sensitive policy agenda. Had
the Bank chosen a traditional multiple tranche option, it is unclear whether even the limited
reforms that have been achieved in INFONAVIT would have been possible. This is borne
out by the experience of the IDB, which chose a multiple tranche instrument with relatively
more general conditionality. The disbursement of the IDB's second tranche occurred based
largely on the more specific actions taken by the Government as part of CSDP II
conditionality.  The STO and its requirement that reform be implemented prior to
disbursement provides the Bank with valuable leverage that can be used to make the
institution a more effective partner in the development process.
(v) Importance of Team Continuity. There was substantial continuity of teams - both
on the Government's side and on the Bank's side - during the preparation and
implementation of both the CSDP loans. The good working relationships and mutual
trust and respect that was engendered due to this stability of teams considerably
facilitated work on a complex reform.






Page 32: Implementation Completion Report  Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
PART TWO: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5:      Program Financing
Table 6:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8:      Bank Resources: Missions



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 33
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial,        Negligible      Not applicable 
Macro Policies                      E                              
Sector Policies                     [                                 LI                 LI
Financial Objectives                                 WI
Institutional Development            a                                L oZ 
Physical Objectives                 El                                El Ll
Poverty Reduction                                    L                Ll
Gender Issues                          ]             []               I]
Other Social Objectives                              LI               L                  E]
Environmental Objectives                                              El ]  LI
Public Sector Management                             LI               LI                 LI
Private Sector Development                           LI 0                                LI
Other (specify)                     f                LI               LI
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(00                       (V)                          )       I
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
(V1)                     (/)                        (/)
Identification                       Ri                                                  I 
Preparation Assistance                                        LI                         LI
Appraisal                                                     L                          LI
Supervision                                                   LI                         LI



Page 34: Implementation Completion Report     Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
Hig
D. Borrower Performance                           satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
(V)             (V)              (a/)
Preparation                                                       Li 00
Implementation                                                    1j 0i
Covenant Compliance                                               aa
Operation (if applicable)                        E:                                L0
Highly                                                Highly     |
E. Assessment of Outcome                 satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
i)               (L0 i)                               L)



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)  Implementation Completion Report: Page 35
Loan/credit title             Purpose              Year of Approval              Status
Preceding operations
1. Financial Sector       Improve safety and                 1995            US$ 10.0 miUion
Technical Assistance    soundness of financial                             Undisbursed
Loan & Supplemental    system
2. Financial Sector        Restore solvency and               1995            Closed
Restructuring Loan      soundness of banking
system
3. Contractual Savings     Introduce legal and               1996             Closed
Development Program     regulatory framework for
Loan I                  new system design and
issue regulatory regime
and assess fiscal costs of
transition.
|Steps in Project Cycle                    Date PlanneDaeAtl
Identification                         September 1997                September 1997.
Preparation                            December 1997                 October 1997-April 1998
Appraisal                              January 1998                  May 1998
Negotiations                           February 1998                  May 1998
Letter of Development Policy           April 1998                    May 1998
Board Presentation                     April 1998                    June 1998
Signing                                September 1998                September 1998
Effectiveness                          December 1998                 December 1998
First Tranche Release                  December 1998                 December 1998
Project Completion                     December 1998                 December 1998
Loan Closing                           June 30 1999                  June 30 1999



Page 36: Implementation Completion Report    Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
Appraisal Estimate                     400
Actual                                 400
Actual as % of Estimate                100
Date of Full Disbursement: 14 December 1998
Source                      Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                      Actual (US$M)
IBRD                                   400                                      400
Total                                  400                                      400



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP II)       Implementation Completion Report: Page 37
Agreement &       Covenant Present Fulfillment date                Description of                 Comments
Section           type     status                                  covenant
Section 5.0 1(a)       3          C        September 1998 Entrance into contractual arrangements with Effectiveness
the Guarantor satisfactory to the Bank   condition
Section 5.01(b)        10         C        June 1998-      Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy    Effectiveness
December 1998  framework consistent with objectives of the  condition
program
Section 5.01(c)        9          C        December 1998 Exchange of views on progress achieved in  Effectiveness
carrying out the program                 condition
Section 5.01(d)        12         C        December 1998 Adoption of appropriate new system of      Effectiveness
external financial controls by INFONAVIT  condition
Section 5.01(e)        12         C        December 1998  Receipt of revised table of maximum credit  Effectiveness
amounts (reflecting borrower's ability to    condition
pay) approved by INFONAVIT's Board
Section 5.01(f)        12         C        December 1998 Review of credit rules and loan rationing    Effectiveness
mechanism by INFONAVIT and               condition
submission of any necessary revisions to its
Board fDr approval.
[a] Due to the single-tranche character of the loan instrument, most of the conditions under the loan were met before
Board presentation. For evidence of compliance with policy conditions, see Matrix in Appendix A.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                  8.   Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from     9.    Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. =Poject implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            11.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart finding                                     allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing   12.    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                 regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                          13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
S. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



Page 38: Implementation Completion Report   Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)
Stage of                                   Planned                       Actual
Project Cycle                                                                                I
Weeks        US$ (000)       Weeks        US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal                       85           228.4          108.7         226.1
Appraisal-Negotiation-Board Approval           21            50.4           6.9            17
Supervision                                   33            85.8           15.2           28.2
Completion                                     10            30              8            24
TOTAL                                        139           364.6          130.8         271.3



Mexico: Second Contractual Savings Development Program (CSDP 11)            Implementation Completion Report: Page 39
Performance Rating 
Number               Slpecial zed    Implemen-    Develop-         
Stage of           Month/                        of       Days in   Staff Skills      tation         men'       Types of
Project Cycle       Year                        Persons    Field     Represented       Status      Objectives    Problems
Through           IDENTIFICATION
Appraisal         September 21-27, 1997       8          7           a, b, c, d, e,
PREPARATION                                       f, g
December 1-7, 1997          7          7          a ,b, c, d, c, f
January 11-16, 1998         3          6          a, d, f
February, 1998              1          3          a
March 8-18,1998             6          11         a, b, d, e, f
Appraisal         AppraisallPre-Negotiation                                              _
through Board     May 5-6, 1998               6          0           a, b, c, d, e, f
Approvalll
Supervision       Throughout Preparation      various    various                        HS             I HS       None
Completion        ICRICompletion Mission                                          |         _      i_
April 18-24,1999            1          7          e
Key of Specialized Staff Skills
a. Senior Financial Economist/Task Manager
b. Principal Operations Officer
c. Financial Sector Specialist
d. Housing Finance Specialist
e. Financial Economist
f Consultants: Pensions, Financial Institutions
g. Capital Markets Specialist



I~~~~~~~
MEXICP- Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP IIu Ervidence of Compliance wit Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall progran irplementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement
conditions. Nurnber in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
aintenance of a         Maintenancs of a sound macroeconomic         Maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework consistent with the policy objemves and
supportive              frarnework consistent withi the policy       programn described in the Letter of Sector Policy.
macroeconomic           objectives and program described in the Letter
program.                of Sector Policy.
Enact legal changes for            periittgr workers: On December    CONSAR issued additional regulations (circulares) on:  S
the reform the PAYG         1,95,a new Social Security Law was    *Disclosure:
pillar and shift toward     enacted to move from a Government            *general information (Circular 19-1 [11/]17/971);
private rnanagement of      pay-as-you-go, defined benefits scheme 
pension funds and           to a mandatory, defined contributions        *accounting and balance sheet (Circulares 12-1 [4116197] and 12-4 [3/11/98]);
ensure timely and           scheme permitting private management.       *monthly report to be sent by each AFORE to CONSAR (Circular 25-1 E 12/1 1/97]);
flexible regulatory         The new system was implemented              *  general information disclosure by AFOREs (Circular 9-1 [1/10/97]);
framework (CSDP I).         beginning on July 1, 1997.                      p
* On April 26, 1996, the Ley de los Sistemas * prospectus for each SIEFORE (Cir. 10-1 [1/14/97] and 10-2 [6/30/97]);
de Ahorro para el Retiro was enacted and    *  Individual Statement to be sent to workers with the fnancial performance and
Implement and fine-         includes, inter alia, general principles        balances of the AFORE and INFONAVIT accounts (Circular 8-2 [2/12/98]). And
rune the legal and                                                                                                                                           (D
tunerhegulegal fram k      related to: (i) entry and exit procedures for  *  Confidentiality of individual account infornation by entities involved in the operation   n.
regulatory framework        AFOREs; (i) disclosure requements; (iii)        ofthe system (Circular 23-1  12/2/97]).
For    REs and             conflict of interest; and (iv) AFOREs' and   *  Administration of individual accounts still in the Central Account:
the success of the new      SEFOREs' operating rules.                        rules relating to the outsourcing of informnation to workers in the Cuenta
pension system (CSDP   *  Regulations (Circulares) issued: (a) by            Concentradora (Circular 27-1 [2/20/98]);
CONSAR relating to: (i) eligibility



MEXICO- Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP rec                  Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
II)  requirements to establish AFOREs; (ii)  *  the AFORE maquiladora wil1 chargeafeeof.15%offlows(Circular29-1
commission and fAe structure; (iii)              [2/27198]).
capitalization; and (iv) marketing; and (b)
by SHCP relating to: authorization of
foreign ownership of AFOREs.
Authorization process                                                *   CONSAR authorized 17 AFOREs in a tiobely tashion, ensuring that foreign-owned
AFOREs receive equal treatment with Mexican-owned AFOREs     a
Affiliation process         C                                            CONSAR issued the general rules govering the affiliation contract between the worker and
his/her chosen AFORE (Circular hab-g1 [2e18/97]) ertd
a  Affiliated approximnately 60% of potential IMSS workers to chosen AFORE during the
first vear of operation of the systelm (kas of 2/28/98 over 98% of potential IMSS' workers
have affiliated).
Switching ruies                                                      *   CONSAR issued Circulares 24-1 (12/10/97) and 28-1 (1/8/98) regulating the switching
of workers' accounts among AFOREs
|Ensure the smooth and   * Legal and regulatory framework           |     Regulatory framework. CONSAR has issued the following Circulares regulating the
|efficient operation of     established for CONSAR, IMSS and        |     functioning ofthe collection and record-keeping system: 7-1 (1/9/97); 16-1(6/30/97); 20-
the collection and          INFONAVITf to use one number (that of   |     I (I11/1 1/97); 22-1 (12/10/97); 20-2 (312f98)
record-keeping process      IMSS) to unify past SAR accounts and    |     Unique identification number. Generated the unique identification number called Clave
l                    ~~~~~~~SIEFORE accounts                  |    Unica de Registro de Poblacion (CURP) for at least 25% of potential affiliates by
l                 *  ~~~~~~CONSAR developed and issued rules for      December 1997 (as of 2/28/98 over 4 million CtJRPs - equivalent to approximately 34%
identification of accounts and account  |    o  cons-hdbe  eeae)



MEXIC0- Contractual Savings Development Programn - CSDP H., Evidence of Compliance witht Policy Actionsl
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program imnplementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement l
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
transfers to eliminate multiple accounts for  *  Computerized collection system. A computer (diskette-based) software -the Unique
individual contributors                    Autodetenrmination System (SUA - Sistema Unico de Autodeterminacion) was developed
*Agreement signed between                    and agreed upon on 5127198. All employers with more than four employees are using it.
CONSAR/SHCP and IMSS on an action    *  Cost cutting. CONSAR has issued regulations on the maximum fees to be charged by
plan to improve the efficiency of the IMSS  PROCESAR for processing, reconciling, and dispersing information the administration on
to ensure overall implementation of the    individual accounts. The maximum administration charge is P$10.80 per account per
new operational scheme including: (i)      year (Circular 14-1 [6/27/97])
updating IMSS database, and (ii)
strengthening the individualization of
accounts
cm
5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
Identify opportunities                                             *CONSAR finalized a study in October 1997 comparing commissions charged byM
for cost-cutting to lower                                             AFOREs in a standardized format. The study simulates eventual commissions paid and
administration costs                                                  benefits received under the different AFORES commission structures.
and to increase arnount|
of fuinds available to|
pay benefits to retirees
P
Transfer of retirement   *  Adopted transfer arrangements for      *  CONSAR (Circular 24-1 [12/10/97]); SHCP (Oficio No.305 [12/10/97]) and Banco de
sub-accounts from          accumulated SAR balances (5/1992-96)       Mexico have issued detailed processes establishing the means to authorize transfers and to
Central Bank to private   from Central Bank to AFOREs over a          ensure that contributors are informed about the transfer
investment managers.       period of four years                    *  Transferred at least 20% of SAR92 total accumulated assets from the Central Bank to
individual worker AFORE accounts by end-April 1998 (as of April 8, 1998 total assets
transferred - P$10,781 billion - represented over 30% of SAR92 total accumulated assets)



MEXICO- Contractual SavingsNDevelopment Program -CSDP II. Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
flexible regulatory       related to the investiment management         requirement that at least 5 1% of the SIEFORE investments be made in inflation
system for the            regime.                                       indexed instruments
investment of pension    *  Investment Regime issued by CONSAR      *  Cash holdings. Initially SIEFOREs not allowed to hold any cash balances.
on 6/29/97                                    SIEFOREs are now allowed to hold up to P$250,000 in cash balances.
Investment Policies                                                 *  Repurchase Agreements. Requirement that SIEFOREs hold no cash also implied that  (D
(continued)                                                          all money received through contributions had to be invested immediately. This  >
requirement significantly constrained investment plans of the AFOREs. CONSAR
issued regulations allowing SIEFOREs to invest in repurchase agreements or repos.
*  Asset Valuation. CONSAR earlier issued guidelines that valuation of asset holdings
of the SIEFOREs should be done on a daily basis using a vector of prices published
by the Mexican Stock Exchange. Prices were sometimes erroneous (and amended
later by the Sock Exchange on the following day) or not available. Regulations
issued to clarify that SIEFOREs were authorized to use most recent and accurate
price vector available
*  Others. CONSAR has clarified earlier investment regulations so that limits on
various investments should be adhered to at the time of investment
Risk Management: o                                                  Initiated operation of two committees - the Comite de Analisis de Riesgos (the Risk
Ensure sustainability of                                            Analysis Committee) and the Comite de Valuacion (The Valuation Committee) to oversee
system by getting a                                                 CONSAR's operations in the risk management area
measure of, and



ensure effec  MEXvCe- Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP II a Evodence of Compliance with Policy Actions
se(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program i eplementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement
and SIEFO s.improvedsupervconditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
requiring the AFOREs                   p
to manage the risks to
r                                  which the investors'
funds are exposed
Strengthen CONSAR to  *On April 26, 1996 the Ley de los Sistemas   *CONSAR has developed customized systems software that feeds data on affiliation, the
ensure effective           de Ahorro para el Retiro was enacted,       status of retirement accounts, SIEFORE investment activity, and the eligibility of
supervision of AFOREs      including inter alia: (i) establishment of  acquired instruments to the department's analysts on a daily basis. Financial data on
and SIEFOREs.              improved supervision scheme for             SIEFORE investment regulated by Circular 21-1 [11/11/97]. Also establishes          GQ
CONSAR; strengthening of its                methodology for valuation of eligible investoent instruments.                       m
enforcement powers; and (ii) strengthening   CONSAR to submit a report to Congress every six months on the operation of he new
of CONSAR's govetance through a             system (report presented in February J 998 covered the July-December, 1997 period).
reexamination of the Board's composition.   First bimonthly statistical bulletin to be published by June 1998.
  Finalized draft regulations by CONSAR
relating to surveillance and inspection
procedures.
*  Agreed upon and initiated Implementation
of a timne-bound business programn to
strengthen CONSAR's super-visory
capacity.



SpIntend      MEXICn- Contractual Savings Develops ient Program - CSDP byp Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program imnplementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement l
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)l
Strengthen regulation    *On April 26, 1996 the ley General de     *  On January 3, 1997 the Insurance Law (Ley General de Instituciones y Sociedades
and supervision by the     Instituciones y LSociedades Mutualistas de  Mutualistas de Seguros) was modified to incorporate changes to the provision of IV
Insurance                  Seguros was enacted laying the framework    benefits under the reformed Social Security Law and make operational the provision of
Superintendency            for the deveIopment and supervision of the  such benefits by private insurance companies
(CNSF)                     annuities market                         *  CNSF issued a number of regulations to make operational the new scheme including: (i)
operational rules (Circular S-22.1, 2/13/97); (ii) contractual documentation (Circular S-
22.4, 3/31/97); (iii) format to be used by the insurance companies in making their offer to  Fe
the worker (Circular S-22.10, 6/13/97); (iv) rules on additional benefits which private  cr,
insurance companies can provide to the worker (Circular S-22.3.2, 11/13/97); and (v)  (D
marketing rules (Circular S-22.1.3, 1/8/98).
* On March 5, 1998 a Department in charge of supervision of pension-related insurance
(pDirectinon Genera de Supervision del Seguro de Pensiones) was established within
Update periodically,   *Completed sensitivity analysis and          *The Government has completed the 1997 update to the sensitivity analysis of the fiscal
and ensure the             satisfactory evaluation of actuarial        costs of transition and the evaluation of actuarial methodologies and the database
transparency of the        methodologies and data base
fiscal cost of reformns.
Minimize the fiscal cost  Several measures were introduced to imnprove    *  INFONAVIT, SHCP and CNBV signed an agreement on 3/27/98 [the Convenio],
of pension reformn and    INFONAVIT's financial performance. They      approved by INFONAVIT's Board of Governors on 3130/98, to restore INFONAVIT to
ensure workers an      included:                                       financial health within a 5-year period through a major operational and financial
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ adeuat                                  resnsionin byr_graX



MEXdCo- Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP II: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions                            
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
assuring that funds        National Banking and Securities             INFONAVIT has accepted new accounting standards to be issued by CNBV which are
r                                invested in  Commission (CNBV).       consistent with rules applicable to commercial banks for mortgage loans
INFONAVIT  ~        AORE achee Asoktkndo INFONAVIT's            aproeobrtfNAoliBoroo Gvrr
INOAreT rates hifreve  *  CAnest  ting th  INFONAVIT' lw(rticle    *  LNFONAVIT has stopped accruing, and created provisions against, interest and
an market itesfrestun      by external intemrational auditors. CNBV    indexation of non perfoueaing loans
enus are i redit   o       commissioned an exteural audit and          r INFONAVIT has provisioned for its non-perfovring loans as required by CNBV and
workers' pension           wasrtfoli reviete auiof ) INOAudit coPmplte  based on the findings of the external auditing firm and CNBV's inspections.
accou~~~~~nt  iM        arch     1998. ..  ^,,   ............................ 
Disclosure according to  aw  to the general     Establishment of an appropriate system of exteral fiancial controls beginning in 1999
public as well as contributors in their     Minutes of theSurvedlance Committee (Comision de Vigilancia) meeting dated October  I'd
individual account statements of the rate of  21, 1998 i
l                   ~~~~~~~return on pension accounts, including the    *Submission of revised table of maximum credit amounts agreed with CNBV and   (
l                   ~~~~~~~AFORES and INFONAVIT.                  approved by INFONAVIT's Board of Governorsl 
Changes in tihe INFONAVIT law (Article        SLetterfirom CNBVto SHCP dated November 23, 1998
43 bis). The revised 1997 law allows     *  Review  of credit rules and loan rationing mechanism, and if necessary, submission of
l                   ~~~~~~~INFONAVI I to undertake "virtual"      revised rules to INFONAVIT's Board of Governorsl
l                   ~~~~~~~cofinancing arrangements for mortgages    >  Letter from CNB V to SHCP dated November 23, 1998
l                   ~~~~~~~through cornmercial banks and otherl
financial institutions.
Advance in the                                                     * ISSSTE
diagnostic and strategic                                             *Finalized actuarial and financial diagnostic by an internationally recognized actuarial
preparatory work for                                                     firm
future reforms to                                                    *  Government has initiated the detailed evaluation of the feasibility and the fiscal transition



MEXICO- Contractuaf  Savings  Development Program - CSDP IIh  Evidence of Compriance  with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as Joan or guarantee agreement
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
a assuring that funds       National Banking and Securities           *   NFONAVliT has accepted new accounting standards fO be issued by CNBV which are
invested in                 Commission (CNBV).                           consistent with rules applicable to commercial banks for mortgage loans
INFOarket rat retr          A stock taking of INFONAVIT's portfolio                b INFONAVIT       Bo ard ofeGoerors
market ratesern Ch         atnges  innthemionaV  lawd (ArtiCle    -  Lexatron rom   noppeCNB nno lccd anovembedro23,n199
and the i4terest            commissioned an exted9al audit and           inReview  of credit rrnd  loanr
revenues are credited to    portfolio review of INFONAVIT (KPMG         ei NFONAVIT has provisioned for its non-performing loans as required by CNBV and
workers' pension            was the selected auditor). Audit completed   based on the fVindings of the extedal auditing fm  and CNBV's inspections.
accounts~hruh oueril aksad te
vanceint ein March 1998.
Disclosure according to law to the general       Establishment of an appropriate system of extenal financial controls beginning in 1999
public as well as contributors in their      Minutes of the Suuraillance Cfonlittee (Comision  ine rigilancia) meetingdated October i
individual account statements of the rate of  21, 1998                                                                            OQ
return on pension accounts, including the  *  Submission of revised table of maximum  credit amounts agreed with CNBV ands
AFORES and INFONAVIT.                        approved by INFONAVII'fs Board of Governors 
* Changes in the INFONAVIT law (Article        Letter from CNB V to SHCP dated November 23, I998
43 bis). s ne revised i997 law allows    * Review of credit rules and loan rationing mechanism, and if necessary, submission of
INFONAVIT to undertake "virtual"             revised r-ules to fNFONAVIT's Board of Governors
cofinancing arrangements for mortgages       Letterfrom CNB Vto SHC'P dated November 23, 1998
through comnuercial banks and other
financial institutions.
Advance in the                                                       * ISSSTE
diagnostic and strategic                                               * Finalized actuarial and financial diagnostic by an internationally recognized actuarial
preparatory work for                                                       firmn
|future reforms to               ..                                     * Government has initiated the detailed evaluation of the feasibility and the fiscal transition



MEXICO- Contractual Savings Development Program - CSDP II: Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
(Actions in italics are included in Letter of Sector Policy only, were monitored as part of the overall program implementation and not as loan or guarantee agreement
conditions. Number in bold serve as cross-reference for evidence in the project file.)
schemes covering                                                         costs of alternative reform strategies
public sector workers                                              *  States (32 pension schemes):
*  In early 1997, the Government completed an initial survey of the available databases and
the actuarial and financial situation of the 32 public pension schemes at the State level.
*  During the first week of March 1998, SHCP approved a standardized format for the
actuarial and financial valuation (Proyecciones Demograficas y Financieras). These
valuation guidelines were designed through a joint effort of 7 actuarial firms.
o:
4o
00



Page 49                    Appendix B
THE WORLD BANKIIFCIM.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:  December 8, 1998
TO:  Mr. Olivier Lafourcade, Director, LCC1C I
THROUGH:  Mr. Augusto de la Torre, Lead Specialist Finance, LCSFP    4/
FROM:  John Stein, Principal Operations Officer, LCSFP
EXTENSION:  39021
SUBJECT:  MEXICO - Second Contractual Savings Development Program Loan (Ln. 4343-ME)
Declaration of Effectiveness
1. The purpose of this memorandum is to obtain your approval to proceed with
declaring the above-referenced loan effective, disbursing the US$400 million single
tranche. The Legal and Loan Departments concur with this proposal.
2. The original date for effectiveness is December 14, 1998.  The required legal
opinions by Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) and by BANOBRAS
were received and found satisfactory.
3. There were six additional conditions of effectiveness for the loan. The three
conditions related to: (i) the contractual arrangements for transfer of the loan's
proceeds (Acta de Apertura de Credito - Section 5.01(a) of the Loan Agreement); (ii)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guiarantor and its consistency with the
objectives of the program (Section 5.01(b)); and (iii) the exchange of views with the
progress achieved by the Guarantor in the carrying out of the program (Section
5.01(c)), have all been satisfactorily met.
4. The three conditions of effectiveness that relate to reforms to INFONAVIT's
operations and financial situation have also been satisfactorily met as described
below. Key supporting documents are attached and they have been also placed in the
project file.
Background
5. Although by design this single tranche adjustment loan should not have included
additional special conditions of effectiveness, such conditions were necessary to
provide the authorities with sufficient time to implement key reforms to INFONAVIT
as set out in the Convenio among INFONAVIT, SHCP and the Banking and
Securities Commission (CNBV). The three conditions are:
* INFONAVIT has adopted an appropriate new system of external financial
controls starting in 1999 (Section 5.01(d));



Page 50                        Appendix B
John Stein                          -2-                      December 8, 1998
*  The Bank has received a copy of INFONAVIT's revised table of maximum
amounts of credit (reflecting borrowers' ability to pay), as agreed between
INFONAVIT and CNBV and approved by INFONAVIT's Board (Section
5.01(e)); and
*  INFONAVIT has reviewed its credit rules and loan rationing mechanism and
any necessary revisions have been submitted to INFONAVIT's Board for
approval (Section 5.01(f)).
6. The second and third conditions are self-explanatory. Because of concerns by the
authorities regarding the sensitivity of the Bank's involvement, SHCP requested a
vague wording of the first condition. The concrete requirement of this condition, as
defined in the minutes of negotiations, refers to the change in INFONAVIT's
External Auditor and the adoption of a new rotating policy for selecting future
external independent auditors.
Status
7. Before reviewing progress condition by condition it is important to note that shortly
after Board presentation INFONAVIT's top management, including the Director
General, were dismissed and replaced by a new team led by Mr. Luis De Paulo Serna,
who has a reputation as a reformer. While we have had only limited direct contact
with INFONAVIT's senior officials, CNBV informed us during the end-October
mission that in its opinion INFONAVIT now has qualified and experienced financial
professionals in most of the key posts. Nevertheless, the reform process has not been
smooth as it has taken considerably more time and effort to develop and implement
the agreed reforms, particularly at a time when key senior staff were being replaced.
Thus, the time frame for implementing a number of actions of the Convenio has been
somewhat delayed (for a Progress Report on the Implementation of the Convenio see
Annex I). Also, there remains considerable resistance by developers and union
officials represented at the Board to changing INFONAVIT's historical role as an
important source of patronage and PRI party support.
8. Ckange of Auditor and Rotation Policy. According to SHCP this was not an easy
fight but SHCP prevailed and the resignation of INFONAVIT's a4ditor was obtained.
The policy change is reffected in the attached Minutes of the Sureillance Committee
("Comision de Vigilancia ") dated October 21, 1998. With receipt of the approved
minutes of INFONAVIT's Board meeting and the letter of resignation of
INFONAVIT's previous external auditor, this condition has been satisfactorily met.
(See Annex II for documentary evidence).
9. New Maximum Credit Amount Table. Following the analysis of INFONAVIT's
loan portfolio by SHCP officials assisted by technical assistance through the PHRD
grant, INFONAVIT's new management team was informed that many loans are
oversized and are unable to be paid off by borrowers given: (i) the size of the loans
(denominated in minimum wages), (ii) the payment limit of 30% of wages; (iii) the
likely time profile of the borrowers' eamnings (career or wage path), and (iv) the time



Page 51
Appendix B
John Stein                         -3-                      December 8, 1998
limit set by the retirement of workers. This issue was also subject to considerable
debate within INFONAVIT's Board of Directors. The Board's decision was to agree
to reduce the maximum credit amount tables in two stages: (i) first, it would not
adjust the maximum credit amount table upwards with the expected increase of the
minimum wage which is to go into effect on December 3, 1998 (i.e.; aiming at a
reduction in real terms of the loans equal to the increase in the nominal minimum
wage of 14%); (ii) second, SHCP intends to propose an additional 10% decrease
which would go into effect in mid-1999. SHCP officials indicated that the minimum
wage increase approved this week was 14%, leading to an overall decrease of about
24% in the real value of INFONAVIT's loans over a six-month period. The Bank has
received the new credit table (see Annex III). The 24% real decrease in the
maximum size of INFONAVIT's loans is a significant step in the right direction.
Moreover, CNBV has indicated through a letter to SHCP dated November 23, 1998
(Annex 111) its intention to require additional loan-loss provisions, as necessary, for
new loan originations in the event that the loans granted to INFONAVIT borrowers
exceed their repayment capacity. It seems clear that this approach is the maximum
the authorities can deliver. Combined with the actions proposed below, this condition
is satisfactorily met.
10. New Credit Limits. The main changes here include: (i) the Board of Director's
approval of the 43 bis mechanism which allows commercial banks to apply their own
underwriting standards while utilizing INFONAVIT's major operating advantage of
direct payment of interest and amortization of the loan by garnishing the worker's
wage; and (ii) changing INFONAVIT's points system for allocating credit to direct
loans to workers which have higher personal savings (down payments) or higher
incomes, reducing the risk of loan default. The interest rate spread has also been
increased. The authorities believe that these changes combined with improved
collection practices should lead to a strengthened financial position for INFONAVIT.
The 43 bis mechanism, if widely used, should end up lowering INFONAVIT's own
direct lending and increasing its participation in cofinancing new housing loans with
commercial banks and SOFOLES. With these actions, this condition is satisfactorily
met (see Annex III).
Recommendation
I 1. As was noted in the Memorandum of the President for this operation, the reform
program for INFONAVIT represents, in the Team's view, clearly a sub-optimal
approach constrained by the political realities of Mexico and the impossibility of
modifying INFONAVIT's Law and mortgage instrument at this stage. This has not
changed substantially with the actions described here.  Key issues such as
INFONAVIT's mortgage instrument, governance structure, and implicit subsidies,
the latter which end up being borne by pensioners, remain hostage to further
improvement of INFONAVIT's financial performance and its ability to pay a positive
real return to pensioners. It is hoped that the close supervision by CNBV, the active
involvement by SHCP at the highest level and the greater openness for presenting
INFONAVIT's financial results, will move the outcome in a positive direction. In the
meantime, there will continue to be an opportunity cost for workers, particularly to



Page 52                 Appendix B
John Stein                         -4-                      December 8, 1998
those without access to INFONAVIT loans, to the extent that the performance of
INFONAVIT will be well below the return on the workers' savings in the privately
managed pension funds (AFORES). The authorities have indicated a strong
willingness to have the continued support of the Bank through a technical assistance
loan to improve INFONAVIT's operation and finances once our current support
financed through a PHRD grant ends. We hope to continue to work closely with the
authorities to improve INFONAVIT's financial performance or, if that proves
unsuccessful, to press for the necessary policy changes to ensure the success of
Mexico's pension reform scheme.
12. Taking into account the evidence submitted by the Borrower and the overall context
for the reforms as described above, we recommend that the Bank declare CSDP II
effective and release the US$400 million.
Attachments
cc: MessrsJ!Mmes. M. Giugale, R. Clifford, V. Nguyen (LCCIC); D. Leipziger, A. de la
Torre, T. Packard, P.S. Srinivas, (LCSFP), G. Grandolini
(IMDPI); Genta-Fons, Molnar (LEGLA); Fowler, Tan (LOAEL);
LCC1 IRIS.



Page 53
Appendix C
G,At
EA4t>5 ^- L~4 2 .   DIRECCION GENERAL DE CREDITO PUBLICO
9i=-1%  A: *DIRECCION DE ORGANISMOSFIJANCEROS
INTERNACIONALES
SECRETIA                        Subdirecci6n de Proyectos Especiales
hACIENDA Y CREDITOLULCO
IW*^aSRECIBIDO   Oficio No. 305.VI. 283
M6xico,D.F.,;a 3D de noviembre de 1999.
SR. FERNANDO MONTES-NEGRET
Gerente del Sector Financiero
Prnvado e lnfraestructura
Banco Mundial
Insurgentes Sur 1605
Torre Mural, 24' Piso
Col. San Jose Insurgentes
Hago referencia al Programa de Desarrollo de Ahorro Contractual, prestamo No. 4343-
ME, que se contratW con el Banco Mundial y en espelellco al Reporte de Evaluacion de
Ejecuci6n del Proyacto.
Al respecto, adjunto me permito enviar a usted un documento que contiene Ia versi6n
sobre dicho reporte de los organismos nacionales que participaron en la ejecuci6n del
proyecto. Lo anterior, a efecto de que dicho documento sea incorporado en of reporte
oficial que elabora el Banco Mundial.
Sin otro particular por el momento, reitero a usted la seguridad de mi consideraci6n m&s
distinguida.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO. NO REELECCION
El Director de Organiasmos Financieros
Intemacionales
t1f    WaRLD BANK
,U MEXICO PEPARTMENT
P> I .  19
P,77   ,                               RICARDO OCHOA
P E L LP -r i uINJ



Page 54
Appendix C
Assessment of the Government
As the final stage of the CSDP project cycle (Ln. 4343-ME) and in compliance with the
World Bank's established evaluation process, an implementation completion report was
prepared. As part of the report, the Mexican Govermnent provides its assessment of the
project's success as follows:
A. Introduction
As a consequence of the 1994 economic crisis and with the purpose of setting the basis
for sustained economic growth, the Federal Government has developed a set of strategies
aimed at fostering growth and strengthening domestic savings. This objective is to be
achieved through mobilization of stable, long term sources of financing, without
neglecting the improvement of the population's social welfare. Within the framework of
the Government's economic strategies, pension system reform is one of the basic
elements aimed at strengthening domestic private savings and consolidating long term
public savings.
The implementation of the new Social Security System, begun in December 1995, started
with the modification of the Social Security Law. This modification consisted of
converting the pay-as-you-go distributive pensions system for the private sector workers,
to one of defined contributions with individual capitalization. It was complemented in
May 1996, by strengthening of the National Commission for the Retirement Savings
System (CONSAR) in its capacity to regulate and supervise the new pension system that
started operating in July 1997. In addition to this, there were continuous efforts of the
Federal Government to stimulate the modernization of the National Housing Fund for
Workers (INFONAVIT).
B. Objectives of the Project
The World Bank's support to the Government's medium term goals focussed on the
following objectives, originally set forth in the National Development Plan 1995-2000:
* increasing the equity, efficiency, and sustainability of the old age security
system gradually leading to greater effective coverage;
* implementing a financially viable pension system;
* limiting the fiscal impact of the current pension system  and ensure
transparency of the fiscal costs of transition;
* promoting financial market development with the adoption of new financial
instruments; and
* raising aggregate savings.
The implementation of these objectives has been divided in two phases. In the first
phase, the authorities implemented an equitable and financially sustainable pension
system as a precondition to other financial sector reforms. For the establishment and
supervision of the private pension funds (AFORES) it was necessary to adopt the
regulatory framework, design an initially conservative investment regime and strengthen



Page 55
Appendix C
the capacity of the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS) in its contributions
collection process.
In the second phase of the reform process, works relating to the consolidation and
modification of the applicable regulations to the pensions system were carried out, the
transfer of resources from the SAR 92 to individual accounts in AFORES was initiated,
and CONSAR's supervision and vigilance system was strengthened. Some important
advances in reforming INFONAVIT were made, in spite of the adverse circumstances
faced in the process of implementing structural change.
The social security reform in Mexico was part of the overall strategy to strengthen,
deepen and modernize the Mexican financial system. Pension system participants have
played a major role in the implementation of mechanismns of regulation and prudential
supervision. Similarly, financial market development, the channeling of larger resources
dedicated to efficient investment projects and the creation of new instruments to
encourage domestic savings were also addressed.
The purpose of the IMSS pension system is for it to become financially viable by
increasing its efficiency, coverage, and transparency in r esource administration.
C. Compliance with the Objectives
The first phase of the program had highly satisfactory implementation. CONSAR
succeeded in establishing the necessary conditions for a sound pension system, putting in
place a legal framework that made the reforms sustainable and credible in the short,
medium and long terms. To improve the financial perfomnance of INFONAVIT, several
measures were taken, such as the strengthening supervision by National Banking and
Securities Commission (CNBV) and a better disclosure of information to the public.
The results achieved in the second stage of the reform, in which the full implementation
and consolidation of the pension system had been planned, the results have also been
satisfactory. Even though it is necessary to recognize that in the future the system will
face important challenges, it is possible to reaffirm that a solid foundation for a private
pension system has been adequately established in Mexico.
In order to strengthen the legal system in transitioning from a distributive PAYG pension
system to a privately administered system, CONSAR has issued 88 general regulations
(Circulares) of which 82 are in force. The regulations contribute to improving
operational and administrative transparency of the new pension system.
Among the results showing the efficiency of the reformed pension system, CONSAR has
approved mergers of four AFOREs, leaving 13 out of the 17 AFORES that initially
started operations. The affiliation of 14,874,710 workers registered in the 13 AFORES at
the end of August 1999, proves the system's wide coverage. This figure represents
73.8% of the potential estimated market for this year, which includes active and inactive
workers. With the objective of obtaining transparency in the transfer of resources in the
individual account system, a total of 4 "circulares" that regulate the transfer of SAR-92-



Page 56
Appendix C
97 resources to AFORES have been issued, as well as 3 "circulares" related to transfer
among AFORES.
As of August, 1999, resources totaling 26,920.6 million pesos have been transferred from
diverse credit institutions to the workers' individual accounts in the AFORES. 39,062.0
million pesos had been transferred to the housing sub-accounts with INFONAVIT.
Likewise, as of the same date, a transfer among AFORES of 24,050 individual accounts,
for an amount of 209.7 million pesos between retirement sub-accounts and 184.7 million
pesos between the housing sub-accounts have also been carried out.
To make the collecting and individualization process of the workers accounts more
efficient the revision of the Unique Identification System (SUA 2000), was concluded in
1999. This revision, besides being compatible with the Y2K problem, includes
modifications to accelerate the employer's retirement and housing contribution, allowing
for timely payments and includes an affiliation module that increases the efficiency of the
workers affiliation procedure to IMSS.
In order to widely disseminate information about the new private pension system and to
enable the workers to receive reliable information that would allow them to accurately
evaluate the system's costs and benefits, as well as to help them in the selection of the
administrator of their individual account, CONSAR has developed new indicators whose
purpose is to make comparable the different structures of commissions charged by
AFORES, as well as the return obtained by them on the workers' contributions. The
indicators prepared by CONSAR are "Indicator of Gross Return", "Indicator of Net
Return" and "Indicator of Standardized Commissions". Such indicators are published
bimonthly in a bulletin and also in CONSAR's web page. In addition, these indicators
are published in the media through press releases.
The current investment policies represent a low-risk investment regime in order to ensure
consolidation of the system during its initial stages and to provide certainty and
credibility to the workers. Nevertheless, CONSAR is studying the possibility of allowing
a more flexible investment regime and the creation of a second pension fund (SIEFORE)
to enlarge the set of investment possibilities available to the workers that could be
tailored to their different risk profiles. The increase in funds managed by the AFORES
will influence the creation of new private instruments to finance productive activities and
the creation of infrastructure. Given that the pension assets of the workers provide
opportunities to channel greater financial resources to investment projects, these funds
have become important long term financial resources. In a little more than two years,
SIEFORES control approximately 15% of the long term financial resources in the
economy. On the other hand, the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV)
has issued a series of rules to implement prudential regulation mechanisms in several
financial intermediaries, to assure that the financial transactions are carried out within
best practice, clarity and transparency. In this sense, CONSAR has stimulated the
industry to adopt risk standards in their self regulation programs and is the driving force
behind the prudential regulation on best practices regarding the SIEFORES settlement of
transactions.



Page 57                      Appendix C
CNBV has also issued a circular which authorizes the creation of "Price Vendors"-
independent firms that provide security prices-that could be used to value the
SIEFORES' portfolios assets in the future.
So too, CONSAR intends to establish methodologies that will help to efficiently manage
risks. The Risk Analysis Committee of CONSAR has established minimum risk criteria
that must be considered by the funds, and this has limited the funds' exposure to the
credit risks.
Regarding INFONAVIT's reform, important advances has been made, in spite of the
extraordinarily adverse circumstances faced in introducing structural change of the
institution. Some of the measures that were contemplated in mid-1998 and formalized
during the last quarter of the year met unexpected obstacles, due to which extra time was
needed for their implementation. However, the Federal Government's continuous efforts
to push INFONAVIT's modernization, have allowed it to make progress in some issues
beyond what was considered possible in 1998. For example, the mortgage payments
were turned into one of essentially fixed payments; the interest rate was increased; the
credit amounts were reduced, which, in spite of the reduction implemented in 1998, were
still above the payment capacity of low income workers; a creditors' selection
mechanism was approved that favors workers with accumulated savings and induces
greater competition among mortgage suppliers.
D. Sustainability of the Project
CONSAR has the final authority in designing and establishing the applicable regulation
to the pension system to obtain operative efficiency. The AFORES have their own
commission structure, they are not obliged to grant a minimum return and the workers
have the right to change from one AFORE to another. For these purposes it is necessary
to establish mechanisms to encourage the market to offer clear signals for the operations
to be carried out with greater transparency and efficiency.
The high level of affiliation and the expected growth of demand for services creates the
possibility that a reduction of administrative costs may occur in the future, due to
economies of scale, which would result in decreasing levels of commissions charged to
the workers.
The workers' resources have not been adversely affected, as a result of the applicable
investment regime to the SIEFORES, during the recent financial market volatility.
The AFORES' industry has started its consolidation stage. It is time therefore to initiate
the necessary studies to get the approval for a new SIEFORE, strengthening the basis of
private administration of the pension funds and giving diverse investment options to
workers.
In spite of the legal limits to its extent of participation, the Federal Government will
continue to encourage measures to improve the quality of INFONAVIT's credit portfolio,
in order to enhance its viability in the long term and its improved performance in the
context of the new pension system.



Page 58
Appendix C
E. Challenges
Among the future tasks, concerning the pension system, the major issues are:
* The need to promote greater investment portfolio diversification.
* Design and implementation of measures to reduce administrative costs
of individual accounts, as well as costs of disability and life insurance.
* Ensuring financial viability of the Government employees' pension
system, parastatals and other public entities; and
* Increasing pension systems coverage
F. Lessons
CONSAR, working jointly with diverse public institutions, successfully implemented the
new pensions system, creating an important basis for the Mexican financial sector reform
and creating an efficient mechanism for generating domestic savings.






vo                      ~~~~~~IBRD 23547
g; OJa  (;-SZtL¢s0                                                       \                                                                                                          M    E X  ICO
C.Ai fO3NiA .                                o                                                                                                                                                                          V-  rA  \
3D-         t,,\\v                                         l    T       '\     fA":_,-s                                                                                                                                                                                         30.,
.   ,       .  i                 : C  H \ I  H  U      ~~~~~H UII   A                                                                                                            't
,   w   5, 4,_;  C 8 +,  ~~~A                   .___                         .                 [    .                                                      : 
^7--n   CA   / -\ 0t e  eu3 g  /                                                     ,3                                                                                 g Nghonol rapld  f
!  BA)M   §   5onlowsolo  L>dadObogd; Ot +2<t9 ' O  H U I L l\NuevrLLe<sy ,L/. _ DivPied-h NOR,.
\ >C4//lq#NlA    \   g   ;   ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~    $                                                r ljo b,, ,da-e~~~~~~~~~~~~we50it1
RA)A:t     G 0 A H                                                                                                                                  _HCia c4i    to-,> ,
convomen_ofmad_ond/s ec/Vsisviy for fhe in/ernolvseof                                         IVe WorW   '               .                                                                    air.  .s
svch ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt b-dorims,                                                       X\ 
; 1809 : : , looB x, 9,0~~' ri-  FERAYL9 



