Page  1
September
25,
1998
Mr. Ricardo Ochoa 
Director
Direcci
ón General de Crédito Público 
Dirección de Organismos Financieros Internacionales
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Third Contractual Savings
Development Program
Grant No
.
TF
025319
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding nine hundred seventy five thousand Dollars 
($975,000) (the Grant) to United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance dated 
July
10,
1998, and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the 
activities described in paragraph
1
of
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is 
authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by 
the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will 
become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Country Director
Mexico
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By
/s/ Carlos Garc
ía Moreno
Authorized Representative
Date: September 30, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the proposed Third 
Contractual Savings Development Program
(the Project).
 The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
a.
Review of the investment regime and the cost of non-performance of assets 
managed by INFONAVIT, through: (i) the carrying out of technical studies; (ii) the organization 
of in-country dissemination workshops; and  (iii) the provision of study-tours for INFONAVIT 
staff and representatives of civil society to attend relevant seminars and workshops abroad.
b.
Developing a program to restructure INFONAVIT through: (i) the carrying out 
of technical studies; (ii) the carrying out of surveys; (iii) the provision of study-tours for 
INFONAVIT staff and other government staff to familiarize themselves with relevant foreign 
institutions and best international practices in the area of housing finance; and (iv) the carrying 
out of a workshop on governance and housing finance.
c.
Institutional strengthening of CONSAR (the Pension Fund Superintendency)
regulatory functions through: (i) the carrying out of technical studies; (ii) the publication of 
technical papers; (iii) the organization of in-country dissemination workshops; (iv) the provision 
of study-tours for CONSAR, and other government staff to attend relevant seminars and 
workshops abroad; and (v) the carrying out of a seminar on asset management and insurance 
practices.
d.
Review of existing social security schemes through: (i) the carrying out of 
technical studies; (ii) the preparation of an inventory and analysis of existing pension plans; and 
(iii) the identification of policy and institutional reforms.
e.
Preparation of a program to correct operational vulnerabilities in the reformed 
pension system through: (i) the carrying out of technical studies and research; and (ii) the 
provision of study-tours for government staff to examine relevant pension reform programs.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall 
cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities 
promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall 
Page  3
indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims 
against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 2000.  After that 
date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in 
the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank
’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, United Mexican States on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. 
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, 
after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds 
for the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient 
has failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient or United Mexican States, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with 
the guarantee of  United Mexican States, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the 
Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall 
have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance 
in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant 
that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
