Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6696-GH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6,1995
Trade, Finance and Investment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 10/20/95)
Currency Unit       =   Cedi
US$1.00             =   C 1295
Cedis I million     =   US$772.20
SDR 1.0             =    US$1.494
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGC              -   Ashanti Goldfields Corporation
ATM              -   Automated Teller Machines
BOG              -   Bank of Ghana
CAS              -   Country Assistance Strategy
CEPS             -   Customs. Excise and Prevention Services
DIC              -   Divestiture Implementation Committee
DVP              -   Delivery vs Payments
ERP              -   Economic Recovery Program
FINSAC           -   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GCB              -   Ghana Commercial Bank
GDI              -   Gross Domestic Investment
GDP              -   Gross Domestic Product
GDS              -   Gross Domestic Savings
G P&T            -   Ghana Post and Telegraph
GOG              -   Government of Ghana
GRO              -   Ghana Reinsurance Organization
GSE              -   Ghana Stock Exchange
HFC              -   Home Finance Company
ICAG             -   Institute of Chartered Accountants Ghana
IRS              -   Internal Revenue Service
LTD              -   Long Term Debt
MDPI             -   Management Development and Productivity Institute
MIS              -   Management Information System
MOF              -   Ministry of Finance
NBFI             -   Non Bank Financial Institutions
NIC              -   National Insurance Commission
PCT              -   Project Coordination and Implementation Team
PEED             -   Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
PSD              -   Private Sector Development Credit
PT               -   Privatization Trust
RIR              -   Reference Interest Rate
RTGS             -   Real Time Gross Settlement
SA               -   Special Account
S&L              -   Savings and Loans
SIC              -   State Insurance Corporation
SME              -   Small and Medium Enterprises Prolect
SOE              -   State Owned Enterprises
SRC              -   Securities Regulatory Commission
SSB              -   Social Security Bank
SSNIT            -   Social Security and National Insurance Trust
SWIFT            -   Society for Worldwide Inter-Bank Financial Telecommunication
TOR              -   Terms of Reference
VSAT             -   Very Small Aperture Terminal



GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No.
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...............................                                                                                           I
1. Country Background ......................................I
A. The Economy .......................................
B. Current Macroeconomic Environment ......................................2
C. Financial Sector ......................................3
D. Financial Sector Reform ......................................5
E. Rural and Informal Finance ......................................6
F. Divestiture ......................................6
G. Private Sector Development ......................................6
II. The Remaining Agenda ......................................7
A. Current Problems ......................................7
B. The Non-Bank Financial Sector ......................................8
C. The Institutional Framework ......................................9
Ill. Project Design .....................................                                                                                           11
A. Project Objectives and Approach .....................................1  I
B. Relation with Other Multilateral Assistance .....................................                                                            14
C. Project Risks .....................................                                                                                          14
D. Project Benefits .....................................                                                                                       14
IV. Project Description ......................................                                                                                      16
A. Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) ...................................... 16
B. Securities Regulatory Commission (SRC) ...................................... 18
C. Bank of Ghana .....................................                                                                                          19
D. National Insurance Commission (NIC) .....................................                                                                   20
E. State Insurance Corporation ...................................... 22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Ghana in June 1995. It
comprised Messrs. Anil Chandramani (Financial Economist and Task Manager), Claude Sorel
(Private Sector Development Specialist), Sunil Datt (Financial Specialist), and Hemant Baijal
(Consultant, Economist). Messrs. Dan Mozes (Sr. Financial Specialist) and David Pugh (Sr. Insurance
Specialist, IFC) contributed on previous missions and comments were also provided by Messrs. Kaps
and Sokol (AF4DR). Mr. Peter Watson and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are the Division Chief and
Department Director, respectively, for this operation. Mr. Said Al Habsy is the Lawyer and
Mr. Dimitri Vittas and Mr. David Pugh are the Peer Reviewers for this operation. Ms. Celine Gavach
provided secretarial support.



F.  Ghana Reinsurance Organization  (GRO) ....................................................................... 24
G.  Social Security  And National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) . ............................................................... 25
H.  Associated  Infrastructure  and Capacity  Building                                        .............................................. 27
1.  Insurance  Industry  Training  Center ....................................................................... 27
J.  Home Finance Company ....................................................................... 28
K.  University  of Ghana School of Administration .............................. ........................................                                  29
L.  Institute of Chartered  Accountants of Ghana (ICAG) . .................................................................. 29
M.  Management Development and  Productivity  Institute  . ................................................................ 29
N.  Payment Systems ....................................................................... 29
0.  Ministry  of Finance (MOF) ......................................................................                                                     32
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .......... 34
A.  Project Implementation                                                           ...................................................................... 34
B.  Onlending  Tern s of financing  for the beneficiaries ...................................................................... 36
C.  Project Costs and  Financing  Plan ....................................................................... 37
D.  Procurement ....................................................................... 37
E.  Disbursements ....................................................................... 39
F.  Accounts and  Audits ......................................................................                                                          40
G.  Terms and  Conditions ....................................................................... 41
Attachment 1:  Ghana Payment System   - Features and  Issues ............................................................. 42
Attachment 2:  Privatization  Trust ......................................................................                                               48
SECTION C: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN .                                                                                   ....................................... 54
Section  C.I:  Project Implementation  Matrices ......................................................................                                        55
Section C.2: Cost Tables (by beneficiary) ......................................................................                                              68
Section C.3: Standard processing time for procurement of goods and consultants ......................... 74
Tabe
Table 1. Monetary Indicators                                                                                .4
Table 2.  NBFI Project Design Matrix                                                                             .12
Table 3.   Linkages of NBFI Project with other Bank Projects                                                                       .13
Table 4.  Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .39
Table 5. Disbursement .40



SECTION A: PROJECT DESCFIPTION
I. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
A.   The Economy.
I .    Ghana, a country of about 16 million people, is well endowed with natural resources.
The economy has traditionally depended on primary production and exports of cocoa and
minerals. Agricultural production, primarily rain fed and small scale, is concentrated on staple
food crops and cocoa. Ghana ranks among the world's largest producers and exporters of
cocoa. About 60 percent of the Ghanaian labor force is employed in agriculture which
accounts for about 45 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). The service sector, consisting
largely of trade and public sector services, is the second largest employer, accounting for over
25 percent of the labor force and about 40 percent of real GDP. The industrial sector accounts
for about 16 percent of GDP and employment; it is relatively diverse and well developed by
Sub-Saharan African standards.
2.    Compared to other West African countries, Ghana once enjoyed a relatively high
standard of living, but poor economic management during the 1970s and the early 1980s led to
a prolonged economic downturn. Expansionary fiscal and monetary policies, high inflation,
and an overvalued nominal exchange rate, caused a substantial real appreciation of the
currency, leading to external payments imbalance. To mitigate the situation, policymakers
imposed a wide range of administrative controls on prices, imports, foreign exchange use and
the distribution of goods and services. This policy mix contributed to a downward economic
spiral from 1970 to 1982.
3.    After a devastating economic performance throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, the
Government introduced an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983 in order to: (a) restore
and sustain macroeconomic stability; (b) improve the efficiency of public sector resource
management; and (c) create an incentive framework to enhance efficiency, encourage savings
and investment, and provide an enabling environment for private sector development.
4.    The Government has been implementing a program of wide-ranging financial reforms.
It has abolished interest rate controls and sectoral credit ceilings, improved the legal framework
governing banking activities, and introduced uniform accounting and auditing standards for all
banks. The central bank is strengthening the supervision of banks. A program to restructure
the finances and management of distressed banks has been completed. The country has
established a small stock exchange, which is expected to be a vehicle for floating shares of
public enterprises to be divested.
5.    Ghana has a market-determined exchange rate system and a relatively low-tariff trade
regime, free of quantitative restrictions. In April 1990, the Government introduced an
interbank market supported by a weekly wholesale auction of foreign exchange, with a view to
encouraging such transactions among banks. More than half the foreign exchange in the



2
interbank market is supplied by the Central Bank. Foreign exchange transactions at exchange
bureaus were also legalized in 1990. The spread between the interbank exchange market and
the bureaus has continued to fall, and is currently less than 10 percent. The Government
abolished the import licensing system in 1989. Tariffs on imports have been reduced
substantially, and excise taxes on imports have been set at par with locally produced goods.
Export taxes, except that on cocoa, have been abolished. Tariff and pricing policy in the power
and energy sectors has also been improved.
6.    The Government has succeeded in mobilizing greater public revenues through tax
reform, improved tax collections, and rationalization of consumption taxes and user charges.
Public investment has grown from negligible levels at the beginning of the ERP to about 9
percent of GDP in 1993, and the focus has changed from direct investment in productive
activities to rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure, especially roads and human
resources development. To better rationalize the public investment program, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) has established a committee, with representatives from sector ministries, which
coordinates investments and policies across sectors.
B. Current Macroeconomic Environment.
7.    Since the election-related fiscal shock of 1992, Ghana's macroeconomic situation has
remained fragile. After a number of years of strong macroeconomic performance, there was a
marked reversal in fiscal performance during the run-up to the 1992 elections when large wage
awards were granted to civil service and other public sector employees. In addition, delays in
passing increases in imported oil costs to consumers gave rise to large revenue losses. As a
result, the overall budget balance reverted from a surplus position of 1.5 percent of GDP in
1991 to a deficit of 4.8 percent in 1992 and the growth in money supply increased rapidly.
8.    There has been a remarkable turnaround in the fiscal balance from a deficit of 4.8
percent of GDP in 1992 to one of 0.8 percent in 1994. If divestiture receipts are included, the
fiscal balance was in surplus of 2.2 percent in 1994. However, in 1994 the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) was again unable to curtail monetary growth because of unplanned borrowing by the
parastatal Ghana National Petroleum Company to cover losses on oil trading and other
activities. Despite stepped-up open market operations, money supply grew by 46 percent in
1994, most of it in the last quarter. With GDP growth lower than expected due to untimely
rains, inflationary pressures intensified and the average inflation rate for the first seven months
of 1995 reached 40 percent.
9.    Ghana's external position, after deteriorating in 1992-93, improved substantially in
1994. The external current account deficit rose from 3.6 percent of GDP in 1991 to 9.2 percent
of GDP in 1993. From around mid-1993 onward, BOG limited its intervention in the foreign
exchange market, thereby allowing a sharp depreciation of the exchange rate. This policy, in
conjunction with the strengthening of the fiscal situation and strong export performance,
contributed to a reduction in the current account deficit in 1994 to 4.9 percent of GDP. Ghana
experienced a shortfall of US$200 million (or nearly 4 percent of GDP) in long-term
concessional aid in 1994, but the impact on the overall balance of payments was mitigated by



3
receipts from the divestiture program and short-term external borrowing by the Cocoa Board.
Consequently, Ghana's foreign exchange reserves position improved to over four months of
imports by the end of 1994, compared with only three months at the end of 1993.
10.   The 1995 macroeconomic program, aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability, is
supported by a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility approved by the IMF Board
on June 30, 1995. Implementation of the macroeconomic program is on track. Available data
show that Ghana overperformed in the first quarter of 1995. Net domestic financing of the
Government budget was below the IMF's program estimate by 1 percent of GDP. Net foreign
assets of the Central Bank were better than programmed, and broad money growth was lower
than targeted. Nevertheless, price increases intensified in 1995, largely reflecting the strong
monetary expansion in the last quarter of 1994 and the one-off revenue measures involving
increases in petrol and indirect taxes. Thus, for the 12-month period ending May 1995, the
consumer price index rose by 50 percent, compared to 34 percent at the end of 1994. However,
inflation is expected to abate if the program remains on track for the remainder of 1995.
11.   At the core of the 1995 macroeconomic program--as agreed under the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) 1995-97--are measures designed to secure a fiscal surplus of 1.2
percent of GDP and a money supply growth of 14 percent. Real GDP is projected to grow at 5
percent. Sales tax (including on services), removal of exempted zero-rated tax status for
imports, increases in petroleum tax, and re-imposition of withholding tax on interest earnings
are among the revenue measures. Wage increases have been restrained to 35 percent in 1995.
Notwithstanding an outbreak of civil disturbances in mid-May 1995, which led to the
withdrawal of the value added tax, the original PFP fiscal targets are expected to be met.
C. Financial Sector.
12.   Comparative financial indicators confirm that Ghana's financial system is not very
deep. Broad money holdings (M2) are equivalent to about 17 percent of GDP, as compared
with 79 percent in Malaysia, 46 percent in Indonesia, 37 percent in Kenya, and 30 percent in
Zimbabwe. Reflecting their mistrust of banks, Ghanaians keep nearly half of their total money
in currency rather than in bank deposits, as compared to about 10 percent in Indonesia,
Thailand, and Malaysia, and 20 percent in Kenya, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Currency holdings
outside of banks are also large relative to total monetary aggregates. The table below shows
that the currency intensity of the economy (C/M2) recorded a steady rise, instead of decline,
from 28 percent to 38 percent over the past 5 years. In Ghana, not only is the ratio high but the
rate of growth of currency in circulation is explosive--four times in the past four years.



4
Table 1: Monetary Indicators      (in Cedi Bn.)
1990         1991         1992         1993         1994
Currency      80.04        90.03        183.48       222.20       368.80
M2        283.24       325.78       519.34       661.57        967.36
GDP      2031.70       2574.80      3008.80      3949.00       5186.00
C/M2      28 percent   28 percent   35 percent   34 percent   38 percent
M2/GDP    14 percent   13 percent   17 percent   17 percent   19 percent
Average    32 percent   28 percent   13 percent   18 percent   24 percent
Inflation
Source: Bank of Ghana
13.   A number of factors have contributed to the low level of participation in the formal
financial system. Confidence was undermined when the confidentiality of bank accounts was
violated in the early 1980s and later bank-portfolios underwent large scale restructuring. In
addition, during the 1970s and 1980s, inflation drove individuals to shift their financial assets
into real form to avoid losing the value of their resources. Until recently, low or negative real
deposit rates and high transaction costs offered few incentives for holding wealth in banks or
otherwise dealing with the formal financial system.
14.   Low confidence in the financial system has contributed to Ghana's low recorded
savings and investment rates. In fact, gross national savings never rose above 15 percent of
GDP. After falling to under 5 percent in 1983, the savings rate recovered but remained below
10 percent. This level compares quite unfavorably with East Asian countries where savings
rates of 30 percent are common. Similarly, recorded investment rates are far below levels
required to push Ghana into an accelerated growth mode. However, evidence from household
surveys suggests that actual savings are much higher than records show, but that most are kept
in such nonfinancial forms as inventories or building materials, which are generally not
captured in Ghana's national accounts statistics. It is clear that individuals are reluctant to save
with formal financial institutions, which hinders effective financial intermediation and
depresses the rate of return on capital.
15.   Meanwhile, almost all the savings entering the formal financial system have served to
satisfy the public sector borrowing requirement, with less than a third of outstanding credit
going to the private sector. The incentives created by macroeconomic policy have thus
maximized the banks' role as financiers of the government and minimized their role as
financiers of the private sector. In view of the credit demand generated by an accelerated pace
of divestiture of public enterprises and stronger private sector growth, it is imperative for the
government to shift to a fiscal surplus over the next several years. As this happens, the stock of



5
government debt will fall and the financial system will play a much larger role in investment
finance, thereby further strengthening confidence in the financial system.
D. Financial Sector Reform.
16.   Under the ERP, the government began implementing a program of wide-ranging
financial reforms. It abolished interest rate controls and sectoral credit ceilings. By
introducing a weekly auction of treasury bills, it began to lay the foundation for a system of
indirect monetary control. Under the first Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC I),
prudential regulations were strengthened and actions taken to improve bank supervision.
Seven banks were restructured, with some non-performing assets transferred to a newly created
government agency, the Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust. Banks were allowed to set
lending and deposit rates freely, and the new banking law guaranteed client confidentiality.
17.  In 1989, seeking to improve the country's regulatory and supervisory framework, Ghana
enacted a new banking law. Specifically, this law defined capital adequacy and minimum
capital requirements, prudential lending guidelines, and financial reporting procedures;
imposed sufficient and explicit safeguards against, and penalties for, excessive risk taking; and,
standardized and broadened requirements, which are now far more rigorous. Together, these
provisions have improved the ability of regulatory authorities to monitor the financial condition
of banks.
18.  In addition to the enactment of the new banking law, banking sector reform introduced
the following new features: the upgrading of BOG's examination and supervision functions
and introduction of a new, comprehensive system of returns; improvements in bank
examination skills through twinning arrangements and specialized training; introduction of
annual examinations; standardization of accounting practices guided a Manual ofAccounting
for banks, prepared by BOG; and removal of no explicit entry and exit restrictions in the
banking sector. Under the Private Enterprise and Export Development (PEED) Project
Ghana's international payments system, its links to the global Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT) system, but left the domestic payments system to be
addressed in the future.
19.   Under the ongoing FINSAC 11, the focus has been on reducing policy distortions in the
financial system by encouraging positive real interest rates. Competition in the banking system
is to be increased through the divestiture of public sector shareholdings in banks. To improve
the legal and regulatory framework applicable to non-bank financial institutions (NBFI), a new
Non-Bank Financial Institutions Act has been introduced, although this subsector has so far
played a relatively small role in the financial system as a whole.
20.   Despite these financial reforms, further actions are needed to strengthen confidence in
the sector--and therefore increase the level of savings and intermediation by formal financial
institutions. Regulation and supervision must be strengthened to build public confidence in the
financial system and to become an effective intermediary and promote investments in the
private sector rather than the purchase of government paper.



6
E. Rural and Informal Finance.
21.   Rural financial markets in Ghana consist of formal institutions, such as branches of
commercial banks and rural banks, and informal institutions, such as susu collectors (informal
deposit takers). Both play an important role in intermediating between savers and investors.
Thus far, Ghana's rural financial institutions have not been able to provide people in the
countryside with adequate access to savings or credit, particularly in the agricultural sector.
The Rural Finance Project, which has closed recently, addressed some of the issues related to
rural finance institutions. The project contributed to financial restructuring of rural financial
institutions, including privately owned rural banks and credit unions, by enabling them to
mobilize more deposits and increase the flow of credit to the dominant sector of the economy.
The ongoing Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) Project is addressing some issues related to
the financing needs of small and medium enterprises.
F. Divestiture.
22.   Recently there has been positive change in the Government's attitude towards the
private sector. The policy environment for the private sector has improved. The public-private
sector dialogue initiated in 1991 has been broadened and strengthened through the Private
Sector Roundtable and the Private Enterprise Foundation. Changes in policies include the
Statutory Corporations Act under which public corporations are converted into companies with
salable shares and a new, more liberal Investment Act that was approved in November 1994.
23.   After many years of hesitation, Ghana's privatization program has begun to pick up
steam. The sale of Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC) marked an important threshold in
generating broad-based support for privatization and in signaling the Government's support for
the private sector. The subsequent sale of the Government's minority holdings --to
international fund managers--in seven companies listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange has
reinforced that support. The Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) has recently sold
ten more State-Owned Enterprises (SOE) to the private sector. New and more transparent
procedures for divestiture, including the subcontracting of the implementation of divestiture to
private firms, have been approved by the Cabinet. The divestiture of three commercial banks
now being implemented by international financial advisors will strengthen the process. The
recent decision to seek private participation in the telecommunication sector is expected to
mark another important threshold. The Government has also announced its decision to open
the power sector to private participation. It is important now to sustain these positive signals
and ensure that the lingering doubts of the past on private sector development do not reappear.
G. Private Sector Development.
24.   As a part of the ongoing commitment to strengthening and deepening the nascent
private sector, two projects are being implemented. The first, PEED, in cooperation with
United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) Trade and Investment
Program, is supporting the general area of export finance and its attendant needs. The second
project, the Private Sector Development (PSD) Credit, is aimed at strengthening the technical



7
capacity of both public sector research and development as well as the private sector itself. In
addition, technical assistance is being provided to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
commercial judicial system.
II. THE REMAINING AGENDA
A. Current Problems.
25.   Ghana has achieved significant economic progress in the last ten years as a result of the
broad-based adjustment strategy adopted under the ERP. However, there is concern that the
economy has not yet been able to generate higher growth. This is, in part, due to the fact that
Ghana has not yet achieved much success in the mobilization and allocation of domestic and
foreign capital, which are key factors in stimulating private sector-led growth.
26.   Firstly, on the domestic front, both gross domestic savings (GDS) and gross domestic
investment (GDI) as proportions of GDP have fallen below 10 percent since 1980, much lower
than in the developing countries in Asia. However, household survey data show that
significant amounts of household savings (about 10 percent to 15 percent of GDP) are held in
the form of non-financial assets, which results in an inefficient use of scarce savings. Also, the
formal financial sector has been unable to mobilize adequate amounts of equity and medium -
to -long term financing. The recently completed Ghana Financial Sector Report (Report
Number GH-1 3423, dated December 29, 1994) concludes that one factor that has contributed
significantly to the low formal savings and investment rates ispoorfinancial intermediation in
the economy. Ghana also lacks an efficient domestic payments system necessary to provide
fast and convenient transactions to the entire financial system. Despite improvements in the
banking industry, the creation of effective institutions to intermediate financial flows between
domestic savers and investors has been hampered by the weakness of NBFI. These NBFI often
play very important roles in increasing the mobilization of savings, particularly the term
savings necessary to promote equity and term financing. Since Ghana has been achieving
significant progress under the broad macroeconomic and banking sector reform programs, it is
now necessary for it to turn its attention to the development of a competitive, efficient and well
supervised non-bank financial sector to improve the mobilization of domestic capital, which in
turn would encourage increased savings mobilization from the formal and informal sectors.
27.   Secondly, in an era where it is increasingly desirable for declining official flows to be
replaced by private flows, the economy has begun to attract interest from both direct and
portfolio foreign investors and from the large number of Ghanaian residents abroad. This is
evident from the success of the local and foreign portions of Ashanti Goldfields Corporation
(AGC) share issues and the sale of GOG minority holdings to foreign portfolio investors. Yet,
Ghana lacks the well developed institutional infrastructure necessary to take advantage of these
developments to build true "emerging market" status for its economy. Ghana must now seek to
develop the institutions, instruments and incentives necessary to attract sustainableforeign
private investmentflows into its economy.



8
28.   The Ghana Financial Sector Report concluded that effective financial
intermediation will require: (a) the promotion of greater competition and more
innovation in the sector (involving divestiture and well supervised entry and exit); (b) the
strengthening of the financial and legal infrastructure (including human resource
development, better payments system, especially cash management, and improved
information on enforcement of contracts); and (c) the integration of the formal and
informal financial sectors. While previous IDA operations have gone a long way in
addressing problems in the banking sector, improving their financial infrastructure, and
promoting competition in the banking industry, issues related to the non-bank financial
sector have not been explicitly addressed until now.
29.   In the Ghanaian payment system, check clearance and settlement is still slow and
manual. Checks are not standardized. Risks are insufficiently covered because there are gaps
in the legal infrastructure governing payments, clearing and settlement. There are
inefficiencies in the flow of Government funds due to inadequate information flows. The
technological infrastructure needed for modem money and securities markets needs to be put in
place, and skills enhanced for that purpose. Modernization of the domestic payments system
would lead to improvements in the efficiency of financial transactions, monetary management
and the receipt and disbursal of public finances. The first step would be a review of possible
alternative designs for the payments system incorporating the needs of all major users, such as
the financial institutions (commercial banks, securities institutions, etc.), BOG, and
Government Agencies such as the Customs, Excise and Prevention Service (CEPS) and the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
B. The Non-Bank Financial Sector.
30.   Currently, the non-bank financial sector in Ghana is small, contributing only about 24
percent of the total financial assets in the country, with 11 percent in the government-owned
Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) and 4 percent on the stock exchange. As
a comparison, in South Korea, NBFI accounted for 61 percent of total financial assets in 1992,
up from 49 percent in 1987. Though the non-bank financial sector is diverse, apart from
SSNIT, the other NBFI are small and do not appear to be developing as expected. The Ghana
Stock Exchange (GSE) has only 18 companies listed, but is expected to benefit from the
excellent response to the recent privatization of AGC and seven other companies in which
GOG has minority interests. There are sixteen insurance companies but the industry is
dominated by two state-owned firms. Other NBFI include five recently established merchant
banks, the Home Finance Company (HFC), building societies, one unit trust, one venture
capital company, two discount houses, and three leasing companies. Except for SSNIT and
HFC (which follow commercial management practices) and two major insurance sector
institutions, other NBFI are privately owned. With appropriate technical support, these NBFI
could be strengthened to make financial intermediation more effective so that this sector can
realize its potential for mobilizing and investing the capital required to generate higher growth
in the economy.



9
31.   The non-bank financial sector faces many of the same obstacles as the formal banking
sector. State dominance and a poor regulatory environment have limited the role of private
NBFI, which in turn has inhibited the development of new financial instruments that could
allow portfolio managers to hedge risks in an unstable macroeconomic environment.
Macroeconomic instability and lack of confidence in the formal financial system have also
limited their ability to mobilize savings. As a result, NBFI have been largely unable to provide
equity and long-term finance to the private sector.
32.   In many countries, savers use contractual savings institutions (life insurance companies,
occupational pension schemes, national provident funds, and funded social security systems)
and collective savings institutions (mutual funds and unit trusts) to diversify risks. Because of
their size, the portfolios of these institutions are typically managed by specialists. Small savers
thus benefit from the expertise provided by fund managers and often achieve returns on their
savings in excess of commercial bank deposit rates. Because of their long term and generally
predictable liability structure, contractual savings institutions can also be a good source of
long-term financing for private investment. Most countries which have diversified financial
sectors, private sector corporations raise funds through the issuance of corporate bonds and
shares which are supported by contractual savings institutions. In Ghana, however, contractual
savings institutions have not yet sufficiently developed to perform these functions effectively.
33.   GOG is concerned about the inadequacy of financial services available to consumers,
both individual and small and micro enterprises, both in urban and rural areas. It would,
therefore, like to review alternatives for expanding financial intermediation in informal, rural
and small sectors, including informal and formal institutions, banks and non-bank institutions.
C. The Institutional Framework.
34.   With the exception of pension funds, capital market institutions, HFC and insurance
companies, the operations of NBFI are governed by Ghana's NBFI Law, 1993. Enacted as part
of the financial sector reform, this law provides an adequate framework for diversifying the
financial system and creating competition for banks. It confers on BOG the power to license
and regulate the nine specific categories of NBFI such as, leasing companies, mortgage
financing companies, savings and loans, finance houses, credit unions, discount houses,
acceptance houses, venture capital funding companies and building societies.
35.   Under the NBFI Law, BOG also has executive powers to issue subsidiary legislation
and rules to regulate the operations of NBFI in general, or of a particular category of NBFI as
listed in the Law. BOG has therefore drafted a set of regulations to flesh out some of the
general provisions of the 1993 Law. Key features of the proposed regulations include:
(a)   A standardized set of explicit and transparent terms and conditions of licensing
covering all requirements mentioned generally under the NBFI Law. The
licensing terms allow BOG the right to conduct on-site inspections, which was
not stated explicitly in the NBFI Law.



10
(b)   While the 1993 Law sets the minimum capital at ¢ 100 million, BOG's
operating guidelines reduced the minimum capital requirements to C 20-50
million for savings and loan companies, and C 5-10 million for credit unions,
depending on the size of total deposits. This reduction in minimum capital
requirements was welcomed because it eases entry into the NBFI sector at the
early stage of its development and encourages competition.
(c)    To establish the distinction between banks and non-banks, BOG proposes that,
in accordance with the Law, only banks will accept demand deposits and offer
checking facilities, and that NBFI impose a minimum period of deposit of three
months unless prior exemption is obtained from BOG.
(d)   NBFI must put transfers from net profits into a reserve fund and maintain
mandatory levels of funding identical to that required of banks. This prudential
requirement contributes to the financial safety and soundness of NBFI.
(e)    NBFI must follow the same procedures for loan-loss provisioning and the
recognition of interest as income on non-performing loans as banks. This
assures soundness without giving either banks or NBFI unfair advantages.
(f)    BOG suggests a basis for computing risk assets identical to that prescribed
under the Banking Act, and requires a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10
percent. The capital adequacy ratio of 10 percent, however, is higher than the 6
percent capital adequacy ratio required of banks.
36.   The proposed regulations leave the legal status of non-bank financial enterprises that
fall below the minimum capital requirements unclear. It is, however, not in the interest of the
authorities to regulate and supervise small scale financial activities below a certain threshold.
At the same time, the authorities recognize that these activities are an integral part of the
informal financial system, as will be discussed in subsequent chapters. It is the government's
position to encourage informal operators to join the formal system by supporting their efforts to
build up their businesses in order to qualify for registration under the Law.
37.   Other legislation covers specific types of transactions undertaken by NBFI. For
example, the 1993 Finance Lease Law lays down a procedure for executing financial leases and
establishes explicit rights and obligations of the lessor and lessee. By providing adequate
protection to the lessor, the law promotes leasing activity in Ghana. A key feature of this law
is the mandatory registration of lease agreements with an authority designated by BOG. At
present, all finance leases have to be registered in the Deeds Registry under the control of the
Registrar General, so that the lessor's prior claim on the leased asset is properly recorded and
publicized. The Securities Industry Law, 1993, has been recently revised, but the Insurance
Law, 1989, and the Reinsurance Law, 1990, will be reviewed under this Project. Thus, the
next steps is to build on the initiatives outlined above in order to strengthen and revitalize the
institutions and the infrastructures in the non-bank financial sector.



11
III. PROJECT DESIGN
A. Project Objectives and Approach.
38.   The proposed credit has two objectives. The first objective is to promote the growth of
an efficient, competitive, well regulated, non-bank financial sector and an efficient payments
system in order to: (a) increase the mobilization of domestic savings in both formal and
informal sectors; (b) facilitate the flow of international capital into Ghana through better
financial intermediation; and (c) supply financial services competitively to the economy. The
second objective is to create an environment conducive to greater private sector activity and
support the successful implementation of the divestiture program for SOE and the three largest
state-owned commercial banks.
39.   The project seeks to strengthen institutions and introduce instruments which would
create conditions to encourage substantial amounts of savings held in informal, non-financial
assets to move to the formal financial sector where they can be used more productively.
Different institutions in the non-bank financial sector are at different stages of development and
specific interventions have been designed in each sub-sector to support the institutions,
instruments and incentives required to: (a) create sound legislative and regulatory frameworks
for each sub-sector; (b) develop appropriate organization structures; (c) achieve improvements
in operational efficiency; (d) increase competition and support divestiture where necessary; (e)
build local capacity; (f) develop instruments necessary for increased savings mobilization to
ensure efficient and secure financial intermediation; and (g) promote institutions and
instruments to improve the provision of financial services to the informal and rural sectors so
that institutions in these sectors can be strengthened and become part of the formal financial
sector.
40.   The project design is summarized in Table 2, which shows the technical assistance
planned. Specifically, for each beneficiary, the project would support one or more of the
following: (a) legislative reforms; (b) regulatory reforms and strengthening of regulatory
capacity; (c) organization structuring; (d) institution building; (e) building local capacity
through technical, managerial and market development training; (f) greater competition and
divestiture of GOG shareholding; and (g) market and product development.
41.   Project design builds on the findings of the Ghana Financial Sector Report and ongoing
financial sector work under other projects, such as FINSAC II, PEED, the Private Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC), etc. A summary of these linkages is provided in Table 3.



Table 2: NBFI Project Design Matrix
Capital Market Institutions                             Contractual Savings Institutions                          Capacity Building and Diagnostic Studies
GSE             SRC   BOG NBFI   NIC                                SIC             GRO              SSNIT               HFC             MOF/ U of    Natl.
Dept.                                                                                                     Ghana/    Payments
ICAG    Conc/BOG
Legislative                       Securities Law     NBFI Law       I: revision of                                                        Home Finance
Reform                              1993             1993       19S9 tnsurance:!i                                                      Companies Law                         in* and CFT laY
aw and 1984                                                                1993                             oleenavted
RinLsurancei L,at                                                                                            flDTORrettiy::
AD: TOR rcady i                                                                                              or constltarit.!.;
Regulatory                      Nl: consultant to  l: consultant to  1;: consultant tto                                                  NBFI Law, 1993
Refoeglaoy                                                egulary  e gulatoy .   . ..
nructure       ;tmnture...       i et.r
__D: TOR ready  kD! T1 ORready   D: TOR ready
Organization                      NI: consultant to Nl. consultant to Nl:.suDervisioi NJ.: consultant....
S truct uri ng                   derinc resource  &efine resource   xjpert to  vcrWe Stdy to design.
equirenient E   equirement        r>agairsiaot io  i   eorga;nizationS 
TBO: output in  TBD: output in  1I): TfOR ready: planlXC:::-x i  2j  C  
onsultant    report ...................  .............      r
_           .        _           \    ,              _   _   :   : i:: :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .   .........
Institution  N: computer &    I- procurement NI: procurement  I prudenial  Ni computeriz.. NI- computeriz. I N                              . meet specifl&:   l. R&iewc::     NDataconD
ffi e:equipment fcomputers.   o mfonputers.    uprVIssio,. Ian pl                                                      ccltalie:d.6':. -kt.re of M1DPt1: NesComptt. otf
Building       Jcaring & ::   quipment etc.              I uipmenl etc proceduresectc:.i TBD:wns.:l::: TBD: cons study:               .F..:. .. .s. .l tnt                   I' hse RTGS
etilement:       13: Cons rep.  TBD; Cons;   SD: 'fOR   idy s. ud yto defln¢E  o define tspecifics                      D: l'w'inning }:0lag inosic study:it':St ytcrnl;;i:::::1;::::
_3: ' R   read_                 tudy                       ..  .   :ee  s .a                                                     n ::r plans toL:X V                        be:    -    -::::--  -  ::.:.:.. .......  ...:....: ....
BuilIding    Nl: training      N 1 Advisor to  Nl: Adv isor to  N : SIC Trai ninrg Centerto sLetv  aindfustrv widc. Nl Actuari al I:      T; ;Nl. winn Ing:i- E::i  l~ P: ourcment:&   : l Ex~ecutive::::
Local                  rain SRC staff  rain NBFI Dcpt. raiing center:: :::: :::.:.I.I:I:;::f:i .f :i0 i 0i;0 f; ; :t::: ;:iSt;f. Et:fi:i 0:.. . g.  gemcnt and  ec-:l ping. fri ... ..  ...
0: TOR ready   BD: 'fR  :atr      BD  'fO  reaycostudytant.:ud to ecFi re specmn  nd                   optirran'   C(a              d   .niv.....e....n....n
Capaciiv                        ea y:::::       TBD: TCOR  rifics: TBD; 0)s  kfi                                    S   Sc Trng  i:   Proposal read : 1                              ln
eady                                                       BD  Plans to beI dc  roposalcstu rdY  rear
Divestiture                                                                        Nl. prcpare 51C:  (I::prepa. ..RO:
tor divestiture.:...ai For ibestieu:
DDT TraR    readyy  . .f TOR   ready   ____....__     ___________         .........     __ ::
Market and       l: Equityf                                                       Nldevelop newv fNI. local andT  I;:  Infollrmal Sect. NI us of:inew: I:...  N:panding :;;::N:l P aymer.:
roduct          place. regional                                                    life: and non-bklin tmerriatl.:reins>::; ::: Soc. iSec. &. ..n s.i.nortgage- finan-c. e:: .cess to:rural and.  Syst.msStudy
Development ett fitgt                                                               :1:: D-cns  l  to .- . ........ D- cons Xto:   1l:::l:l AD- :cons.; to  D  cons to:  0D:;:Twinninlg    llTBDO  Design of  D. .  . .f .OR . read.
AD: TfOR ready: ________repare study: f : rcpare report:                                              eti: Aton plan  iff arrangi.isLnnti::;i i ilot programi:i  ::  :  :E  :
K"ey: Shaded boxes represent components covered by the NBFI Assistance Project;
NI: nee ds havc heen identifiicd hy henetici.aries   ..................... AD: Actionils defined for tcchnical assistance    TBD:  Actions n. Ld. d arc ..t in bc d.finet.



13
Table 3: Linkages of NBFI Project with other Bank Projects
Other Bank Projects                  NBFI Project
Privatization   PSAC: Agreement on the        NBFI Project: Support for new financial
schedule for privatization of State  instrument, the PT, and technical advice
Owned Enterprises (SOE) under   for strengthening the role of GSE in
the Divestiture Program        public listing of SOE to be privatized.
(privatization and liquidation)  Support for implementation of the
divestiture plans for SIC and GRO
PETA: Broad support for
Divestiture Implementation
Committee and State Enterprise
Commission to implement the
PSAC program
Securities    PEED: Long Term Debt (LTD)    NBFI Project: Institution building,
Market        study providing support for     building local capacity and market
development of the LTD securities  development for the securities industry
market.                       including support for implementation of
LTD Report
Capacity       FINSAC II: Training for Institute  NBFI Project: Continuation of support
Building      of Chartered Accountants Ghana   provided under FINSAC II for both
(Completed) and training for   ICAG and NIC
National Insurance Commission
(under implementation)
Payments      FINSAC II: BOG computerization NBFI Project: Establishing
System        plan                            infrastructure for financial institutions
PEED: SWIFT System for         (including BOG, the banks, GSE), IRS,
improvements in international  CEPS and GOG treasury to improve
payments                       domestic payments system mechanism
PSAC: Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PETA: Public Enterprise Technical Assistance Project
PEED: Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
FINSAC IT: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit



14
B. Relation with Other Multilateral Assistance.
42.   The Bank plays an important role in improving the regulatory environment and building
local capacity through technical assistance, which in turn creates an appropriate environment
for the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and other private investors to take equity or
debt positions in NBFI. IFC will be particularly involved in the reform of insurance industry to
ensure that the emerging structure is conducive to attracting international private capital.
C. Project Risks.
43.   This is a low risk project. There are two main risks associated with the project, one
exogenous and one endogenous. The exogenous risk is that if GOG allows any laxity in fiscal
and monetary policies, it could lead to further currency depreciation and increased inflationary
pressure. Moreover, the current high interest rate levels on BOG Treasury Bills undermine
NBFI incentives to intermediate and lend to the private sector. The Government, however, has
recently tightened its fiscal and monetary policies in line with the understandings with the
Bank and IMF to address this issue, and ongoing parallel dialogue is expected to lead to
increased price stability and, thus, to a lower interest rate structure.
44.   The endogenous risk is that reform of three or four sub-sectors simultaneously might
stretch the absorptive capacity at the industry and ministry levels, and at the level of some
specific beneficiaries. At the industry and ministry level, this risk is being addressed through a
decentralized implementation arrangement, with adequate independence and autonomy for
each beneficiary, supported by assistance from the Project Coordination and Implementation
Team (PCT) supervised by an expert on NBFI. This project advisor, supported by a consultant
familiar with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures, would assist individual
beneficiaries in procurement, disbursement, accounts and audits, and other reporting
requirements. The fact that each beneficiary was successfully able to formulate the Terms of
Reference (TOR) for each component, with assistance from the project team, is an indicator
that the beneficiaries have adequate in-house capacity to undertake the reform effort. Also, the
mid-term review includes conditions that require timely implementation, thereby allowing for
corrective actions and minimizing the risk.
D. Project Benefits.
45.   This technical assistance project will strengthen the capacity of NBFI by enhancing the
human resource base of the institutions under the project, by improving the payments system
(including a nationwide cash management system) and by promoting greater competition
among NBFI through adequate supervision, privatization of insurance companies and entry of
new firms. This is expected to accelerate innovation in financial services, including increased
availability of term financing (equity and loans), which is currently a critical constraint to
private sector growth.
46.   Strengthening the financial infrastructure and increasing competition will help improve
domestic resource mobilization and make financial intermediation more effective, which in



15
turn would make the allocation of investible resources more efficient. The Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) envisages numerous policies and programs that would decrease Ghana's
reliance on public savings and foreign aid as sources of investment financing in order to rely
increasingly on private domestic savings and foreign capital. CAS projections forecast
Ghana's dependence on aid to decline over the medium term--gross national savings are
projected to grow from 7 percent of GDP in 1994 to 15 percent in 2000 and GDI from 16
percent to around 20 percent of GDP during the same period. Most of the projected growth in
savings (private savings to rise from 2.5 percent to 10 percent of GDP) and investment would
originate in the private sector, provided adequate policies are in place.
47.   Even by sub-Saharan standards, Ghana's recorded savings and investment rates are
much lower than that of comparable developing countries, though micro level survey data
reveal that household savings rates are substantially higher. For reasons outlined earlier, savers
in Ghana tend to hold savings in the form of non-financial real assets, such as building
materials or inventories which are generally neither captured in the national accounts nor are
these savings available to contribute productively to sustained growth. The reluctance of
individuals to save within the formal financial sector hampers effective financial intermediation
and depresses growth because savings are not invested in activities with the highest rates of
return. Ghana's financial system is not deep. This is reflected by low broad money holdings
(M2) of about 17 percent of GDP compared to 79 percent in Malaysia, 37 percent in Kenya and
30 percent in Zimbabwe. Ghanaians also keep nearly half of their monetary assets in currency,
compared to currency-to-deposit ratios of 10 percent in Thailand and Malaysia, and about 20
percent in Kenya and Zimbabwe.
48.   This project will also indirectly contribute to poverty reduction, the central objective of
the Bank's program in Ghana. One-third of Ghana's population, or about five million people,
live below the poverty line. Three-fourths of the poor live in rural and semi-urban areas and it
is in these areas that access to financial services is the most difficult. Although Ghana's
informal financial sector is large, with an estimated 45 percent of all private sector financial
savings mobilized through informal channels, its capacity to intermediate between savers and
investors is limited in part by the poor linkages between the informal and the formal sectors.
This is because formal providers of financial services are concentrated geographically in a few
urban centers and because formal financial institutions discourage small and micro clients even
in areas where they are present. But the informal sector's capability to mobilize savings and its
information base are valuable assets which formal institutions would like to access if the
technology could be identified and demonstrated. There may be other opportunities for
profitable interlinkages between the informal and the formnal sectors, such as bringing savings
generated by susu collectors (informal deposit takers) into the formal sector or allowing traders
to access formal credit by simplifying the use of collateral. It is thus necessary to establish
institutions and introduce instruments that can most appropriately satisfy the savings and credit
needs of those segments of the population which are not currently serviced by the formal
financial sector, particularly the creation of the infrastructure to link rural and semi-urban areas
to urban areas and the informal financial sector to the formal sector. Improving access to
financial services is expected to generate new sources of livelihood for this segment of the
population and thus contribute to poverty reduction. To the extent that diagnostic work on



16
small scale and informal finance (supported by the project) will lead to the implementation of
new mechanisms for mobilizing savings and providing credit to the poor and micro-enterprises,
the project will have contributed to reducing poverty more directly at a later date.
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
49.   The project addresses identified gaps in the non-bank financial sector including Capital
Markets Institutions such as GSE, Securities Regulatory Commission (SRC), and BOG, and
the Contractual Savings Institutions such as National Insurance Commission (NIC), SIC,
Ghana Reinsurance Organization (GRO), and SSNIT. The project also provides for Associated
Financial Infrastructure (domestic payments system) and Capacity Building in the NBFI
sector for the School of Administration at the University of Ghana, Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Ghana (ICAG) and HFC, and Diagnostic Studies at MOF to enable GOG to
prepare strategies for future action in expanding the provision of financial services to rural and
informal sectors.
A. Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE).
50.   Created five years ago, GSE is a well managed institution. As illustrated by the
successful initial public offering of the shares of AGC and the sale of GOG's minority holding
in seven companies to foreign portfolio investors in 1994, GSE benefits from the interest of the
international investment community in emerging markets. However, because of the small
number of companies listed and the low volume of transactions, the exchange is still not self-
sustaining. An effective stock exchange would be critical for the successful implementation of
the accelerated divestiture program. To the extent that the companies to be privatized will have
shares traded publicly on the exchange, the privatization program should bring significant
additional volume to GSE and the industry. It should also help enhance the image of GSE
among the international investment community in order to attract foreign investments into the
country and build greater awareness about GSE among the investing public. However, GSE
would need to prepare itself to handle a larger number of transactions while at the same time
bringing its operations to internationally accepted standards, particularly in terms of settlement
time and number of failed deliveries.
51.   Since its creation, GSE has benefited from several technical assistance (TA) programs.
Under FINSAC 11, TA components included public education on the role of GSE, training of
staff and other market operators and the creation of a small fund of US$30,000 for use as
working capital credit to small and medium sized firms wishing to raise capital through the
stock exchange. It will benefit from the Long Term Debt Study currently underway as part of
the PEED. This NBFI Credit will build on the technical assistance already provided to GSE
through support for the following components:



17
Institution Building.
Under this component, support will be provided for the following:
52.   Clearing and settlement of securities. Many market operators have identified the
absence of a modern, centralized clearing and settlement system as one of the major
weaknesses of GSE. The official settlement period is 14 days compared with the international
norm of 5 days or less, and yet the proportion of failed deliveries, i.e., deliveries not completed
within the 14 day settlement period, is high despite the low transaction volume. With the
anticipated increase in the volume of transactions, the risk of a major failure in the system
would also increase. An IFC financed study of a centralized clearing and settlement system
provides a blueprint for the system and identifies various options which may be pursued. The
clearing and settlement system would also cover government bonds and other fixed-income
securities. Technical assistance is now needed to select the option, complete the design,
procure the equipment, set up the appropriate procedures within GSE, and train staff. This
component would include a consultant for five months to identify the most cost effective
option and assist GSE in selecting the vendor and negotiating the acquisition of the system on a
turnkey basis. The cost of this component is US$1.425 million over a three-year period.
Appropriate coordination with BOG would also be maintained during the design and
implementation of this component to ensure full compatibility with the system proposed to be
installed for the modernization of the payments system.
53.   Improving Operational Efficiency. GSE lacks adequate computer and
telecommunications equipment to cope with an increase in the volume of transactions. It is
proposed that under this component support would be provided to GSE to procure computers,
office equipment and reference material. The cost of this component is US$0.2 million over a
three-year period.
54.   Issue and trading of equity securities and links with other stock exchanges in
Africa. GSE lacks the in-house skills required to give advice to its members, potential
investors, corporate issuers and the local banking community in areas such as the structuring of
new security issues, trading and settlement, securities law, security portfolio management and
new product development. Under this component an equity specialist would be hired to
strengthen the technical capacity of GSE and other market participants in these areas and assist
the stock exchange in implementing various components of this credit. To increase the supply
of securities in the capital markets, the equity specialist would assist GSE and its members in:
(a) identifying likely candidates for public placement among enterprises in the divestiture
program, recommending which of the three lists on GSE, if any, would be most appropriate or
whether an indirect mechanism such as the PT (discussed under MOF) should be used instead;
(b) structuring new equity issues; (c) upgrading rules, regulations and practices of GSE to
international standards; (d) reviewing options to establish links with the other stock markets in
the region, such as dual listing of stocks, issue of depository receipts and other forms of
cooperative arrangements; and (e) designing and implementing the educational and
promotional campaign planned by GSE to promote the role of the securities industry in the
development of the private sector. The equity specialist would participate in building the local



18
implementation capacity by working in close cooperation with local counterparts at GSE. In
addition, to enhance local capacity building, specific efforts would be made to assign some of
the tasks defined in the TOR to one or more local consultants and specialists, whenever the
relevant skills are available in the country. The cost of this component is US$0.3 million for
24 man-months of consultant spread over a 36-month period.
Building Local Capacity.
55.   Under this component support will be provided for strengthening the GSE training
program. GSE organizes and offers several training programs on its premises, however, there
is a need to increase the training capacity of the exchange and ensure that the proposal to
strengthen existing training facilities at GSE is the most cost effective option. The cost of the
program, including development and production of training material, is US$0.5 million over a
three-year period. A special effort would be made to hire local consultants and specialists
whenever the appropriate skills exist in the country.
Market and Product Development.
56.   Distribution of Securities. This component would provide financing for: (a) the
educational campaign designed by the Equity Specialist (above) to increase the awareness and
understanding by the local population of the role of the securities market in the context of the
divestiture of public enterprises and the development of the private sector; (b) the training of
other financial institutions in the distribution of securities; and (c) the dissemination of
information on public offerings of shares to non-resident Ghanaians and foreign investors.
Agreement was reached on the outlines for the above programs to administered by GSE. The
cost of this component is US$0.7 million over a 36-month period, including US$0.3 million for
the cost of the educational campaign and US$0.4 million for the training of financial
institutions.
B. Securities Regulatory Commission (SRC).
57.   Although a Securities Regulatory Commission is provided for in the Securities Industry
Law 1993, it has not yet been established, and the Governor of BOG is exercising the functions
of the SRC temporarily. SRC has a very important role in the supervision and regulation of the
securities industry, including the screening, licensing and supervision of market operators; the
formulation of detailed regulations and code of conduct; and the surveillance of securities
trading with the objective of ensuring the integrity and transparency of the market and
protecting the interest of investors. Therefore, it is important to set up the SRC on a priority
basis and to appoint an independent Commissioner. This project will support the following
components to enable BOG and the Government to establish and operationalize SRC.
Strengthiening Regulatory Capacity and Organization Structuring.
58.   Under this component, a consultant would be appointed at SRC to prepare regulations
and procedures for the Commission with the legal advice of a Securities Lawyer (see below) to
propose an organizational structure, assist in selecting staff, and recommend specifications of



19
computer and communications equipment. The cost of this component is US$0.1 million over
12 months. Legal support to the consultant would be provided by a lawyer specialized in
securities law ("the Securities Lawyer"). The Securities Lawyer would provide 12 man-
months of support on legal matters: (a) to the Consultant (above) retained to set up the
Commission; (b) to the Residential Advisor (below) who will provide day-to-day advice and
training to the staff of SRC; and (c) to GSE in matters of securities law. The cost of this
component is US$0.15 million over 30 months.
Institution building.
59.   Procurement of computer and communications equipment. The consultant retained
above will also assist in the procurement of the appropriate computer and communication
equipment. Procurement will be on a turn-key basis and will include the training of the SRC
staff and the implementation of the operating system. The cost of this component is
US$0.5 million.
Building local capacity.
60.   Resident advisor for Legislative reform and Training of staff. Once the
commission is set up, a resident advisor would provide technical advice to SRC, GSE and other
market participants for a period of 24 months. He will provide technical inputs to the
Securities Lawyer who will draft the regulations, procedures and code of conduct which the
SRC will implement. He will propose a detailed training program for the SRC, its staff and the
other market operators. The program will include courses in Accra and in capital market
centers abroad and information and familiarization trips to two or three major stock exchanges
abroad. The cost of this component is US$0.5 million over two years, including the cost of the
resident advisor (US$0.25 million over two years) and the cost of the training programs
(US$0.25 million).
C. Bank of Ghana.
61.   The NBFI Department at the BOG. Under the Financial Institutions (Non-Banking)
Law, 1993, BOG is responsible for licensing, regulating and supervising the nine different
types of NBFI providing a variety of services. These include deposit taking institutions such as
savings and loan institutions, credit unions and building societies; and financial intermediaries
specializing in leasing, mortgage financing and acceptances. BOG is in the process of
establishing the NBFI Department to regulate and supervise institutions covered by the law.
Regulations regarding the above institutions are being drafted in consultation with members of
the industry, however, some gaps remain in the effort to build in-house expertise for
satisfactory licensing and supervision of the non-bank financial sector.
Organization Structure.
62.   A consultant would be appointed to assist the resident advisor (below) to define the
resource requirements of the NBFI Department in terms of the organizational structure, needs



20
assessment for an Management Information System (MIS) system and other equipment. The
cost of this study would be US$0.05 million over three months.
Institutional Building.
63.   This Credit would support procurement of equipment including computers, etc., based
on the requirements identified by the consultant above. The MIS system, including all the
hardware and software, must be fully compatible with the computer system currently being
installed in some parts of BOG under FINSAC II. The cost of this component is US$0.15
million, including hardware, software, and installation costs.
Regulatory Reforms
64.   With the assistance of an existing consultant, BOG has already started drafting
regulations for some categories of NBFI for circulation for comments by interested parties
(operating guidelines for S & L were published in May 1995). However, the contract of this
consultant, who had been financed under FINSAC 11, is over and therefore under this Credit, a
Resident Advisor would be hired, probably a financial lawyer, in the Department for two years
to assist in making it fully operational. The Resident Advisor would provide day-to-day
technical advice, would review existing legislation, draft new regulations for each category of
NBFI and define organizational training needs (including a training plan for local and overseas
technical training for staff in the Department). The cost of this component is US$0.4 million.
Building Local Capacity.
65.   Local training programs, using local and foreign resource persons, would be prepared
based on the needs assessment conducted by the Consultant (hired under Organization
Structure component). In areas such as regulation of leasing companies and some other
specialized subjects, where overseas training may be the best and most cost-effective solution,
efforts would also be made to build local capacity for follow-up skills enrichment programs.
The Resident Advisor would actively assist in transferring skills and building local capacity.
This component will cost approximately US$0.325 million.
D. National Insurance Commission (NIC).
66.   Regulation, supervision and licensing in the insurance industry is the responsibility of
the NIC. But NIC has not been able to provide appropriate regulation and supervision for the
industry due to a shortage of financial resources, office space and qualified professional staff.
With assistance in the form of a loan from the insurance industry, NIC has agreed to acquire
office space from the DIC. While this credit would provide TA support to NIC, its move to
acceptable premises is a precondition for the successful implementation of the proposed
program to provide effective regulation and supervision of the insurance industry.



21
Organization Structure and Support to Insurance Supervision.
67.   Under this Credit support would be provided to NIC to hire a resident advisor, probably
an insurance supervision expert, for a two-year period. The advisor will initially assess needs
for the establishment of the commission, including design and implementation of an
organization structure, data collection and evaluation systems, as well as in training programs
for NIC staff, with special emphasis on the creation of adequate internal capacity in insurance
supervision. The advisor will also be responsible for the revision of the Insurance Law and
drafting of the Insurance Regulations. For this purpose, he would recruit the services of a
consultant team (discussed below) and would coordinate its activities. The advisor will support
NIC in implementing mechanisms and procedures for the enforcement of regulations, such as
liquidation of companies that do not satisfy capital adequacy guidelines. The advisor will
participate actively with NIC staff in on-site and off-site supervision and enforcement activity.
This component would cost US$0.375 million.
Legislative and Regulatory Reforms.
68.   Support would also be provided to NIC to hire a team of consultants, one expert in
insurance regulations and the other in drafting legal documents, for a period of six months.
This team would report to the advisor (above) and would submit the revised insurance
legislation to the government and the parliament for approval. Subsequently, the team would
undertake the preparation of updated regulations as well as the guidelines for prudential
supervision. This component will require twelve man-months of the consulting team at a cost
of US$0.2 million.
69.   While NIC agrees that it must move to a system of prudential supervision based on
monitoring the insurer's liquidity, solvency and risk-based capital adequacy, it had suggested
that NIC retain its veto power over policy wording and premium rate setting, because the
Ghanaian insurance industry was still in the early stages of development. Many consumers
were not well educated nor were they aware of their rights, and thus relied on NIC to protect
their interests. The team drafting the revised law and the regulations together with the Advisor
would consider this aspect when legislations are going to be reviewed. One option would be to
allow NIC to retain these veto powers for a certain number of years (say five years).
Companies would file proposed rate or wording changes with NIC but would not need NIC
approval to proceed, nor would requests for clarifications from NIC be reasons for delaying
product introduction. However, NIC would have the authority to query or even cancel a
proposed wording or rate change based on clearly specified objections, such as attempts by a
company to take undue advantage of customers, anti-competitive behavior, etc.
70.   A review of reinsurance legislation would also consider the following three options to
replace the current requirement that 20 percent of each insurance policy issued by every
primary insurer be reinsured with GRO: (a) this requirement simply be annulled with no
regulation on the amount of reinsurance required; (b) insurers be required to place a specified
percentage of their reinsurance business locally with one or more reinsurance companies
within Ghana on the basis of the overall portfolio rather than for every policy individually; and



22
(c) require companies to place a certain percentage of their reinsurance with local reinsurers on
first refusal basis, allowing them to take the business overseas if local reinsurance rates are
higher than rates available overseas. Legislation should be broad in its scope while the
regulations would be specific in their definition, linking this particular requirement to the
insurance capacity in the industry.
Institution Building.
71.   Under this Credit an MIS expert (data processing system for insurance supervision)
would be hired at NIC for four months to assess MIS needs and to procure hardware and
software. The cost of this component is US$0.5 million including the services of the MIS
expert, computer hardware and software and MIS training of NIC staff.
Building Local Capacity.
72.   The local capacity building need of NIC would be handled partly through Industry
Training Center, after the conversion of SIC's training center into an industry wide training
facility, and partly through programs at University of Ghana. The Resident Advisor would
assist in the preparation of a plan for overseas and local training for NIC staff which would cost
US$0.2 million.
.The Insurance Industry Structure.
73.   The insurance industry in Ghana consists of one large corporation, SIC, two medium
sized private companies, several small companies, and one state-owned reinsurance
organization, GRO. SIC dominates the industry (with nearly two-thirds of the total market) on
the basis of a monopoly on all GOG and SOE business (which accounts for nearly 40 percent
of the industry premiums) and GRO enjoys a monopoly with an obligatory legal cession of 20
percent on every insurance policy written.
E. State Insurance Corporation.
74.   GOG's program for the accelerated divestiture of state-owned enterprises and banks
could affect a substantial portion of SIC's business. SIC is to be reorganized with special
emphasis on new product development, more aggressive marketing and quick response to
clients prior to divestiture, expected by 1998. In view of the importance of SIC to the stability
of the insurance industry and the large number of employees at SIC, it has been agreed that SIC
would be restructured before divestiture. This is necessary to make SIC's operations more
efficient so that after restructuring of the industry it will be able to compete effectively on a
level playing field with other insurance companies.
Organizational restructuring.
75.   Under this Credit, an insurance industry expert would review options for strengthening
the organizational structure of SIC to help it operate more efficiently in a liberalized
environment, once its monopoly is removed. The consultant would work closely with the MIS



23
expert (below) to identify the skills and equipment requirement and the organization structure
appropriate for SIC to operate as an internationally competitive private sector insurance
provider. This consultant is expected to take two months to complete the diagnostic phase and
then return for a period of four months (after the study has been approved) to assist SIC in the
implementation of the action plan. The estimated cost of this component is about US$0.1
million.
Institution Building.
76.   Through computerization and upgrading of the technical operations in the underwriting
department, this credit would support SIC's ongoing computerization program by using a
specialized MIS expert for 3 months to: (a) evaluate the existing computerization plan
specially with the view to establishing a local area network and designing an MIS; and (b)
evaluate the hardware and software needs of the corporation and prepare an implementation
strategy for the computerization program. The total cost of this component including the cost
of an MIS expert for three months, hardware/software, and computer is US$1.95 million,
which includes US$0.2 million retroactive financing for equipment already contracted for
purchase provided procurement has been made in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines.
Preparing SICfor divestiture.
77.   This credit would support the services of Divestiture Specialists (individual firm or
consortium of experts) to assist GOG in its efforts to divest its shareholding in SIC. The
responsibility for policy decisions (timing, etc.) related to the divestiture of SIC rests with
MOF but DIC and SEC would be involved in the execution of the divestiture process,
including the selection of Divestiture Specialists. The Divestiture Specialists will undertake a
valuation of the firm, assess an appropriate sale price, devise a sale program and assist in the
effective implementation of the divestiture exercise. The Divestiture Group would comprise
investment bankers, lawyers and accountants to prepare SIC for divestiture, prepare required
documentation and solicit interested parties. The cost of this component is US$0.25 million.
78.   In the event SIC is privatized before the expected date, it was agreed that the
Government, in consultation with IDA, would have the option of reallocating the funds for the
local capacity building, market and product development components to one of the other
beneficiaries under the project. It was also agreed that should the Government decide to
implement the privatization component of SIC before the institution building component
(including computerization), the prospective buyer would be given the option of buying SIC
"as-is" or having GOG implement the computerization program, the cost of which would be
reflected in the sale price.
Building Local Capacity.
79.   The local capacity building component of SIC would be handled through the industry
training center (after the present SIC's training center is converted into the industry wide
training center). The consultant (hired under Organizational Restructuring component) would



24
assist in the preparation of the local and overseas training program for SIC staff. The budget
for the overseas and local training program (excluding computer training) for SIC staff is
US$0.2 million.
Improved marketing strategyfor new insurance products and product development.
80.   Under this credit, an advisor would be appointed for one year to develop new products
and markets with special focus on attracting business from industries such as mining, timber
and cocoa and on developing new life insurance products which are attractive under
inflationary conditions. The results of this initiative will be available equally to all insurance
and reinsurance companies. However, the effort would be coordinated at SIC only because it
provides the commercial environment necessary for successful product development. The
advisor will work closely with NIC and the industry training center. The estimated cost of this
component is US$0.125 million.
F. Ghana Reinsurance Organization (GRO).
81.   GRO operates on commercial principles but nearly 60 percent of its gross revenues are
derived from its monopoly. Under GOG's privatization plan, GRO is expected to be divested
by 1998 after removing the monopoly in its favor and converting it into a limited liability
company. Under this corporate plan there would be no need to restructure GRO before
privatization. However, the changing environment in the industry warrants that GRO diversify
its markets and undertake a skills enrichment program to ensure long-term sustainability in an
industry where rules are to change in favor of a level playing field. The first step, however,
would be the conversion of GRO into a limited liability company, according to the Companies
Code.
Institution Building.
82.   Under this credit, an MIS expert would be hired for 3 months to implement a plan to
upgrade the technical operations of GRO, including procurement and installation of hardware
and software packages and training for staff at a cost of US$0.325 million. The expert would
be available for two phases: first phase of one month to define the need and prepare
procurement documents; and, second phase to prepare reports after receiving bids from vendors
and preparation of training program.
Preparing GROfor privatization.
83.   This Credit would support the appointment of a Divestiture Group, comprising
investment bankers, lawyers and accountants, to assist GRO in incorporation as a private
limited liability company (and assist in any required amendment to the GRO Law, 1984 by
proposing revised legislation), prepare the offer documents, and seek suitable investors. The
responsibility for policy decisions (timing, etc.) related to the divestiture of GRO rests with
MOF but DIC and State Enterprises Corporation (SEC) would be involved in the execution of
the divestiture process, including the selection of Divestiture Specialists. In line with the need
to increase capital, GOG may consider the issue of new shares in addition to, or instead of,



25
selling its existing shares to the private investors (thus increasing GRO capital by diluting
GOG holdings). The cost of this component is US$0.25 million.
84.  In the event GRO is privatized before the expected date, it was agreed that the
Government, in consultation with IDA, would have the option of reallocating the funds for the
local capacity building, market and product development components to one of the other
beneficiaries under the project. It was also agreed that should the Government decide to
implement the privatization component of GRO before the institution building component
(including computerization), the prospective buyer would be given the option of buying GRO
"as-is" or having GOG implement the computerization program, the cost of which would be
reflected in the sale price.
Building Local Capacity.
85.   The local capacity building component of GRO would be handled through conversion
of SIC's training center into industry training center and the Resident Advisor would assist
GRO in the preparation of a training plan for overseas training of its staff, the cost of which is
included in the market and product development component below.
Market and Product Diversification.
86.   Under this Credit a Resident Advisor, an expert on reinsurance marketing, would be
hired for a period of one year to help GRO diversify its markets and to develop new products.
The Resident Advisor would also evaluate the risks and rewards resulting from the entry of
GRO into the local primary insurance market. He would also participate in local capacity
building programs within the company and in the implementation of a twinning arrangement
with an internationally known reinsurance company for up to eighteen months, to assist in
market development, skills transfer and if direct underwriting is to be added to GRO's
business, then assistance in introducing these services. The twinning arrangement, the skills
transfer and overseas training program, and the Resident Advisor would be US$0.475 million.
G. Social Security And National Insurance Trust (SSNIT).
87.   SSNIT, which is a statutory body governed by the Social Security Law, 1991, has
administered the social security plan since it was restructured in 1991. It collects social
security contributions and makes payments under three main benefits: (a) old age pension; (b)
disability pension; and (c) lumpsum survivors benefit. It operates a partially-fumded, defined-
benefit scheme to which all establishments (except the armed forces which is exempt and self-
employed individuals whose participation is voluntary) are required to contribute a total of 17.5
percent of the salary of every employee (5 percent by the employee and 12.5 percent by the
employer). SSNIT's operations were review recently by Coopers & Lybrand, in a study
financed by FINSAC II. The review concluded that SSNIT was an efficiently managed
institution and based on acceptable assumptions, SSNIT was expected to remain solvent for the
next 20 years. This conclusion was supported by the triennial actuarial review of SSNIT
carried out by the US Social Security Administration.



26
88.   SSNIT's role in stimulating the development of financial markets was restricted by
Government regulations but these were removed in 1991. Consequently, unlike most other
countries, where prudential guidelines govern the investment portfolio of the social security
fund in an attempt to limit exposure to risk and ensure liquidity and solvency, SSNIT is now
free to determine its portfolio. Therefore, SSNIT has formulated guidelines for the
management of its investment portfolio. A copy of these policy guidelines have been provided
to the Bank for suggestions on strengthening them.
89.   SSNIT is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by GOG according to the
provisions of the Social Security Law, 1991. SSNIT's net assets, as of December 31, 1994,
were C 297 billion and income for the year 1994 was C 111 billion, making it the largest NBFI
and the second largest financial institution in the country (after Ghana Commercial Bank). As
the single largest investor in Ghana, SSNIT plays a very important role in stimulating the
development of the capital markets and in providing long-term finance to the Ghanaian
economy. Under this project assistance would be provided to SSNIT for skills enhancement
and product and market development.
Capacity Building.
90.   While SSNIT conducts most of its operational training in-house, there is a need to
utilize external training for specific categories of management and operational staff,
particularly in strengthening investment management and actuarial skills. Since training for
actuaries is usually provided on-the-job, SSNIT would like to make arrangements for
attachments of four-to six months for selected staff at social security, reinsurance or insurance
companies in Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. In
addition, funding would be provided to cover the cost of the triennial actuarial review, which
uses specialized actuaries and accountants, so that it may be used to build skills locally through
transfer of technology. Local and overseas training would also be provided for investment
managers and other staff in specific areas. The cost of this component is US$0.75 million over
a four year period.
Market and Product Development.
91.   SSNIT currently has roughly 670,000 contributors, which is estimated to represent only
about 10 percent of the Ghanaian work force. Even though the law covers all employees, the
majority of the workers are not in the system currently because they work in the informal
sector. The current defined benefit scheme based on a 17.5 percent contribution is not viewed
as satisfying the needs of these people in the informal sector. Hence SSNIT is interested in
designing social security schemes and life insurance programs that would respond to the needs
of this category of workers. While SSNIT has started collecting some data that might be useful
for this purpose, it would like to benefit from experiences that other countries have had in this
area. Under this credit, provision is being made for SSNIT to exchange experiences and know-
how through a twinning arrangement or through the use of consultants experienced in the
design and operation of social security and pension fund schemes for workers in the small and
informal sectors. The cost of this component is US$0.5 million over a two year period.



27
H. Associated Infrastructure and Capacity Building.
92.   One of the key objectives of the project is the creation of local capacity to enable the
non-bank financial sector in Ghana to develop the skills-base required to sustain its projected
growth. Capacity building is necessary at three different levels. Firstly, the foundation of
skills development is at the undergraduate and graduate levels, where greater exposure must be
provided to concepts relating to the non-bank financial sector. Secondly, there should be
opportunities to build on the above foundation with formal, professional training in various
sub-sectors of the non-bank financial sector, for instance, similar to the activities of the
Institute of Bankers in Ghana in the banking sector. Thirdly, there is a need for skills
upgrading for professionals already working in the non-bank financial sector.
93.   To support capacity building at these three levels, the project would provide technical
assistance and institutional support for: (a) GSE's in-house training facility in the form of
training material and equipment (discussed above under GSE); (b) SIC's training center for its
strengthening as a center for the entire insurance industry; (c) HFC for the capacity building
and institutional strengthening through twinning arrangements; (d) School of Administration at
the University of Ghana in the form of equipment, training material, and trainers for financial
sector issues; (e) institution building support for ICAG; and (f) a diagnostic review by MOF to
design a sustainable structure for the Management Development and Productivity Institute
(MDPI).
I. Insurance Industry Training Center.
94.   Agreement has been reached with SIC, NIC, GRO and other members of the industry to
convert SIC's existing training center, which offers training courses for new employees,
advanced courses for middle management, and other specialized courses for insurance agents,
into an industry-wide facility owned on a cooperative basis by all interested participants on a
voluntary basis. Similar to the structure created for the National Banking College, SIC would
sell or lease the facility jointly to interested industry participants on the basis of a fair sharing
of the cost, based on some appropriate formula, such as size within the industry and planned
utilization. The training center could be managed by a managing committee, whose members
would represent each major owner. This managing committee would be responsible for hiring
managers to operate the center and for supervising the management of the center. Operating
and investment expenses would require prior approval of the managing committee representing
the owners, who would share any portion of the operating expenses which may not be covered
by revenues generated from fees and charges for training programs etc. Capital investments
would also be financed jointly.
New Ownership Structure of the Training Center.
95.   Legal assistance would be provided to SIC to implement the actual spin-off of the
center from SIC into a cooperatively owned, independent center. This would require services
of a local lawyer for three months at a cost of US$30,000.



28
Institution Building.
96.   This Credit would support hiring of a consultant, an insurance training expert, for a
period of one year to review and expand various training programs offered at the center for new
employees, middle management and agents, for seminars and for advanced courses and for
some essential upgrading of the facilities at the SIC training center. The consultant would also
review the possibility of providing preparatory courses to students appearing for the Fellow of
Chartered Institute of Insurance (FCII) and the Associate of the Chartered Institute of Insurance
(ACII) examinations, would prepare plans for procuring textbooks and audio-visual equipment
and would assist in the development of training material. The cost of this component is
US$0.55 million, including US$0.2 million for the insurance industry training expert and
upgrading of existing facilities, and US$0.35 million for training material and equipment.
J. Home Finance Company.
97.   Due to the current relatively high inflation and interest rates, most financial assets and
liabilities in Ghana are short term. However, two modes of term finance have become
increasingly popular in Ghana--leasing, with 2-5 years financing, and inflation linked mortgage
loans for housing, with 15-20 years financing. The institutions providing these types of
financing are regulated by BOG within the framework of the Financial Institutions (Non-
Banking) Law, 1993. Also, due to high inflation and high interest rates, nominal housing loans
are not good instruments to resolve the long term housing needs of the population. Building
societies, structured after the British model, mobilize only small amounts of resources and
commercial banks concentrate mostly on short-term finance. HFC has initiated an innovative
housing finance scheme, based on linking mortgage loan repayments to inflation rates. HFC
has recently mobilized additional capital by offering 25 percent of its capital to the public.
HFC shares will now be traded in the GSE. HFC is also planning to issue linked bonds secured
by its mortgages to the public, which would also be quoted on the GSE.
Institution Building.
98.   Under this credit support would be provided to HFC to procure and install hardware
and software for inflation-linked loans for use by HFC and by first-tier mortgage finance
institutions at a cost of US$0.5 million.
Capacity Building.
99.   This credit would support HFC on its proposal for training of its professional staff, and
transfer of technology through twinning arrangements with similar institutions in three
countries: Malaysia, where a similar second-tier mortgage financing is active; Israel, where
inflation-linked mortgage financing is popular; and India, where HFC has identified solutions
to the issue of construction finance for contractors. It is estimated that a total of two years of
twinning arrangements with the three institutions, including provision for experts to visit
Ghana for training programs and seminars, is expected to cost US$0.5 million.



29
K. University of Ghana School of Administration.
100.  University of Ghana School of Administration offers a two year diploma, Bachelor's
and Master's degrees in Business and Public Administration. Specialization includes finance,
accounting and insurance. In addition to the degree courses, the school conducts a variety of
executive development programs for the private sector companies, including courses tailored to
the needs of a particular company. This credit would support a proposal submitted by the
School Of Administration on the resources required for a three-year program to expand and
improve its executive development programs and would be linked to number of student-days of
executive development training provided by the School of Administration. This component
includes equipment, training material and training at a total cost of US$0.6 million.
L. Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana (ICAG).
101.  ICAG has received support under FINSAC I and II. While its revenues from
membership subscription and examination fees do not cover the cost of supporting student
training programs, it is expected that proposed cost reductions and increased fees would enable
it to cover its current operating deficit. Meanwhile, to continue the support provided by
FINSAC, support would be provided to ICAG for a one-time assistance of US$75,000 for
training equipment and material.
M. Management Development and Productivity Institute.
102.  Before an assistance program can be designed for the Institute, it is necessary to
undertake a comprehensive review of the objectives of the Institute in the context of other
similar institutes in Accra, its target audience and its mission statement. Based on these goals
and the target audience identified, MDPI would be able to prepare a plan for sustainable growth
over a specified time frame and identify the associated financial requirements. It was agreed
with GOG that the Implementation Agency, MOF, would use a training specialist to conduct a
diagnostic review and prepare an implementation plan for MDPI. The cost of this component
is US$50,000.
N. Payment Systems.
103.  The need for payment systems reform and modernization has been mentioned in some
of the earlier reports of the Bank, such as "Ghana: Accelerated Growth Study" and "Ghana
Financial Sector: Bringing Savers and Investors Together". These reports had pointed out that
lack of efficient payment systems was impeding public expenditure management on the one
hand, and sterilizing a quarter of M2 as float on the other (a detailed description of the
payments system in Ghana is given in Attachment 1). A diagnostic study of payment systems
in Ghana and areas for reform and modernization were clearly identified and agreed upon with
the Government.
104.  Payment Systems and Postal Giro Studies. In order to make a thorough and in-depth
assessment of the user needs that would guide the installation of an optimum payments
infrastructure covering cash and non-cash payments and to evaluate the alternatives available



30
within the constraints of the Ghanaian situation, a payments system study by a firm of
international repute would need to be commissioned by BOG. The general principles guiding
such a study are given in Attachment 1. In order to provide payments and funds transfer
facilities in those places that do not have adequate banking coverage and to introduce a degree
of competition in these services, postal giro services should be introduced in Ghana. The
satellite-based data communication capability that will shortly become available in the private
sector would be used to link 100 postal locations through the very small aperture terminal
(VSAT). Computer hardware and software would be provided for accounts maintenance, and
human resources geared up for this new service. Since this effort will require substantial
groundwork on the part of Ghana Posts and Telegraph (GP&T), GP&T will be asked to initiate
work on the design and staff training needs of a postal giro. A separate study will be
commissioned for this purpose. The cost for the above two studies is estimated at US$0.5
million.
105.  Legislative Reform. To put payments, clearing and settlement on a sound footing and
enhance confidence in the use of non-cash payment instruments, it is necessary to develop
appropriate legislative and regulatory framework. For this purpose, a firm of legal consultants
would be retained by BOG to study models of such laws in developed economies and define
the most desirable features for the Ghanaian system. The cost of this component is US$0.2
million.
Institution Building
106.  Establishing Financial Data Communications Infrastructure. A data
communications network is the backbone which enables transition from paper to electronic
modes of payment, clearing and settlement, and hence to greater speed and security in
payments. The emerging preferred technology for the purpose is VSAT using adequately
leased bandwidth from one of the commercial satellites with a footprint over the targeted area.
The major expense here is for setting up a satellite hub, which would be borne by private firms
licensed by GOG to provide satellite-based communications services. Some of these
companies hope to have hubs on the ground by the end of 1995. The funding needs would now
relate to computer hardware and software required by the users to link to the network, and in
some cases VSAT dishes and related equipment (as specified in the following paragraphs under
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) for high value funds transfer and networked automated
teller machine (ATM) capability). GOG is interested in ensuring that the network is designed
to permit cost-effective expansions of the network as and when needed to satisfy the needs of
other sectors of the economy, such as education, etc.
107.  RTGS for High value Funds Transfer. The two objectives here would be to allow
immediate transaction settlement in the high-value funds market, and provide a basis for
Delivery vs. Payment (DVP) ability in the securities markets. RTGS implies that high-value
funds transfers among banks (for trading on their own account or on clients) are settled on the
books of the central bank on a transaction by transaction basis. DVP implies that payments for
completed securities trades are settled almost simultaneously. Both measures reduce credit and
liquidity risks in financial markets to a minimum.



31
108.  The network requirements for an RTGS can be met by using the VSAT capability now
being installed, or by leased lines from GP&T if the network is expected to be limited to Accra.
The former is preferable as it could induce new financial services providers to locate outside
Accra. The RTGS would then require a host computer at BOG and associated customized
software. The cost of this component would be US$1.5 million.
109.  Networked ATM capability. One of the measures which can address the reluctance of
savers to deposit relatively small amounts in banks (Attachment 1) is the use of ATM.
However, ATM are expensive, and no one bank may find it profitable to install more than a
few strategically located ATM. The satellite-based networking capability makes it possible for
banks to have a shared ATM network with minimum capital investment by each bank. The
requirement here would then relate to the central computer facility and related software for
executing and settling ATM transactions across banks. It is conceivable that the private
network providers may in due course offer such a facility and hence promote the installation of
a larger number of ATM. The design of this network would also assist in improving
availability of cash, service quality and security for users keeping in mind the very high usage
of cash in Ghana.
110.  Computerization and Automation of Clearinghouses. The objective here would be
to speed up the clearing and settlement of checks to make them more attractive as payment
instruments and thus reduce the dominance of cash. The measures required here would
supplement the ongoing computerization of BOG under FINSAC II through financing of
components such as computerization of the clearing house which are not covered by FINSAC
II, and related issues. As far as settlement is concerned, the requirement would be to install
relatively small computers (pentiums at other centers, a mini-computer at Accra), necessary
software and printers at the 11 clearinghouses across the country. These would be used for:
(a) settlement of local clearing; and (b) communication of intercity clearing effects over the
network already envisaged in BOG plan. The cost of this component is US$0.5 million.
111.  To speed up the clearing process, BOG has already initiated work on the introduction of
magnetic ink character recognition (MICR) checks. Together with the introduction of MICR
checks, banks will install encoders on their premises, and there will be need for reader-sorters
to capture information off the checks for settlement purposes. The estimated requirement for
reader-sorters at Accra (which has sufficient volumes to justify automation) would be US$0.85
million.
Building Local Capacity.
112.  In order to develop human resources to manage the new systems suggested above,
training and skills enhancement will be required, in addition to the training provided by
equipment and software vendors, at two levels: (a) decision-making levels; and (b) operational
levels. At the decision making level two workshops could be organized by the National
Payments Council: (a) a workshop to understand the critical role of data communications
technology in funds transfers and the expansion of efficient financial services; and (b) a
workshop to understand the operational requirements that go into the provision of services such



32
as ATM, electronic funds transfer and computerized clearing and settlement. At the
operational level training would have to imparted in about 5 batches of 20 each to personnel of
the financial industry who operate the electronic systems to be installed. This training would
cover ability to use communications software, data management and electronic transfer. The
cost of this component is US$0.25 million.
113.  In order to provide continuous support and expert advice on implementation of the
payment systems modernization project in all its ramifications, a payment systems expert will
be posted at BOG for a period of two years. The cost of this component is US$0.25 million
over the two years.
0. Ministry of Finance (MOF).
114.  Financial Services for the Informal and Rural Sectors. MOF plans to undertake a
diagnostic review with the objective of addressing constraints to the availability of financial
services for small savers and borrowers in urban and rural areas. The methodology of the
review would be: (a) to collate and recap the substantial amount of literature that is already
available on this subject in Ghana and at the Bank; (b) to assess the needs of target groups and
institutions for access to savings and credit, some of which have been identified below; (c) to
analyze some of the internationally acclaimed success stories of institutions (such as BKK in
Indonesia, Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and other examples from Thailand, India, Brazil and
Latin America) which have demonstrated the ability to reach significant numbers of people
who traditionally have the least access to financial services, both savings and credit; and (d) to
use the above reviews to investigate the feasibility of adapting one of these successful
institutions to the Ghanaian environment on a pilot basis.
115.  This review would assess the needs of institutions and mechanisms which provide
financial services for small and micro productive enterprises and initiatives by those in the
poorest segments of the society, both in the agricultural sector and the non-agricultural sector,
such as artisans, small traders, hairdressers, tailors, peasant farmers, etc. This review would
cover informal savings and credit mechanisms such as susu collectors, small and micro
entrepreneurs (Council of Independent Business Association as well as the National Bureau of
Small Scale Industries), relatively "formal" institutions such as community banks and S&Ls,
cooperative institutions, small scale finance institutions such as Women's World Banking, etc.,
formal sector rural banks and non-bank institutions, as well as consumers such as teachers,
workers, civil servants, students, etc.
116.  This project would provide technical assistance for the diagnostic review and the design
of the pilot program. It would also provide technical assistance for the follow-on pilot
initiative based on the design recommended by the diagnostic studies. The cost of this
component is estimated at US$3.75 million, comprising US$0.75 million for six to twelve
months of detailed diagnostic reviews and preparatory exercises, including seminars and other
participatory planning activities needed to design the pilot program for Ghana, and US$3.0
million for the implementation of the pilot project, which would be used for technical



33
assistance to promote financial intermediaries, including support for institution building, start-
up costs such as promotion and necessary regulatory and supervisory changes.
117.  This component will be guided by the Financial Sector Oversight Committee in the
Office of the Presidency and would be coordinated on a day-to-day basis by an advisor to be
appointed at MOF for two years. The Bank's Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest would
also participate in this component by providing technical support for the diagnostic review and
the follow-on pilot program.
118.  Privatization Trust (PT). The creation of a PT is another instrument to foster the
public placement of the shares of public enterprises to be privatized under the accelerated
divestiture program. A detailed description of the PT is given in Attachment 2. Under the PT
scheme, the government would place blocks of minority shares of the public enterprises being
divested with a trust which would be managed by a private portfolio manager. The shares
would be held in the trust for a period not exceeding three years and would then be sold to:
(a) the personnel of the public enterprise being privatized; (b) the Ghanaian public; and
(c) institutional investors. Once the privatization program is completed and all the shares held
in the PT are sold, the trust would be liquidated.
119.  The management of the PT portfolio by the Management Company would be controlled
and supervised by a Board of Trustees, which may be composed of five members as follows:
(a) one high level representative from MOF; (b) one high level representative from DIC;
(c) two chief executive officers of private sector enterprises; and (d) an independent financial
expert. Once appropriate approvals are received, a financial expert and a lawyer would be
retained to work closely with the Implementation Agency, MOF, to help set up the Trust and
draft the legal documentation for establishing the Trust. The cost of this component is
US$0.45 million, including US$0.15 million in total for the financial expert and the lawyer and
US$0.3 million as a provision for the payment of the management fees during the initial set-up
period before the proceeds from the first sales of shares are received by the PT. This
component would be implemented in close coordination with the DIC.



34
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION
120.  Though the project has eleven beneficiaries, the program design has been kept as
simple as possible. With very few exceptions, the program for each beneficiary is independent
from that of other beneficiaries. This structure of parallel but unrelated programs minimizes
complexity in the implementation of the project. Nevertheless, the role of the implementing
agency is critical in view of coordination required for the effective supervision of the large
number of beneficiaries.
A. Project Implementation.
121.  It has been agreed with GOG that MOF will be the implementing agency for this
project. For this purpose, a Project Coordinating and Implementation Team consisting of one
advisor with experience in private sector NBFI and one support staff has been established at
MOF under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Finance. Each beneficiary will appoint
one representative to PCT to assist in project administration and implementation. The project
would provide US$0.6 million to establish the PCT (including US$0.1 million as operating
costs for recurrent expenditures such as fuel cost, office supplies, vehicle and equipment
maintenance). The PCT will be chaired by the Deputy Minister of Finance. While each
beneficiary would have primary responsibility for the implementation of its own components,
the PCT would be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the
project, and for reporting to IDA as defined in the draft Project Implementation Manual to be
adopted by the time of credit effectiveness. The PCT would be the vehicle for coordination,
contact, follow-up and reporting between IDA and the beneficiaries.
122.  The PCT would require accounting and financial management services to oversee the
project's financial aspects which would be provided by an independent accounting firm, on a
part-time basis. All project accounts, the Special Accounts, the Statements of Expenditure and
the financial statements of the project beneficiaries would be audited at the end of each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, based on accounting data produced by the
independent accounting firm. While each beneficiary would have primary responsibility for
procurement related to its components, its representative to PCT would update Procurement
Schedules and provide reports on related activities to ensure compliance with IDA
requirements. The PCT would hire the services of a procurement and disbursement specialist
(familiar with Bank processes and guidelines) to assist the beneficiaries in the preparation and
evaluation of bid documents to ensure consistency with Bank guidelines. Agreement has- been
reached with the borrower on the standard processing time for procurement of goods and
consultants (see section C.3 for details on standard processing time for procurement of goods
and consultants).
123.  Semi-annual project implementation reviews would be conducted by IDA together with
each beneficiary to review the implementation of all components, including the status of



35
procurement and disbursement. Supervision reviews, including a joint IDA-GOG mid-term
review, would monitor the overall project execution, key project activities, project
implementation schedule, and supervision plans. They will also identify implementation issues
and develop solutions. Following project completion, scheduled for December 31, 1999, a
project implementation completion report would be prepared by IDA and GOG. Though MOF,
through PCT, would have the overall responsibility for coordination, it will utilize outside
resources for the execution of the project. Consultants, contractors and suppliers would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines, on the basis of proven experience in the financial
sector. In line with the Bank's Africa Regional guidelines, wherever possible, local consultants
will be used. Where foreign consultants are used for lack of requisite local skills, special
attention will be given to promote transfer of skills to the domestic industry using local
counterpart teams. Consultant and advisor contracts would include provisions for training and
transfer of skills (e.g., through shared management) to local counterparts to carry on with the
program independently. Each beneficiary would therefore appoint counterparts who would
work closely with the advisor and would also make adequate preparations before the arrival of
the advisor in order to ensure the effective utilization of his services.
124.  Beneficiaries' contribution to Supervision. The PCT is responsible for overall
project implementation in matters relating to financial control, implementation, procurement,
and maintenance of records on transactions on all the project components. They will be
required to submit or contribute to the following:
(a)   Semi-annual progress reports should cover utilization of the funds and status of
completion of the studies and implementation of recommendations made under
these studies. The information contained in these reports will be used to
formulate specific TOR for each supervision mission.
(b)   Project review meeting with the participation of the various project agencies to
be held during the semi-annual supervision missions each year. The heads of
beneficiaries assisted by the representative on PCT would be responsible for
coordinating information and supervision pertaining to the implementation of
their component. Mission briefing on arrival and wrap-up meetings will be
attended by the implementing agency managers.
(c)   Audited reports on the special accounts, statements of expenditures, project
accounts and financial statements to be submitted within six months after the
end of each fiscal year by the Government.
125.  Mid-term review. It will be an important dimension of the mid-term review to assess
the overall success of the various components, not simply by using accounting standards but
more by evaluating and surveying the beneficiaries of the programs. The mid-term review will
review the following:
(a)   the adequacy of institutional arrangements and implementation of the various
components of the project;



36
(b)   progress with implementing all components of the project including training
programs; progress will be viewed in relation to established monitoring
indicators; and
(c)   procurement status for all project components.
126.  Specifically, the mid-tern review will also review and assess the following:
(a)   implementation of clearing and settlement system at GSE;
(b)   diagnostic review of financial services for informal and rural sectors
component;
(c)   payment systems study for BOG;
(d)   restructuring and divestiture of SIC by 1998; and
(e)   strengthening and divestiture of GRO by 1998.
At least 45 days prior to the mid-term review, the Government should transmit to IDA a report
describing the status of the items listed above.
127.  Supervision Missions. Two supervision missions per year will take place with the first
mission within three months of Board Presentation to review pre-effectiveness and project
launch; conditions of effectiveness; annual work program for the first year of project review;
and review of procurement documents.
B. Onlending Terms of financing for the beneficiaries.
128.  The proceeds of this NBFI Credit would be extended by the borrower (GOG) to the non
revenue generating beneficiaries in the form of grants and in the form of loans to revenue
generating entities such as SIC, GRO and HFC, only for the components dealing with
hardware, software and equipment. However, each beneficiary would finance five percent of
the cost of each component as the beneficiary's share of the project cost.
129.  Onlending to beneficiaries by GOG would be in cedis based on a variable "reference
interest rate" (RIR), based on a market determined average cost of 180-day deposits mobilized
by three banks (to be agreed at the time of drawing up the on-lending agreements), reflecting
the cost of domestic funds to the banking sector. The RIR would be adjusted twice a year, each
January 1 and July 1, to establish the interest rate applicable for the next interest period.
Repayment of principal by beneficiaries due on each January I and July I would be on the
basis of amortization schedule established on the date of the drawdown of the loan. Loan
maturities for beneficiaries will not be greater than ten years with up to three years of grace.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government for a fee implicit in the
difference between the nominal cost of the IDA Credit and the interest paid to it by the
beneficiaries.



37
C. Project Costs and Financing Plan.
130.  The estimated project cost is US$24.9 million equivalent, of which approximately
US$3.125 million is for GSE, US$1.25 million for SRC, US$0.925 million for BOG's NBFI
Department, US$1.275 million for NIC, US$2.625 million for SIC, US$1.05 million for GRO,
US$1.25 million for SSNIT, US$1.0 million for HFC, US$1.255 for School of Administration,
Insurance Industry Training Center and ICAG, US$4.05 million for Payment Systems,
US$4.85 million for MOF (of which, US$3.75 million for provision of financial services to
informal and rural sectors component, US$0.45 million for PT, US$0.6 million for PCT and
US$50,000 for MDPI ), and US$2.245 million for unallocated and contingencies. Out of
US$24.9 million, IDA is expected to provide US$23.9 million and the remaining US$1 million
will come from the beneficiaries (US$0.5 million) and GOG (US$0.5 million).
D. Procurement.
131.  Two types of procurement would be undertaken through the Credit: (a) consultant
services for 9 beneficiaries; and (b) goods, primarily computer software and hardware and
communications and office equipment for 11 beneficiaries.
132.  Selection and appointment of consultants for studies, technical assistance, and support
of project execution would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" (August
1981), on the basis of proven experience in the financial sector.
133.  Training within the country and abroad including twinning arrangements would be
carried out on the basis of IDA approved programs which would identify the nature of training,
personnel to be trained, the duration of training, institutions where training would be
conducted, estimated cost of training, etc. Such programs would be submitted to IDA every six
months for review and clearance.
134.  Procurement of goods would follow the Bank Guidelines for Procurement (January
1995 edition). The Project Implementation Manual provides a detailed procurement schedule
for goods. To the extent possible and practicable, the procurement of goods would be done by
grouping the various items in bid packages estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more.
Packages in this category would be required to follow International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
would be undertaken for goods estimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than
US$ 100,000 each aggregating not more than US$2.165 million using a standard bidding
document for goods satisfactory to the IDA. IDA review of the first draft of bid documents for
NCB is expected to become the standard for future contracts. Goods which cannot be grouped
in packages valued at US$50,000 or more, national/international shopping procedures would be
followed aggregating not more than US$875,000.
135.  IDA review of procurement procedures would be as follows: (a) for consulting
services, IDA would conduct prior review for all contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent
for individuals and US$100,000 equivalent for firms; (b) for procurement of goods IDA would



38
review ex ante contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and the first two NCBs; and
(c) all other procurement documentation is subject to expost review. This review process
would result in a prior review of approximately 70 percent of all IDA financed contracts for
goods. At negotiations, standard processing time for key procurement activities was discussed
with the borrower and is to be finalized before Board Presentation.
136.  For procurement monitoring and reporting requirements, each beneficiary would
nominate a representative to the PCT at MOF. Each beneficiary would have the primary
responsibility for the procurement and reporting requirements associated with its components.
On behalf of the beneficiary, this representative on PCT would be responsible for updating
Procurement Schedules, and preparing reports on related activities to ensure compliance with
IDA requirements.
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) a
Procurement Method    Total
Project Element                         ICB        NCB    Other        Costsb
1.  Goods
1.i Computers and office equipment    7.88    2.22      1.02       11.12
(7.58)     (2.17)    (0.87)     (10.62)
2.  Consultancies
2.1 Technical Assistance:
Advisory Services and Studies                           8.61        8.61
(8.18)     (8.18)
2.2 Training                                            5.07        5.07
(5.00)     (5.00)
3.  Operating costs                                          0.1        0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
TOTAL                              7.88       2.22      14.80      24.90
(7.58)     (217)   (1J5)        (23.90)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA Credit.
b Cost figures are net of taxes and duties, and include price contingencies.



39
E. Disbursements.
137.  The Project would be disbursed over a period of four years, from the effectiveness of
the project, (tentatively July 1, 1996 to June 30, 2000). This is consistent with the standard
disbursement profile for TA projects in Ghana. Disbursements are expected to occur as
planned because the implementing agency, MOF, will closely monitor project progress through
the PCT. A disbursement schedule appears in Table 5.
Table 5: Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement
Amount                Expenditures to be financed
Category              (US$ million)
1. Equipment for:
a. Revenue generating           2.30             100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
beneficiaries                                 of local expenditures
b. Non-revenue                  6.33             100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
generating                                    of local expenditures
beneficiaries
2. Consulting Services,         8.33             100 percent of all expenditures
training and studies
for all beneficiaries
3. Ministry of Finance
a. Equipment and                1.00             100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
vehicles                                      of local expenditures
b. Consulting Services,         3.75             100 percent of all expenditures
training and studies
c. Operating costs              0.10             65 percent of all expenditures
3. Unallocated                  2.09
TOTAL                          2390
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY         1996      1997      1998      1999
-------------------(US$ million)----------------
Annual         5.30     10.53      6.36       1.71
Cumulative     5.30     15.83     22.19     23.90



40
138.  To facilitate project implementation a Special Account (SA) will be opened in US
dollars at a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will amount to
US$400,000 to cover four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness of the Project,
an amount of US$200,000, representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation, will be
deposited in the SA. The remaining balance will be made available when the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments reached the equivalent of US$5 million. The SA would be used for payments
below 20 percent of the authorized allocation.
139.  The SA will be replenished monthly. All replenishment applications are fully
documented except for contracts for: (a) equipment and consulting services (firms) amounting
to less than US$ 100,000; and (b) consulting services (individuals) amounting to less than
US$50,000 equivalent which may be claimed on the basis of SOE. Expenditures for training
and studies would be disbursed on the approved programs by IDA.
F. Accounts and Audits.
140.  All project accounts, the SA, the Statement of Expenditure and the financial statements
of the project beneficiaries will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, based on accounting data produced by an outside accounting
firm. Copies of the audit reports will be forwarded to the Bank within six months of the end of
each reporting period. The PCT will ensure that the outside firm provides the audits before the
June 30th deadline. Separate auditors opinion would also be required for project accounts,
SOE and the SA.
141.  The PCT at MOF will be responsible for maintaining project accounts and a project
information system satisfactory to the Bank, which would provide annual accounts as well as
quarterly updates on disbursements categories and commitments. In order to achieve this,
MOF would contract out the project accounting to a private firm. In addition, the PCT will
monitor the Credit and its impact, and will prepare a semi-annual report providing information
on activities and participation in each of the project areas including capital markets, contractual
savings industry, associated financial institutions and capacity building.
142.  To enable the Bank to monitor the progress of project implementation, and to ensure
conformity to project objectives, the beneficiaries will furnish the Bank and the PCT at MOF
with semi-annual reports detailing progress of their respective components. These reports
should continuously evaluate actual implementation progress and actual disbursement against
planned targets, analyze the reasons for any variances, and alert the PCT and the Bank about
any changes anticipated in reaching planned targets. In addition, these beneficiaries will
prepare a Project Completion Report for the entire project six months after the completion of
disbursements, covering all related activities during project implementation and describing the
Project's costs and benefits. Formats and schedules regarding procurement, disbursement, and
auditing and accounting arrangements have been discussed and agreed during negotiations.



41
G. Terms and Conditions.
143.  Prior to credit effectiveness, the following will take place: (a) employment of an
independent accounting firm and an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank;
(b) employment of a technical advisor within the Project Coordination and Implementation
Team; (c) adoption of Implementation Manual by the borrower; and (d) subsidiary loan
agreements to be signed between GOG and the three revenue earning beneficiaries (SIC, GRO
and HFC) and subsidiary grant agreements with at least three beneficiaries.



42
Attachment 1: Ghana Payment System - Features and Issues
Crippling Cash Dominance
Table I: (Cedi Bn.)
1990        1991        1992        1993         1994
Currency       80.04        90.03      183.48      222.20      368.80
M2           283.24      325.78      519.34       661.57      967.36
GDP         2031.70     2574.80      3008.80     3949.00     5186.00
C/M2        28 percent   28 percent   35 percent   34 percent   38 percent
M2/GDP      14 percent   13 percent   17 percent   17 percent   19 percent
Average      32 percent   28 percent   13 percent   18 percent   24 percent
Inflation
Source: Bank of Ghana
144.  The table above shows that the currency intensity of the economy (C/M2) recorded a
steady rise, instead of decline, from 28 percent to 38 percent over the past 5 years. In newly
industrialized economies like Malaysia and Thailand the ratio of currency to money supply has
settled below 10 percent. In Ghana, not only is the ratio high but the rate of growth of
currency in circulation is explosive--4 times in the past 4 years.
Impact.
145.  The large volumes of currency with the non-bank public blunts the capabilities of the
instruments of monetary control. While BOG has been trying to contain inflationary pressures
by mopping up liquidity through Open Market Operations and hiking up the Bank Rate, M2
continues to grow due to increase in currency in circulation.
146.  The economy pays a high cost in terms of printing, distribution, and security measures
for currency. The Cedi 1 000 and 5000 notes were issued in the past year. Prior to that, printing
of huge volumes of small denomination notes meant large outgoes of foreign exchange, and it
still does. The more BOG spends on printing currency, the greater the loss in seigniorage.
147.  The overwhelming dominance of cash in the economy is seriously constraining
government's ability to widen the tax base, improve revenue collection, and hence bridge the
budgetary deficit through efficiency measures on the resources side. When most payments in
an economy are in cash, it is extremely difficult to estimate incomes and revenues and to trace
completed transactions.



43
148.  Financial deepening in the economy has been slow precisely due to the large amounts
of cash holdings of the public. The Ghana Financial Sector Report estimated that absorption of
33 percent of non-financial savings into the financial system could lead to a 100 percent
increase in the growth rate of financial savings.
149.  The use of cash is risky and inconvenient for end-users. The storage and transit of large
amounts of cash exposes the normal public to continuous hazards, and bag-snatching incidents
are reported frequently. Moreover, soiled and mutilated notes often become unusable or non-
exchangeable, thereby inflicting capital losses on small holders.
Causes.
150.  Historical and evolutionary factors are often cited as being the cause of cash dominance
in the Ghanaian economy, especially the fact that confidence has not been fully restored since
the early 1 980s when the confidentiality of bank accounts was violated. However, confidence
would have been quickly restored if the causes mentioned below had been addressed.
151.  The currency in circulation records a significant jump in the 4th quarter of each year,
which coincides with the cocoa buying season. While the Cocoa Akuafo Check System
ensures a good record of disbursal of funds by the produce buying companies, it contains no
incentives for farmers to leave their funds in the banks. Last season farmers are reported to
have waited up to 3 weeks to cash their checks, and the situation at bank branches was riotous.
The banking system has not responded to the specific needs of the cocoa farmers inspite of
cocoa being the major produce of Ghana. In many places farmers still travel more than 25
miles to cash cocoa checks. And the chaotic situation prevailing at the time of encashment of
checks only enhances the cocoa farmers' mistrust and perception of high transaction costs in
dealing with banks.
152.  The lack of sufficient infrastructure and high transaction costs are one of the most
important reasons for large cash holdings among the public. Though on average the population
served per bank branch in Ghana is 40,000, the distribution of bank branches is relatively
skewed towards the urban centers. Moreover, the long waits at bank counters for small
transactions, and long distances to bank branches in upcountry centers, make cash holdings
more convenient and attractive.
153.  There is disbursal of government payments in cash. While some of the recurrent
expenditures such as payroll are reported to be credited to bank accounts, the report of the
Controller and Accountant General points out that several major Government disbursals
continue to be made directly from the bank.
154. Inflationary expectations and lack of real returns on savings in banks contribute to large
cash holdings. As a matter of fact inflationary expectations are reported to have led to an
increase in dollarization in the economy. On the other hand, finance companies like Pyram,
which offered unsustainable returns, have quickly attracted very large deposits, at the risk of
affecting the trust in the entire financial system.



44
Institutional Infrastructure.
155.  Ghana has 15 commercial banks with about 275 branches. There are about 125 rural
banks, which are single unit operations, with a very small base, essentially functioning as
community institutions. Of the 275 branches of commercial banks, half belong to the GCB,
and about 25 percent are located in the Greater Accra region. The efficiency and reach of
payments services today depends substantially on the efficiency of the GCB.
156.  GCB has just emerged from a major restructuring, and launched its first
computerization effort. Moreover, it is slated for early divestiture, which can be expected to
lead to some consolidation of its branch network. Since the next largest institutions--Social
Security Bank (SSB), Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), Stanchart and Barclays--have
branches ranging from 20 to 30 each, no one institution can be said to be in a position to
spatially cover the whole country as well as have the technological infrastructure to provide
swift and safe payment services across regions. This will necessarily have to be an inter-
institutional effort.
157.  There is no Post Office Savings Bank in Ghana, and the regionwise distribution of post
offices was not immediately available. However, in case the coverage of bank branches is
found deficient, the institution of postal giro as a supplementary measure can be considered
when an iii-depth study of the payment systems is taken up.
Table II: Average Check Clearance Per Day
Year        Volume        Value    Avg. value pe
(Cedi bn.)     check
(Cedi mn.)
1991         6613         24.25         3.66
1992         7570         42.25         5.58
1993         8653         65.25         7.54
1994         9882         93.33         9.46
Source: BOG Quarterly Bulletins
Checks, Clearance and Settlement.
158.  Table II shows that the daily volume of checks cleared in Ghana has risen at roughly 15
percent per annum, compared to about 50 percent annual rise in the case of value of checks.
This clearly indicates that check-writing has not increased in any appreciable measure among
the common people. On the other hand, the increase in the average value per check written
clearly demonstrates the predominance of institutional checks and the effect of inflation.
Unfortunately, checks have major drawbacks as instruments of large-value time-critical funds
transfers.
159.  The time taken for local checks to clear in Accra is presently D+3 (3 days in addition
to date of presentation), and anywhere between 2 to 3 weeks for outstation checks. This
applies to high as well as small value checks, thereby making the process substantially



45
inefficient. Especially in the case of money market and securities market operations, where
transactions can take place back to back, a 3 day clearance will result either in high credit and
replacement risks or inability to transact. In the case of intercity checks, the long times for
clearance may partly be responsible for government's efforts to route its disbursals through the
treasury branches in cash.
160.  The work relating to settlement is still manual at the Accra Clearing House, as well as
the 10 other centers where BOG manages the local clearinghouse. It is important that
settlement work be computerized as a first step, as later the clearinghouses can be linked by a
communications network to expedite clearance of intercity checks.
161.  As yet there is no standardization of the check instrument in Ghana. This makes the
existing instruments unfit for automated processing, as well as susceptible to fraud and
forgeries. It is understood that some efforts have been initiated to introduce MICR checks.
This should be done expeditiously in standardized format, and automated processing
introduced.
Risks and Legal Infrastructure.
162. In Ghana there is not, as yet, a comprehensive unified law governing payment, clearing
and settlement systems. The rule relating to bouncing of checks provides for a fine not
exceeding Cedi 500,000 or 12 months imprisonment or both. However, this rule does not seem
to have improved the confidence in checks due to the difficulty of enforcement through civil
procedure. In order to encourage the growth of non-cash modes of payment it is important that
legal enactment exist in two major areas: (a) an integrated law on negotiable instruments
defining the rights and obligations of payer, payee, collecting bank, paying bank,
correspondent bank, clearinghouse, central bank; deterrents for fraud and forgeries and their
simple enforcement; rapid dispute redressal mechanism; and, (b) Enactment on the
admissibility of electronically stored and transmitted information as evidence in law.
163.  The rules relating to clearing and settlement are contained in the Bankers Clearing
House Regulations and Rules. However, this document is substantially incomplete, especially
in relation to the issue of settlement risks. Settlement risk is the risk that a bank which has an
adverse clearing on any given day, has insufficient reserves to cover the net deficit and meet
cash reserve requirements, and is also unable to borrow from the market to cover the liquidity
gap. The only option then is to reverse that bank's entries. This can lead to the problem of
some other banks facing liquidity crises as they do not get credit on the checks presented on the
deficit bank. The only eventuality in which settlement risk is eliminated is when the central
bank provides temporary overdrafts to cover the net deficit of the member bank. However,
since this leads to uncontrolled expansion in money supply, it is the least preferred solution.
164.  The options available for minimizing settlement risk are those gleaned from various
methods adopted across the world: (a) only major banks with benchmark levels of net worth
and assets be admitted as members, and the rest seek a correspondent relationship with these
settlement banks; (b) based on periodic reviews of volumes presented for clearing, each
member bank be required to maintain collateral with the clearing house equivalent to a certain



46
ratio of average daily volumes; (c) settlement lags be reduced to the minimum level possible;
and (d) liquidity-pooling and loss-sharing arrangements be made among settlement banks (in
case membership is restricted) so that settlement failure is avoided by decoupling illiquidity
from insolvency problems.
Flow of Funds in the Government Sector.
165.  On the receipts side, payments improvements could leverage substantially greater
efficiencies in the collection of revenue. In the case of internal revenue the IRS offices in 43
districts and eight in Accra directly receive cash and checks and then deposit these with GCB
or Coop Bank, who transfer funds to BOG every third day. This implies avoidable cash and
check handling by IRS, inconvenience to taxpayers who have to withdraw funds from banks
and pay-in at IRS, and risk of dishonored checks. In the case of CEPS, the revenue is paid
directly into the bank (SSB) in most cases. However, due to its extensive operations, CEPS
finds it extremely difficult to consolidate accounts and collection data. It estimates a US$6
million computerization effort and use of a communications network to overcome these
problems.
166.  On the payments side while some of the recurring payments such as payroll are being
routed through the banks, substantial payments continue to be made by the 1 10 treasury offices
throughout the country. This not only entails avoidable cash handling by the treasury but
results in poor feedback on disbursals thereby seriously limiting cash-flow monitoring at the
budget office.
Financial Markets.
167.  Financial markets are being encouraged to grow in Ghana. However, if the transfer of
high value funds remains slow, it will act as a constraint on their operations and growth. For
example, when a discount house accepts a 90 day deposit from a corporate customer, the check
for the deposit takes 3 days to clear. Who is to bear the loss of income for 3 days? It is
important that a high-value funds transfer system be put in place to facilitate money market
transactions.
168. In the securities markets, government and BOG paper is still exchanged physically for
securities trades. This inefficient system will have to give way to immobilization followed
later by dematerialization of scrips, especially if the scrips are listed on the stock exchange as
proposed. It is understood from market participants that sometimes scrips are not even issued
by BOG, and the securities are sold and bought by market participants. It was precisely the
growth of this kind of market practices that led to the "securities scam" in India in 1992.



47
Technology & Communications.
169.  A quick survey of the use of technology in banks in Ghana revealed that almost all
banks use computers to some extent, though the foreign banks were the most extensive users.
For example, Social Security Bank has 45 computers installed at 18 of its 38 branches, and 191
of its 942 employees are computer literate. Barclays has 111 computers installed at 21 of its 28
branches and 193 of its 708 employees are familiar with computers. This, coupled with the
fairly extensive computerization plans of BOG, presents an encouraging picture of the
movement towards better technology use in banking in Ghana.
170.  While the computerization efforts in the banking sector in Ghana are encouraging, the
communication infrastructure is severely deficient. The present telecom network, especially
outside Accra, has very limited capacity. The Bank supported telecom project would increase
telecom lines by about 50,000 by the end of 1998. While it would mean a step forward, it
would neither be sufficient nor timely for the needs of the financial sector. If the data
communications needs of the financial, corporate and public sector are to be met, Ghana will
need a vertebrate data communications network which can be leveraged for the integration of
markets and efficiency in information processing throughout the country.
Organization and Human Resources.
171.  The relative progress in familiarity with computers among employees in the banking
sector in Ghana is encouraging. But the understanding of payment systems issues, especially
their importance in enhancing the efficiency of the financial sector and necessity of risk-
containment measures, is little understood even among decision-makers. Development
assistance in this area is necessary, as is the need for a body (committee or council) that can
address payment systems issues comprehensively. This council, consisting mainly of chief
executives of banks, BOG, SSNIT, other financial institutions, GSE, IRS, CEPS etc., would
address a far broader canvass of issues than the Clearing House Committee. It would have
ownership of technical, legal and operational reforms.
172. To successfully leverage technology for modernizing the payment systems in Ghana, a
well thought out program of training in payments and communication software will have to be
implemented for personnel in the banking and public financial sectors.



48
Attachment 2: Privatization Trust
Introduction.
173.  A PT is a financial instrument which has been found to be a useful tool to facilitate the
privatization of public enterprises. It is being used in the privatization program in Zambia and
is in the course of being implemented in the privatization program in Madagascar. The
experience with similar divestiture programs in Africa and elsewhere has shown that the sale of
controlling majorities in public enterprises to strategic investors should be implemented
expeditiously in order to preserve the viability of the enterprises concerned. On the other hand,
enough time should be allowed to: (a) avoid straining the limited absorption capacity of
emerging stock markets through too many new public placements reaching the market at the
same time; (b) permit the creation of new investment vehicles for collective savings such as
unit trusts and voluntary pension funds; and (c) address legal and operational issues relating to
the sale of minority shares to the personnel of the privatized enterprises.
Role of the PT.
174.  The PT would be run by a private portfolio manager and controlled by an autonomous
board of trustees ("the Board of Trustees") which the Government would utilize to
"warehouse" blocks of minority shares of the public enterprises being divested for a short
period not to exceed three years. The PT would be managed by a private portfolio
management company (the "Management Company") under a management contract (the
"Management Contract") signed with the Government. The minority shareholdings held in the
PT would be liquidated according to a liquidation plan to be part of the Management Contract
through sale to: (a) the Ghanaian public through a public offering on GSE; (b) institutional
investors such as unit trusts, pension funds, insurance companies through private placements;
and to (c) the personnel of the public enterprises being divested.
Benefits of using a PT.
175.  Using a PT in the privatization program would:
(a)   reconcile the need to keep the period during which a public enterprise is on the
divestiture list as short as possible while at the same time creating the conditions
of a broader participation in the privatization program by the public, the local
securities industry and the company personnel;
(b)   provide comfort to the purchasers of the controlling majority ("the Strategic
Investors") of the divested companies to the effect that the Government will not
use the minority shares to exercise its influence on the management of these
companies;



49
(c)   permit an increase in the number of companies listed on the GSE and in the
daily volume of transactions; and
(d)   gain time for the broadening of the local securities market, the launching of new
instruments of contractual saving, the development of local institutional
investors (unit trusts, insurance companies, pension funds) and for the
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework.
Management Company.
176. The Management Company would be a professional portfolio manager to be selected
by the Government for an initial period of two years on the basis of ICB. It would have the
responsibility of managing the PT in accordance with the Deed of Trust and with the
Management Contract.
177. The Management Company would be a Ghanaian company with its principal office in
Ghana and organized as a licensed bank or non-bank financial institution under Ghanaian law.
In the performance of its duties, the Management Company could be assisted at its own
expense by local or international financial experts (firm or individuals) whom it would have
retained prior to submitting to the public tender. The names, full identity and detailed
infornation on relevant competence, experience and references of such financial experts would
be provided in the offer.
Board of Trustees.
178.  The Board of Trustees represents the interest of the state as beneficial owner of the
shares in the PT portfolio. It would be responsible for:
(a)   supervising the management of the PT by the Management Company and
ensuring that such Management Company manages the PT portfolio in
accordance with the Management Contract and the Deed of Trust;
(b)   approving the annual sales plans;
(c)   ensuring that the sales prices of the shares to the Authorized Buyers have been
determined by the Management Company in accordance with the calculation
formula set forth in the Management Contract; and
(d)   approving the quarterly and annual financial accounts, management reports and
auditors' reports.
179. The Board of Trustees would be composed of five members appointed by the
Government as follows: (a) a representative from MOF; (b) a representative from DIC; (c) two
chief executive officers of private sector enterprises; and (d) a financial expert recognized as an
authority in his field, either professor of finance or partner in a firm of auditors.



50
Management Contract.
180.  The Management Contract would be signed between the Government and the
Management Company for an initial period of two years. It would set out the responsibilities
of the Management Company, which include:
(a)   preparing annual sales plans to be submitted to the Board of Trustees for
approval. The annual sales plans would set forth the program of sales per
quarter, the shares to be sold, the estimated revenues from the sales and the
mode of divestment (public offering, private placement and sale to company
personnel);
(b)   selling the shares in accordance with the annual sales plan;
(c)   exercising the rights and responsibilities of shareholders at annual and
extraordinary shareholders' meetings;
(d)   exercising the rights and responsibilities of board members when the PT is
represented on the board of the companies in which it holds shares with the
objective of protecting and maximizing the value of the PT investment;
(e)   maximizing the sales price of the shares sold through private placement to
institutional investors;
(f)   calculating a sales price for the shares sold to the Ghanaian public and to
company personnel in accordance with the calculation formula set forth in the
Management Contract; and
(g)   holding the financial accounts of the PT and submitting quarterly and annual
financial accounts and management reports to the Board of Trustees.
Remuneration of the Management Company.
181.  The remuneration of the Management Company ("the Management Fee") would consist
of two parts: a fixed tranche and a variable tranche based on the capital gain achieved in the
sale of PT shares to institutional investors. The fixed part of the Management Fee would
consist of a monthly amount to be determined as a result of the international competitive
process. Although actual amounts will vary depending on the size of the portfolio to be
managed and the degree of competition among candidates at the time of the bidding, the fixed
part of the Management Fee might typically be equal to a range of between 1.5 percent and 3
percent of the value of the PT portfolio. The variable tranche would be equal to 15 percent to
20 percent of the capital gain on the sale of PT shares through private placements to
institutional investors.
182.  The Management Fee would be financed out of the sales proceeds of PT shares sold and
dividend payments from the PT portfolio. The fixed part of the Management Fee would be



51
guaranteed by the Government in case such sales proceeds and dividend payments would be
inadequate to cover the amounts due, which is a situation which might occur during the first
few months of existence of the PT, when the sale of shares from the PT portfolio has not
started yet. Back-up financing of the fixed part of the Management Fee up to a maximum
amount of US$300,000 would be provided to the MOF as a component of the proposed
assistance project.
Acquisition of the shares by the PT.
183.  The PT would receive in trust from the Government minority shares of public enterprise
being divested only at the time when a Strategic Investor has acquired the controlling majority
of the shares, in most cases at least 51 percent of the total number of shares issued and
outstanding. In no case would the PT be allowed under the Management Contract and the
Deed of Trust to receive shares in companies in which the controlling majority is still held by
the Government. Under no circumstances should the Management Company be put in the role
and legal position of exercising the responsibilities of a controlling shareholder.
Sale of the shares by the PT.
184.  The Management Contract would provide that the Management Company has the
obligation to sell any shares received by the PT no later than 3 years after the date of transfer to
the trust. However, if the conditions of the market are favorable for a sale, the sale could take
place before the end of a 3 year period, provided such sale has been included in the annual
sales plan approved by the Board of Trustees. On the basis of the accelerated divestiture
program being implemented over a period not exceeding three years, the PT should have a
maximum duration of 6 years. The PT would be liquidated after all the shares which it
acquired are sold, or at the end of the sixth anniversary of the creation of the trust at the latest.
185.  The Management Company would be obligated to sell the shares held in the PT
portfolio to the following categories of buyers ("the Authorized Buyers"):
(a)   the personnel of the company of which the shares are sold, up to an amount not
exceeding 15 percent of the total number of shares issued and outstanding;
(b)   the Ghanaian public through public placements; and
(c)   institutional investors regularly licensed under the Banking Law, the Securities
Industry Law or the Financial Institutions (Non-Banking) Law of 1993, through
private placements.
186.  Although the final percentage of allocation of the PT among the Authorized Buyers
might vary and should be determined in the laws and decrees governing the government
divestiture program, a typical allocation would be as follows: (a) 10 to 15 percent to the
company personnel; (b) 25 to 30 percent to the Ghanaian public, and (c) 10 to 15 percent to
institutional investors. This typical allocation is based on the assumption that the minority



52
shares held by the PT represent approximately 49 percent of the total outstanding shares of the
companies concerned. Actual allocation might be different if more or less than 51 percent of
the outstanding shares has been sold to the Strategic Investor.
Sale to company personnel.
187.  The sales price to the company personnel would be equal to the product of: (a) 80
percent of the sale price to the Strategic Investor; and (b) a coefficient reflecting the increase in
the cost of living index from the date of the sale to the Strategic Investor to the date of the sale
to the company personnel.
188.  Any employee who has worked for at least 12 months in the enterprise would be
eligible for the purchase of company shares. The maximum number of shares which could be
purchased by any single employee should be such that the total purchase price of these shares
does not exceed 20 percent of his annual gross salary. The employee would have the
possibility to purchase the shares on credit, without interest, over a 24 month period. Payment
of the price would be made in 24 equal monthly installments to be withheld on his salary at the
end of each month. Delivery of the shares would take place only after full payment of the sales
price.
Sale of shares to the Ghanaian public.
189.  All Ghanaian citizens would be eligible to purchase a fixed number of shares (a typical
number would be 10 shares) on a cash basis at a price equal to the product of: (a) 80 percent of
the sale price to the Strategic Investor; (b) a coefficient reflecting the increase in the cost of
living index from the date of the sale to the Strategic Investor to the date of the public
placement; and (c) a coefficient reflecting any increase in the value of the shares over and
above the increase in the cost of living index as determined by an update to be performed by
independent auditors of the valuation report initially made for the sale to the Strategic Investor.
Financial control of the PT.
190.  The Management Company would be obligated to produce and submit the following
reports to the Board of Trustees for approval:
(a)   annual sales plan, including the program of sales per quarter, the shares to be
sold, the price at which such shares would be sold, the estimated proceeds from
the sale and the categories of Authorized Buyers to which the sales would be
made;
(b)   quarterly financial accounts of the PT including detailed information on the
shares acquired and sold by the PT, the funds received as proceeds from sales
and dividend payment and paid to the Treasury and on the shares held in the PT
portfolio at the beginning and at the end of the period;



53
(c)   annual financial accounts of the PT providing the same information as the
quarterly accounts but on an annual basis; and
(d)   quarterly and annual management reports of activities providing comments on
the transactions completed and the major events which have affected the value
of the PT portfolio during the period.
191.  As attachment to the quarterly and annual management reports, the Management
Company would submit to the Board of Trustees for review and approval quarterly and annual
auditors' reports on the quarterly and annual financial accounts of the PT and the Management
Company by independent auditors. Such independent auditors would be appointed by the
Board of Trustees.



54
SECTION C: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Section C. 1: Project Implementation Matrices
Section C.2: Cost Tables (by Beneficiary)
Section C.3: Standard Processing Time for Goods and Consultants



55
SECTION C.1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MATRICES
."I



Beneficiary: Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE)
Component             Sub-Component                             Main Tasks                            Outputs             Timing       Cost in USS
Institution Building   Clearing and settlement of  Selection of optimum option                    Detailed system blueprint   Month I to    1.425 million
securites                                                                                              Month 12      for both tasks
Procurement of equipment                        Operational system       Month 12 to
Month 27
Management Information        Procurement of computer and telecommunications  Operational system       Month I to    0.2 million
Systems                       equipment                                                                Month 15
equity placement              Identify public enterprises for public placement after   Report and      A total of 24   0.3 million
privatization; advise on equity placement; recommend  recommendations;   months
reform to strengthen GSE; review impediments to  training module on equity   between
development of equity market; provide input to  issue and trading; plan for   Month 3 to
training program; study and establish links with other  promotional and  Month 39
stock exchanges; assist in design and implementation   educational campaign                            a'
of promotional and educational campaign
Local Capacity      Strengthening of training     Review local training resources at GSE and in Accra;  Report and         Month I to    0.5 million for
Building            Program at GSE                and,                                            recommendations          Month 16 for  both tasks
both tasks
Propose revised training synopsis               New course synopsis
Market and Product   Distribution of securities   Educational campaign                            Action plan              Month 3 to    0.3 million
Development                                                                                       Launching of media       Month 39
campaign
Month I represents the effectiveness of the project.



Beneficiary: Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) (continued)
Component             Sub-Component                               Main Tasks                               Outputs               Timing       Cost in USS
Launching of training program and promotion campaign  Training program         Month 3 to    0.4 million
for financial institutions                          Progress reports           Month 39
TOTAL:
3.125 million
U,
_                                                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Beneficiary: Securities Regulatory Commission (SRC)
Component             Sub-Component                              Main Tasks                               Output              Timing        Cost in US$
Legislative and   Review and amend Securities    To review securities law and prepare regulations and  Amendments to law;     A total of 12    0.25 million
Regulatory        Law and Regulations           procedures                                         preparation of procedures   months        for both the
Reform            (Securities Lawyer) 2                                                            manual                     between        lawyer and
Months I and   resident
30 for both    advisor
Tasks
Organization      Creation of Commission        Propose organization                                Organization manual       Month I to     included above
Structuring       (Resident advisor)            Recommend specification for computer and                                      Month 30
communication equipment                            Specification book
Draft rules and regulations
Institution       Computer and communication    Procurement of equipment and systems               Operational system         Month 15 to    0.5 million
Building          equipment                                                                                                   Month 30
Local Capacity    Training of SRC staff         Resident advisor to advice the Commission and staff  Monthly reports          Month 12 to    0.5 million
Building                                        Training of staff and other market participants     Commission operational    Month 36
TOTAL:
1_.2_5 m_illion
2
Securities Lawyer will assist the resident advisor who has overall responsibility for legislative reform.



Beneficiary: Bank of Ghana NBFI Department
Component            Sub-Component                            Main Tasks                             Output              Timing       Cost in USS
Regulatory       Review and amend NBFI        Prepare regulations and procedures               Procedure manual          Month I to     0.45 million
Reform and       Regulations                                                                                             Month 30       for both
Strengthening                                                                                                                           consultant and
Regulatory                                                                                                                             resident
Capacity                                                     .                                                                          advisor
Organizational   Creation of NBFI Department   Propose organization                            Organization manual       Month I to    included above
Structuring                                                                                                              Month 16
Recommend specification for computer and        Specification book
communication equipment
Institution      Computer and communication   Procurement of equipment and systems in coordination   Operational system  Month 15 to    0.15 million
Building         equipment for NBFI           with BOG computerization plan;                                             Month 30 for
Department                                                                                             both tasks
Local Capacity   Training of NBFI Department   Resident advisor to advice the Department and staff    Monthly reports    Month 12 to    0.325 million
Building         staff                        TRainin  vo st andvothe reparticipandt            Department operational   Month 36       for both tasks
Training of staff and other market participants
Training for other BOG departments              Training plan
TOTAL:
0.925 million
3
Consultant hired for organization structure would work under the guidance of the resident advisor.



Beneficiary: National Insurance Commission (NIC)
Component
Sub-Component                                 Main Tasks                                  Outputs               Timing         Cost in USS
Legislative and     Revision of Insurance Law       Review existing insurance laws and prepare draft of new   Draft of new insurance   A total of six    0.2 million
Regulatory                                         insurance laws                                          laws                        months
Reforrn                                                                                                                                between
Revision of the set of          Review existing insurance regulations and              Draft of a set of regulations  Month I and
regulations for insurance       recommendations on effective regulations and           for the insurance industry    Month 19
industry                        supervision for the insurance industry
Organization       Organizational Study             Support to NIC in establishing the commission and      Blueprint for NIC           Month 3 to       0.375 million
Structuring                                         design and implementation of organizational structure  Organizational Structure    Month 21
and Operations
Institution        Computerization of NIC           Consultant to define needs for Hardware and Software,   Bidding documents and      A total four     0.5 million for
Building                                            training needs, and assist in bidding process          computer training plan      months of        the consultant
consultant's    and equipment   o
Procurement of Hardware and Software                   Operational MIS             time between
month I and
month 30
Local Capacity     Training of NIC staff            Resident advisor to define training program and provide   Training program         Month II to      0.2 million
Building                                            training on day-to-day basis to NIC staff on procedures                            Month 32
TOTAL:
.                                                                                                                                                        1.275  m illion_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1.272 7m illio n



Beneficiary: State Insurance Corporation (SIC)
Component            Sub-Component                             Main Tasks                              Output              Timing       Cost in US$
Organization      Strengthening the            Study of existing SIC organizational structure and  Strategy Report         A total of six   0.1 million
Restructuring     organizational structure of SIC   recommendations on restructuring and resource                          months
implementation plans                                                       between
month I to
month 14
Institution       Upgrading SIC computerization  Evaluation of Hardware and Software Needs, assist in    Specifications of Hardware  3 months of    50,000
Building          program                      preparing bidding documents and short list        and Software and         consultant
preparation of bidding   time between
documents                Month 3 and
month 18
Procurement and Installation of Hardware and Software  Operational MIS     Month 9 to     1.9 million
Month 18 (in
two phases)
Local Capacity    Training                     Overseas and local training program for SIC staff  Training Plan            Month II to    0.2 million for
Building                                                                                                                   Month 33       all tasks
Divestiture       Prepare SIC for privatization  A consulting group (lawyer, investment banker,  Bidding or Public Offering   Month 4 to  0.25 million
accountant) to prepare SIC for privatization and solicit   Document        Month 20
interested parties
Market and        Introduce new insurance      Evaluate existing products, prepare detailed      Report on marketing       Month I to     0.125 million
Product           products and marketing       recommendations for introduction of new products.  strategy for new insurance   Month 18
Development       strategy                                                                       products
TOTAL:
12.625 million



Beneficiary: Ghana Reinsurance Organization (GRO)
Component            Sub-component                              Activities                             Output              Timing       Cost in USS
Institution       Upgrading GRO                Consultant to evaluate Hardware and Software needs  Specifications and bidding   A total of six   0.325 million
Building          computerization program      and assist in bidding process; Procure and install  document;              months          for the
Hardware and Software                            Operational MIS           between        consultant and
Month I and    equipment
Month 18
Local Capacity    Training for GRO staff       Resident advisor to assist capacity building for GRO  Training plan        Month 3 to      Included in
Building                                       staff                                                                      Month 20       Market and
Product
Development
component
Divestiture       Preparing GRO for            A consulting group (lawyer, investment banker,    Bidding or Public Offering   Month 4 to  0.25 million   2
privatization                accountant) to prepare GRO for privatization and solicit  Document         Month 20
interested parties
Market and        Local and International      Local and international market and product        Implementation plan for    Month I to   0.475 million
Product           Reinsurance Products         development; Twinning Arrangements with Foreign   market and product       Month 18
Development                                    Companies; Training                               development strategies
TOTAL:
1.05million



Beneficiary: SSNIT
Component                Sub-Component                                   Main Tasks                                    Outputs                 Timing         Cost in US$
Local Capacity        Actuarial training for SSNIT      Upgrading actuarial skills for SSNIT staff through        Twinning Arrangements        A total of four   0.25 million
Building              staff                             twinning arrangements with Social Security Institutions                                staff members
abroad                                                                                 for six months
each between
months 3 and
Month 36
Investment Training              Local and foreign training for SSNIT's managerial staff   Local and Foreign training                     0.5 million
on social security and investment issues                 plans for staff               Month 3 to
Month 36
Market and            Social Security and Pension       A team of consultants to design an action plan for        Design of pension plan and   Month I to        0.5 million
Product               Scheme for Informal Sector        expanding coverage of social security and pension         strategy for                 Month 24
Development                                             schemes to workers in the informal sector                implementation
Total for
SSNIT:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _1_ _2 5 m illm ioio



Beneficiary: Home Finance Company
Component            Sub-Component                             Main Tasks                             Output               Timing      Cost in USS
Institution      Computerization of HFC        Procurement of Hardware and Software including   Request for Quotations and  Month I to   0.5 million for
Building                                      installation and training for HFC and First Tier Lenders  computer training plan  Month 20 for  both tasks
on a turn-key basis                                                        both tasks
Operational system for
Index Linked Loans
Local Capacity   Training in mortgage lending    Twinning Arrangements with other countries     Improved Performance      Month I to     0.5 million
Building                                                                                                                  Month 27
Market and       Interim Finance for Builders  Twinning Arrangement                              Improved Performance     Month I to     Cost Included
Product                                                                                                                   Month 27       in above
Development                                                                                                                              component
TOTAL: 1.0
million



Beneficiary: Ministry of Finance
Component                Sub-Component                                 Main Tasks                                  Output               Timing        Cost in USS
MOF
Financial Services for    Pilot Scheme                  Consultant to conduct a diagnostic study;              Implementation of pilot     Month 3 to    3.75 million
Rural and Informal                                      Prepare a pilot phase                                  scheme                      Month 30       for both study
Sectors                                                                                                                                                   and the pilot
Market and Product       PT                             Prepare bidding documents and management contract   Bidding documents              Month I to    0.45 million
Development                                             Back-up facility forpayment of management fee          Management contract         Month 15
Deed of trust
Back-up agreement
MDPI                     Comprehensive review of        Consultant to prepare a study                          Consultant report           Month 3 - 7    50,000
Institute's objectives
NBFI Implementation      Implementation and             Consultant to assist MOF in effective implementation    Reports at the end of each   Duration of    0.6 million
Secretariat              Monitoring of NBFI Project    and monitoring of NBFI project                          fiscal year                 the project    (including0.1_
million for
operating
costs)
MOF Total:
____ ____ ____ ____ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ___ _4_8 5 m illionlio



Beneficiaries: School of Administration, ICAG and Insurance Industry Training Center
Component              Sub-Component                           Main Tasks                             Output              Timing        Cost in
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                      _________         U sS
School of
Administration,
University of Ghana
Local Capacity        Education and Training in   Expand and improve executive development program    New Improved and      Month I to    0.6 million
Building              NBFI issues and Insurance at  at U of G                                      Extended Curricula       Month 30      for both
U of Ghana                                                                                                         tasks
Procurement of books and equipment for U of G   Functional library
ICAG
Local Capacity        Education and training at   Support to student training program              Well functional ICAG     Month 3 to    75,000
Building              ICAG                                                                                                  Month 30
Insurance Industry
Training Center
Local Capacity        Upgrading SIC Training      Consultant (lawyer) to draft implementation plan  Functional Industry     Month 3 to    0.58 million
Building              Center to insurance industry    Procurement of equipment and preparation of training  training facility  Month 27  for both tasks
training center             plans                                                                                 I
TOTAL: 1.255 million for all
three beneficiaries



Beneficiary: Bank of Ghana /National Payments Council
Component                 Sub-Component                               Main Tasks                              Outputs               Timing        Cost in US$
Market and                Payment Systems and postal    Identification of User Needs.                        Comprehensive reports    Month I to       $ 0.50 million
Product                   giro studies                   Analysis for optimum solutions for modernization of   with bidding documents   Month 20'
Development                                              payments infrastructure.                            for hardware and
software.
Legislative               Negotiable Instruments Act     Comparative study and best practices.               Draft Act                 Month I - 20    $ 0.2 million
Reform                                                                                                                                                 for both
Electronic Funds Transfer     Comparative study and local requirements.            Draft Law                Month 1 - 20    tasks
Law
Institution               Payment Systems Advisor        Advice and guidance on all major issues relating to  Knowledge-based          Month I - 30    $ 0.25 million
Building                                                 payment systems modemization.                       support
Real-time Gross Settlement    Installation of hardware and software at BOG.       On-line real time         Months I - 30   S 1.5 million    a%
System for high-value Funds                                                       settlement of high value
Transfer                                                                          funds transfer among
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ b an k s.
Computerization and           Installation of hardware at clearing houses.         Computerized settlement  Months I - 30   $ 1.35 million
Automation                    Installation of software for settlement of clearing  of interbank clearing and
of Clearing Houses.           positions.                                          intercity check clearing
Installation of reader -sorters at Accra.
Month 3 - 27              Executive Workshops &          Organization of training and interactive sessions.  Skill and knowledge                       $ 0.25 million
Operational Training          Organization of training and hands-on sessions.     enhancement
Operational skills
TOTAL: 4.05
._ _ _   _      _    __._               __                                                               _   _    _    _      _    _m million



68
SECTION C.2: COST TABLES (BY BENEFICIARY)



Cost Budget
NBFI Assistance Credit
(In thousands USS)
1996                  1997                  1998                1999                Total        Grand
Foreign     Local     Foreign     Local     Foreign   Local    Foreign     Local    Foreign      Local  Total
Computer Hardware/Sofltware          1175         50       4700         50        2060      165       100       25        8035       290        8325
Telecom/Other Equipment                55        305         70        680          60      280        50       150        235      1415        1650
Total Equipment Expenditure          1230        355       4770        730        2120      445       150       176       8270      1705        9975
Management Fees                                               0                     _                                        a         o           0
Long Term Advisors                   265         250        700        375         335      375         0      250        1300      1250        2550
Consultants                          1630        600       1255        695         450      450        50       175       3385      1920        5305
Total Consultancy Expenditure        1895        850       195f       1070         785      825        50      425        4685      3170        7855
Foreign Training                     450           0        950          0         575        0       175        0        2150         0        2150
Local Training                          0        595          0        910           0      755         0      315           0 C    2575        2575
Total Training Expenditure            450        595        950        910         575      755       175      315        2160      2575        4725
Operating Costs                                   25                    25                   26                 26                   100         100
Total                               3575        1825       7675       2735        3480     2050       376      940       16105      7550       22655
Unallocated and Contingencies         225        225        175        145         550      375       300      250        12Y0       995        2245
iGrand Total for NBFI Project        3800       2050,      7850        288        40301    2425       676      1160,     1638       365        20



70
Cost Budget
Ghana Stock Exchange
(in thousands USS)
1996               1997                1998                1999               Total         Grand
Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign    Local   Forei n    Local   Fori gn   Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                    ISO          0      850         0       285       140         0         0     1285       140      1425
OtherEquipment                                   5       55        20       105        10       105         0        50       35       315       350
Totl Equipment Expenditure                     155       55       870       105       295       245         0        S0      1320      455      1775
Management Fees                           0__ 0    0    0 0                             0    0   0                    0    00a    0
Long Term Advisor                                0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0a      0           0
Consultants                                    125       75       150        50        50         0         0         0      325       125       450
Total Consultancy Expenditure                  125       75       150        50        50         0         0         0      325       125       450
Twinnng Arrangements                             0        0         o       0           0         0 a       o         0        0         0
ForeignTraining                                 so        0        50         0        50         0         0so 10                               1s5
Local Training                                   0      175         0       250         0       250         0        7         0       750       750
Total Training Expenditure                      50      175        50       250        50       250         0        75       150      750       900
Grand Total for GSE                            330      305      1070       405       395       495         0       125     1795      1330      3125
Cost Budget
Security Regulatory Commission
(In thousands USS)
1996               1997                1998                1999               Total         Grano
Foreign   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local    Total
Computer Harriware/Software                   100                 400         0         0         0         0         0      500         0       500
telecomlOther Equipment                                                                                                       a0       0           0
Total Equlpment Expenditure                    100        0       400         0         0         0         0         0      500         0       500
Long-Term Advisors                                                150                 100                                    25          0 t     25
Consulants        =                             0         0        50         0        50         0        50         0      250         0       250
Total Consultancy Expenditure                 10C         0       200         0       150         0        So         0      500         0       500
Seminars Abroad                                 0         0       2001        0        50         O         0         0      250         0       250
Local Training                              _ 0           0         0         0_        0         0         0         0        0         0         0
Total Training Expenditure                      0         0       200         0        50         0         0         0      250         0       250
Total for SRC                                  200        0       800         0       200         0        50         0     1250         0      1250
Cost Budget
Bank of Ghana NBFI Department
(in thousands USS)
1996               1997                1998                1999               Total         Grand
Foreign   Local   Foregnm   Local   Foreign  Local    Forelgn    Local   Foreign    Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                     75         0        75         0         0         0         0         0       1SO        0       150
TeleconrvOher Equipment                          0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Total Equipment Expenditure                     75        0        75         0         0         0         0         0       150        0       150
Management Fees                                 0         0           o    o            0           o    o            0          o    o            0
Long Term Advisor                               25        0       125         0       100         0         0         0      250         0       250
IConsuttants                            |     200         0         0      0a           0         0      0            0      200        0        200
Total Consuttancy ExpendIture                 2251       0°       1251        01      1001        01       0o        0o      4501        a       450
|Foreign Training                       1      25         0        75         0        75_        0        25         0      2001       0        200
Local Trainr,ng                                  0       251        0        50                  25         0        25       o0       125       125
Total Trainring Expenditure                     25       25        75        50        75        2         25        25      200       125       325
Grand Total for NBFI DepLt                     325       25       275        5        175        25        25        251     800       125       925



71
Cost Budget
National Insurance Commission
(in thousands USS)
1996               1997                1998                1999               Total         Grand
Forelgn   Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign  Loc al    Foreign       Local   Foreign    Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                       0        0       400         0         0         0         0         0      400         0       400
Telecorn/Other Equipment                         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
Total Equipment Expenditure                      0        0       400         0         0         0         0         0      400         0       400
Long-Term Advisors                             75         0       150         0        75         0         0         0      300         0       300
Consultants                                   300        25         0        25         0        25         0         0      300        75       375
Total ConsultancY Expenditure                 375        25       t50        25        75        25         0         0      600        75       675
Foreign Training                                 0          0        75       0        75         0            0      0      150         0       150
Local Training                                   0        0         0        25         0        25          0        0        0        50 
Total Training Expenditure                       0        0        75        25        75        25          0        0      150        50       200
Grand Total for NIC                            375       25       625        50       iso        St                   0     1150       125      1275
Cost Budget
State Insurance Corporation
(In thousands USS)
1996               1997                1998                1999               Total         Grand
_  Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Forelgn  Local    Foreign      Local   Foreign   Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                    325        25       800        25       375        25       100        25     1600       100      1700
Telecom/Other Equipment                  _        0      50         0        50         0         0                   00        0      100       100
Total Equipment Expenditure                   325        75       800        75       375        25       100        25     1600       200      1800
Long-Term Advisors                             50         0        75         0         0        _0         0         0      125         0       125
Consultants                                    80        20       130        45       100        25 _       0         0      310        90       400
Total Consultancy Expenditure                 130        20       205        45       100        251        0         0      435        90       525
Seminars Abroad                                25         0        50         0        50         0        25         0      150         0       150
Local Training                                   0       35_        0        65         C        40         C        10        0       150       150
Total Training Expenditure                     25        35        50        65        50        40        25        10      150       150       300
Grand Total for SIC                           480       130      1055       185       525        90       125        35     2185       440      2626
Cost Budget
Ghana Re OrganIzation
(In thousands USS)
1996               1997             1998           |       1999               Total         Grand|
Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign  Local    Foreign       Local   Foreign   Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                     75         0       1751        0         0         0 _        |0       0      250          0      250
Telecom/Other Equipment                          0        0         0         0         0 °0 °0                       0        0         0         0
Total Equipment Expenditure                    75         o       175         0         0         0         °l0       0      250        l0    250
Long-Term Advisors                             50         0        75         0j        0         0          0        0      125         a 0     125
Consultants                                    75         0       150       100         0         0 °   _   0         0      225       100       325
Total Consultancy Expenditure                 125         0       225       100T o_     0                   °1 01            3501      100I      450
Foreign Training                        I      100|       01      1001        00        01       0°         0l       0°      2001        0       200
Local Training                                  0        75         0        75_        0         0         °l0       0        0       150       150
Total Training Expenditure              I     100|       751      100|       75s        ol        ol        ol        ol     2001      150       350
Grand Total for GRO                     j     3001       751      500j      175|        0j        0a I         0      ol     800j      250      1050



72
Cost Budgt
on thousands USS)
1996              1997                199S               1999               Total        Grand
Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Formign  Local    Foreign    Local   Forl,gn   Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                     0        0         0        0 t                 0                  0        0        0         0
Telecom/Othe Equipment                                                                                                    0        0         0
Total EqulpmentExpenditure                     0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0         0
Long-Term Advisors                             0        0        0         0         0         0        0         0        0        0         0
Consultants                                   50       50       i        1oo ho    100       100       0          0      250    250         500
Total Consultancy Expenditure                 so       50      t1        100       100       100 -   0            0      250      250       500
Foreign Training                             15         0       11O    -   0       IS0         0      125         0      550        0       550
Local Training                                 0 C    50          0       50         0        so        0        50        0      200       200
Total Training Expenditure                   125       50       150       50       150        50      125        50      550      200       750
Grand Total for SSNIT                        1 7      100       250      150       250       150      12!        5C      800      450      1250
Coat Budget
HFC
(in thouxands USS)
|__ __ ___ _   1S99       1"7                1998                1999              Total         Grand
Foreign   Local   Foreign    Local       ign  Local    Fore gn    Local   Foreign   Local    Total
Compuler Hardware/Software                   100        0       250        0         0         D                  0      350        0       350
Telecom/Other Equipment                        0       50         0      100                   0                           0      150       150
Total Equipment Expenditure                  100       50       250      100         0         0        0         0      350      150       500
Long-Term Advisors                            0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0        0         0
Consultants                                    0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0         0
Total Consultancy Expenditure                  0                           0         0         0        0         0        o0       0 
Twinn_ing Arrangements          |50ISO10                                           100                  0                300
Foreign Training                       |      251_                                  25                  0                100        0       100
.Local Training                                        25                 25                  25                 20                100      100
Total Tralning Expenditure                    75!      25      200        25       125        25                 25      400      100       500
Grand Total for HFC                    1     1751      75       410      125       125        25        0        25      750      250      1000
Cost Budget
MOP
(In thousands US)
_____-______  1SS5     1       1197                1938               1S99              Total         Grand
| Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign  Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign   Local    Total
Computer HardwarerSoftware                   250                150i        1       50s                    _ _           450        0       450
Telecom/Other Equipment                       50      100o        0      100        s0       100       50        50      200      350       550
Total Equipment Expenditure                  300      100       200      100       100       100       So        50      650      350      1000
Long-Term Advisora                            0       250        0       375                375                250|        0     1250      1250
Consultants                                  200      175       675      325       150       300        0       175     1025      975      2000
Total Consultancy Expenditure                200      425       675      700       150       675        0       425     1025     2225      3250
Operating costs                        j               251         i      251                 25                 251              100j      100
Foreign Training                               0 ol        -           -         -        -         -         -            00 0
Local Training                         j        j     150                150                 150                 so        0      500       500
Total Training Expenditure                    0o    150           01     150         0       150        0         o 50l    0      500       500
Grand Total for MOF                    I     S00      7001      S751     975       250       050       50       550     1675     3175      4850



73
Cost Budget
Univerity of GhanaICAO
(in thousands US$)
_______________1991996  1997         11Si                1SS               Total         Grand
Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local  Foreign  Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign   Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software                   100       25       100       25                                             200       50       250
Teiecom/Other Equipment                                25                 S0                  50                 25        0       15C      150
Total Equipment Expanditure                  100       so       100       75         0        S0        0        25      200      200       400
Long-Term Advisors                                                                                                       0         0          0
Consu0tants                                                                                                                a        0         0
Total Consultancy Expenditure                  0        0         0        0         03                  0        0        0        0 cc0
Foreign Training                              50                 50=  S      ;=  1                                        o         CD_ 1_ao
Local Training                                         40 10                                  S0                 3                 175      175
Total Training Expenditum 50                          40        S0       S0         0        50        0        35      100       175      275
Grand Total for University of Ghana/ICAG     1S0      S9        ISO      125         0       100        0        60      300      375       875
Coat Budget
Insurance Industry Training Canter
(In thousands US$)
1996              1997                19S8               1999               Total        Grand
Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Forelgn  Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign   Local    Total
Computer Hardware/Software             r0                                                                                           0         0
Telecom/Other Equipment                 _______        25                275                  25                 25        0       350      350
Total Equipment Expenditure                    0       25         0      275         0        25        0        25        0      350       350
Long-Term Advisors                                                                                                         0        0         0
Consultants                                            55                 so                                               0      105       105
Total Consultancy Expenditure                  0       51         0       so         0         0        0         0        0      105       105
Foreign Training   0                                                                                                               0         0
Local Training                                         20                 45                  40                 20        0      125       125
Total Training Expenditure                     0        0                 45         0        40        0        20        0       125      125
Grand Total Insurance Industry Expendit.       0      100         0      370         0        65        0        45        0      580       580
Coat Budget
Payment Systems
(in thousands USS)
1996              1517                1198               1S99               Total        Grand
Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   ForeIgn  Local    Foreign    Local   Foreign   Local    Total -
Computer Hardware/Software                     0        0      1500        0      1350         0                  0     22850       0      2850
Telecom/Other Equipment                    -                                     -0                                               0           0
Total Equipment Expenditure                    0        0      150o        0      1350         0        0         0     2850        0      2850
Long-Term Advisors                            65        0       125        0        60         0                         250        0       250
Consultants                                  500      200         0        0         0         0                         50       200       700
Total Consultancy Expenditum                 585      200       125-       0        60         0        0         0      750      2001      950
Foreign Training                               0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0l        0l
Local Training                                 0              -          125                 100                 25 _      0      250       250
Total Training Expenditure                     0        0         0      125         0       100        0        25        0      250       250
Grand Total for Payments Systhms             565      200      1625      125      1410       100        O        2S     3600      4501    40S0



74
SECTION C.3:
STANDARD PROCESSING TIME FOR PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND CONSULTANTS



Standard Processing Time for Procurement of Consultants
-onlh 1      Month 2      Monh 3  L  Month 4          Month 5      Month 6       Month 7      Month a       Month 9
ID   Task Name                                 Duration                                                      Ion-t F-F  T]7IFFVI  I   I   1F             1_Fl-    FIVFr
1   Letter of Invitation Package (LOI Pkg.)         30d .
2        Short list                                  Sd
3        Terms of Reference                         10d
4        Criteria for selection                      Sd
5        Forwarding letter/supplementary info.       Sd
6        Draft of proposed contract                  Sd
7    Send LOI Pkg. to bank                           5d
S    BanKs no objection                             1td
9    Issue invitation                                5d
10   ConsuRtants prepare proposals                  45d
11   Evaluation process                             45d
12       Receive proposals (Technical and price)     Od        .                .                                                                                                 un
13       Open technical proposal                     Od
14       Evaluale technical proposal                20d
15       Send to Bank                                Sd
16       No objection by Bank                        1w
17       Open price prop. of quahfying consl.        .d
18       Combined scores determined                  Sd
19       Send final recommendation to Bank           Sd
20       Bank clears for negotiation with winner     Sd
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project:                                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Date: 1025195                        Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone <



76
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EE
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .
EE
DC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
FU
C-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
C
(U
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.a       EU 
(U  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C .
(U   0   (U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
.C ~
0    3   C C        C,(
0   4    CU   0 
JC  -o ~                                                                           0
(3                              0 in
E  r              m~~~                                                                          .
. e                          In
0I'11i..                           C I-
m           N        N N 
~~~ 1 1        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



77
C4
E _ ...   .  ....... .. ..........  ....  ............ . ...  .  . .. .
E       .  E ._......  .... ... ......... .................. . . ...   . . . 
EXE_..............    .................  ..    ...    ........   1 ..   ... ......    .
LO) E  .      .   .. .   . ............ .........  .  .                                                                                     CL
0)8                    D    En    E                                                                                                    m     D
_1, U                                  - ,                  i '                                                                       ,,
Lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
4)              U)>.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C~~~~~~~ 
4)                                                                                               0~~.   E r
oS    2                                                                                                                                    o, 
ra  C  .  0  w  -,3         c-                                                                    Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) 
m~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.1
o                                                     o    -
U,      co         cE 3 C                ) i



78
0
..   . .   .   ...   ..   ..   ....   . ...   ....   .......   . .     ... ..   ... .. . .. .. . .. .
0                                                                     0
- - ---  -     ----  --     -Fw------    --                                                                      , a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
E' cxE_[>>| 
co
m
.......c.................:............................. . ..  .
O 8 n E; 8r B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ,    S 
0CO
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E    z   ,_                       _
01-6
CD~~~
0.2  (L~~~~~~
>i         C .   >   w     
-1 m  0 m   X                                                                            LO
_L   r cd  co  C1  CD In   co                                                                                  .~.
__ E_______
11 ________e_______se____o_.__                                                                   2



Standard Processing Time for Procurement of Goods
Local Shopping Procedures
Ih 1                  Month 2 Mnh3 Mnh4         Month 5            Month6 Month        Month 8      Mot:Mnh 10    Month 11
ID    Task Name                    Duration 
1    Prepare and issue invitation       lod   '.
2    Receipt of bids                     1
3    Evaluate bids                       S
4    Award Contract                      5
S    Delivery                            1
Task                                     Summary                                   Rolled Up Progress
Project.                                 rgesRle   pTs
Date- 10/25/95PrgesRldUpTs
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone  '






IBRD 23606
BURKINA FASO                                               KuwL
pg.~~~~~O...
(                               '-"'    90 ~~~~~~BOGATANGA
N.   V                                                   Domooo&~~~~~~~-bgd                                GHANA
, A             0K-g
0  C                                    ~~~~~PRIMARY ROADS
,-~~SoEooo          SECONDARY ROADS
TERTIARY ROADS
Dobouc                                 N-%               '0-'-' ~~~~~~~~~~~RALWAYS
4 0 0 5 4  Damo i    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E                           -                 C~~~..t...                  REGION HEADQUARTERS  E
(C p-                                                                                     B,oB--It
r                                                      ~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~The  hod,e,color,,
cbTE                                                                                                                                  dno,o,o    0    o
-       ther ,fo-ars-o  show
D'IVOIRE                          N                                                              K       od          B noh9                 this00   th  port sot
p                                                                    C           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World  Book  Group,
A  /                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~status, of any  t-rrtroy,
Also,..C 0
K  K5              -       D~~~~~ LCAl                                           7
K     A       0     c t~,                                                                                       (            .     0000              o - LBETEt
I DkNOAt~~~~~~~~~~~~Er
SLNYANs
=~~~~~P-g                                               oOuuu
KUMOASI                                                                                                     TOGO
k  ~ ~ ~       ~          ~          ~          2Y7\toos                                    (i)~~~~~~~~~~~~HO
B,b,
SAoo                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~KOFOR DUA
t  \  - - -'-~~~~~~~~~     sw-ow~D-
m-b                                    CAPE COAST                                                       2,-      0505,                                 DoE
Aoro  O                                                                            9w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SE RON C I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~G                                                   -os
As,,  ...ci
'N                                                                                 ,          auno~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA
J~~   D 10      95,-CEY'o 0                Lo
FEBRUARY 1995









.1-e A       i r1 N\:t         f        1-- -* "' 
r;y I-;e.       k i-
lai    I       M* T,u:T  - 1 1  'I        _       1 1



