Documentof
The World Bank
FOROFF ICIAL USEON LY
Report No: 25213
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27920)
ONA
CREDIT
INTH E AMOUNT OF SDR1 6.OMIL LION (US$ 23.9 MILLIONEQ UIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OFGHANA
FOR A
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONSASS ISTANCEPRO JECT
DECEMBER 15, 2002
Financial SectorD ivision
AfricaR egion
This docunenth as a restricted distribution and mnayb e usedb y recipients onlyi nth e performance of their
officiald uties. I ts contents mayn ot otherwise bed isclosed withoutW orld Banka uthorization.



CURRENCYEQ UIVALENTS
(Exchange RateE ffective June 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Cedi
GHC80 50 = US$ 1:00
US$ 0.0001242 = GHC 1:00
FISCAL YEAR
Januaryl    December3 1
ABBREVIATIONS ANDA CRONYMS
ARB            Association of Rural Banks
BOG            Bank of Ghana
CAS            Country AssistanceStr ategy
CSD            Clearing,Sett lement & DepositorySy stem
FINSAC         FinancialSe ctor Adjustment Credit
GHAMFIN        Ghana Micro-Finance Institutions Network
GSE            Ghana Stock Exchange
GRC            Ghana Reinsurance Corporation
HFC            Home Finance Company Limited
ICAG           Instituteof Cha rteredA ccountants Ghana
IDA            Intemational Development Association
MDPI           Management Developmenta ndPr oductivityl nstitute
MIS            Management Information System
MOF            Ministryof Finance
MEI            Micro-Financel nstitution
NBFI           Non-Bank FinancialI nstitution
NIC            Nationall nsurance Commission
PT             PrivatizationT rust
PCT            Project Coordination Team
RTGS           Real Time Gross Settlement
SEC            Securities & ExchangeCo mmission
SIC            Statel nsurance Company
SOA            Schoolof Administration
SOE            StateO wned Enterprise
SSNIT          SocialSecurity&  Nationall nsuranceT rust
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    MatsKa rlsson
SectorMa nager/Director:   Gerard A. Byam
Task TeamLe ader/TaskMa nager:     Kofi Boateng Agyen



GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONSASSIST ANCEPR OJECT
CONTENTS
PageN o.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2 P rincipalPe rformance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessmentof Development Objectiveand Design,and of Quality atE ntry              2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               15
6. Sustainability                                                                   17
7. Banka ndBo rrower Performance                                                    18
8.Less ons Learned                                                                 20
9. Partner Comments                                                                21
10 Additional Information                                                          21
Annexl. Key Performance Indicators/LogFr ame Matnx                                 22
Annex 2. Project Costsa nd Financing                                                31
Annex3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 33
Annex 4. Bankl nputs                                                                34
Annex5. RatingsforAch ievement ofObjectives/OutputsofCo mponents                    36
Annex6. Ratings of Bank and BorrowerPer forrnance                                  37
Annex 7. L ist of Supporting Documents                                              38
Annex 8. Sum mary of GOG'scom pletion report                                        39






Project ID: P000943                                      Project Name NON-BANKIFI NINS AST
Team Leader. Kofi-BoatengAg yen                          TL Unit AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 23, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: NON-BANKFI NINS AST                           L/C/TFNumnber. IDA-27920
Country/Department: GHANA                                               Region* AfricaRe gionalOffi ce
Sector/subsector- General financesec tor (63%); Central government
administration (28%);Comp ulsory pensiona nd
unemployment insurance (6%); Tertiary education
(3%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actnal
PCD:   03/22/1995                             Effective: 05/26/1996        08/16/1996
Appraisal:  11/06/1995                               MTR. 07/31/1998            11/11/1998
Approval-  12/05/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Ghana/Ministry of Finance
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      CallistoE. Madavo                         Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     Mats Karlsson                             K. K.Fr amji
Sector Manager:      GerardA. Byam                             Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:  Kofi-BoatengAg yen                        AnilC handramani
ICR Primary Author:  Ravi J.Ru parel
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory,S= Satisfactory,U =Unsatisfactory,H L=Highly Likely,L =Likely, UN=Unlikely,H UN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory,H= High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance S
Borrower Perfornmance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Ghana Non-Bank Financial Institutions Project or "NBFI Project" (Credit No. 2792-GH) was approved by
the Board on December 5, 1995. It was designed to build on previous projects in the financial sector namely the
two Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (FINSAC 1, 1988 and FINSAC 11, 1991) and the Rural Finance Project
(1989). FINSAC I and 11 had supported the development of the banking structure by improving the regulatory
framework, building capacity at the central bank (Bank of Ghana), restructuring distressed banks, and divesting
public ownership in banks. The Rural Finance project had supported the financial restructunng of rural banks,
strengthening the Association of Rural Banks, and strengthening the Rural Finance Inspection Department (RFID)
at the Bank of Ghana. Despite the achievements of the earlier projects, much remained to be done in terms of
strengthening and implementing the regulatory framework to ensure that the regulations were applied rigorously
enough to secure the ongoing soundness and improving efficiency of the Financial Sector. Along with this came
key investments in financial infrastrure, most notably the envisioned improvements to the National Payments
System.
The NBFI Project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in May 1995.
The project was intended to directly support two of the five key elements of the Bank Group's strategy outlined in
the CAS: private sector development and capacity building. Each component of the project was targeted at
supporting greater pnvate participation in the development of the non-bank financial sector and in building local
capacityin the sector.
The design of theNBF IPro jectwaslarg ely influenced byth e Ghana Financial Sector Report (GH-I 3423 of
Decemberl994) whichhadcon cluded that:
*   Ghanahadno t achieved muchsuccess in themo bilization and allocation of domestic and foreignprivate
capital, whicha re key factorsi n stimulatingprivate sec tor-led growth;
*   One factor that had contributed significantly to the low formal savings and investment rates was poor financial
intermediation                    in                      the                      economy;
*   Effective financial intermediationwou ldr equire:(a ) the promotion of greater competitiona ndmo re
innovation int he sector( including divestiture and wellsup ervisedentr y and exit);( b)t he strengthening ofthe
financialandl egal infrastructure( including human resources and paymentsystems) ;a nd (c) the
integrationof t hef ormal financial and informal financialsec tors;
* While previous IDA operations had gone a long way in addressing problems in the banking sector, issues
related to the non-bank financial sector hadnotbeen addressed.
TheNB Flcre dith ad two objectives:
1. To promote the growth of an efficient, competitive, well regulated, non-bank financial sector and an efficient
payments systemin orderto:
a. Increase the mobilization of domestic savings inbo thf ormal and informalsectors;
b. Facilitate the flow of internationalc apital into Ghanat hroughbet ter financial intermediations;a nd
c. Supply financialse rvices competitively to the economy.
2. Tocr eate anenv ironment conducivetogreater privatesecto ractivi tyand supportthesu ccessful
implementation ofthe divestiture program for state-owned enterprises (SOE) and the three largest state-owned
commercial banks.
Given that different institutions in the non-bank financial sector were at different stages of development, specific
interventions were designed in each sub-sector. This approach was reflected in GOG's strategy for the development
of the non-bank financial sector which was detailed in a letter of sector strategy prepared by the MOF in October
1995. -
-2 -



For eachben eficiary, thepro ject was intended to support one ormo re of thefol lowingactiv ities:
a.     Legislative reforms
b.     Regulatory reforms andstr engthening of regulatory capacity
c.     Organization structuring andi nstitution building
d.     Building local capacity through training
e.     Marketa ndprodu ct development
f.     Divestitureof GOG shareholding
3.2 Revised Objective:
Thepro ject became effective on August 17, 1996af tera delayof 3 months.Theinit ial duration ofthecreditwas  4
years withanexp ected completiondate ofJu ne30 ,20 00.
Theprojectwentthrou gh two major changes between l9 96 and20 00:
* Duringth emi dter m review, in Novemberl 9 98,performan ce indicatorsf or most ofthecom ponentswere
more clearly defined, someco mponents were scaled back, ando nene w component was added.
* In the periodf rom March- July 2000,three componentsw ere cancelled andthe decision was taken to extend
thepro jectfo r another two years for some of theco mponents.
During both these times of change, componentob jectiveswere revised andou tcome indicators weresp ecifiedor
revised, in eachcase to better align projectactiv itiesto the primary development objective, tobet ter takeacco unto f
complementary activities in otherprojrec ts, most notably divestituturebeing carried out under PEPTA, and in
response to thec omplex polictical environment which mitigated against implementationof some ofthe original
activities
The second objective had been stated as: "To createan environmentco nducive to greaterpriv atesec toractiv ity
and support the successfulimplem entation of thediv estiture programf orstate-owned enterprises (SOE) andthe
three largest state-owned commercial banks."
Thediv estiture aspectof thisob jective becamer edundantear ly in the projectas the Government decidedtochan nel
its restructuring and divestitureef forts throughthe PEPTApr oject. The log framematri x developedduring the
mid term review workshop makes no mention of this objective andit does not appear that this objective was ever
seriously pursued. Itseem s thata decision wastake n to supportdiv estitureof SOEs andstateown ed commercial
banks with another Bankc redit - theP ublicE nterpnses and Privatization Technical Assistance (PEPTA) credit
which wasapp roved in 1996.
The firstob jectivehad been stated as: "To promote the growthofanef ficient, competitive,wellr egulated,
non-bank financialsector and an efficient payments system in orderto:
a. Increase the mobilization of domestic savings inbo thf ormal and informalsectors;
b. Facilitate the flow of internationalc apital into Ghanat hroughbet ter financial intermediations;a nd
c Supply financial services competitively toth e economy."
This objectivewasthepredo minanton e andf ormedthebas is of the logf ramematrix atthemid termr eview
workshop.Howev er, during the course of projectimp lementation, there was a continuouspro cessof re-aligning
priorities andproject activities to best supportth e achievement of this objective. The FSAP mission of July 2000
provided clearguid anceonf inancail sector priorities. Boththe Government and Bank teams used this input from
theFSAP to focusth e project towards progressin these key priority areasov erth e lasttwo years of thepro ject.
3 3 Original Components:
Initially the project had 14 components. Each componenthadsever alsub -componentswit h ther esult thatthe
technicalannex of the appraisal documents defined 45separate sub components.
Thel4 components were tobeimp lementedby 11 beneficiaries andth e MOF. Thel I beneficiariesincl udedth e
- 3-



Bank of Ghana (BOG), the National Insurance Commission (NIC), the Securities and ExchangeComm ission
(SEC), the Ghana StockE xchange (GSE),the Home Finance Company (HFC), theSocial Security and National
InsuranceT rust( SSNIT), theScho ol ofAdmin istration( SOA) at theUniversityof Ghana, the Instituteof
Chartered Accountantsof Ghana (ICAG), the Management Developmentand Productivityl nstitute (MDPI), the
Statel nsurance Company (SIC), and the Ghana Reinsurance Company( GRC).
The MOF was designatedthe implementing agency for the project. APr oject Coordinating and Implementation
Team (PCT)cons isting ofa n advisora ndon esup portstaf f wasestablish ed atM OFund erthe chairmanship ofthe
Deputy Minister of Finance. While each beneficiaryhad the primary responsibility for implementation of itsown
components, the PCTw asr esponsible for coordinating and monitoringthe implementation ofthe project.
The different componentsa ndt he proposed areasof technicala ssistance are indicated in Tablel.
Tablel: Original Project ComponentsandTechni calAssis tancearea s
Component             Legislative  Strengthening  Building  Building  Market  Divestiture
Reform     regulatory&  Institutional  local  and
supervisory  Capacity    capacity  Product
capacity                           Devt.
1    BOG - Payment Systems  X                     X            x
2    BOG- NBFI Supervision           X            X            X
3    NIC                   X         X            X            X
4    SEC                             X            X            X
5    GSE                                          X            X        X
6    Micro / Rural Finance                        X            X        x
7    HFC                                          X            X
8    SSNIT                                                     X        X
9    SOA                                                       X
10  ICAG                                                       X
11  MDPI                                                       X
12  SIC                                                                 X        X
13  GRC                                                                 X        X
14   Pnvatization Trust                                                          X
3.4 Revised Components:
As mentionede arlier, theprojec tw asr estructured during the mid term reviewi n 1998a nd before the extensionin
2000.
MidT erm Review:
At the time ofthe mid term reviewon ly$4 .6mill ion (I 8.6%)of the total $24.9millio nhadbeen disbursedor was
committed. During the mid-term review thebud getof themicro and rural finance componentwa s reduced from
$3.75 millionto$80 0,000. Furthermore, asper the GOG's request, $1.47 million was reallocated to BOG to
finance some of the activities which were originally scheduled tobe funded under thePnvate Enterprise and
Export Development Project (PEED) which was closed in March 1998. Wh ile these funds wereus edtosu pport
various departments in BOG,on ly the activitiesr elated tothe BankingSup ervision Department (BSD) were treated
as a separate component.
Project Extension:
The periodbet ween January - June 2000 was a crucialon e for thepro ject Thefoll owing events tookpl ace:
* Three nonper forming components - SIC, GRC, andthe PrivatizationT rust - were cancelled;
* Therewa s partial extensionof three components (GSE,M icro/RuralFinance and HFC) inorder tof acilitate
the orderly completionof ongoing activities and contract commitments;
-4 -



*   Thepro ject was refocusedwith an emphasiso nstreng theningr egulatorycapacity a nd improvingtheeff iciency
of thenat ional paymentssy stem. A decision wasma deto continue NBFIsu pportfortwo years (up to June
2002)forth e four regulatorycom ponents(BOG/ BSD, BOG/NBFI, SEC,an dNIC) and the paymentsy stems
component. Eachof the institutions wereasked to prepare impact-oriented businessplan s asa conditionof
extension;
*   There had beendelay s in the procurement of theauto mated clearing,settlemen t anddep ositorysys tem( CSD)
forth e GSE. A decision was made to also extendthi s component to allowf or furtherrevie w ofth isiss ue;
*   Atthetim e of projectexte nsion the Bank suggested to theon going beneficiaries of the project to includea
program of HIVW AlDsawar eness in theirwork programs;
*   The transitionto asmaller, extendedprog ram of activities reduced the need for ac ontracted project
management team. The MOFdecided to mainstream projectmanagemen twi thin theM OF at thee xpiration of
the Project Coordinator'sc ontractin August 2000.
FSAP Recommendations:
Anotherkey event in the project wastheFinan cial SectorAssess ment Program( FSAP)miss ion in July20 00.T he
FSAP waspart of a joint World Bank-IMF program of studies that aims at assessing vulnerabilities off inancial
systems, their developmentneeds, and implementationof r elevant financial standards
TheFSAPcov ereda numberof institutions/activities supportedby the NBFI project. And althoughthefinalFSAP
report wasno t issuedun til May 2001, recommendationsf romther eportwere discussed with the beneficiaries
dunng the March20 01 supervision mission. T he beneficianes for the four components affected( BOG/BSD,
BOG/NBFI, SEC, and NIC) were asked to commenton the FSAPrecom mendations and provide their proposed
actions toimplem ent ther ecommendations. Followupon ther ecommendationsthenbecame an integral part of
the remaining supervision missions.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality of Entryforth is project is assessed as unsatisfactory. There are three main reasons fort hisa ssessment
*   Inconsistency between project objectives andco mponents:As previously discussed the secondob Jective didno t
have anyc omponents relatedtoit. Furthermorethere were noperf ormanceind icatorsspecifiedfor the
sub-objectivesfo r thefirs t component.
*   ComplicatedDesig n: The large number of componentsmean t thattheprojectwas  unable to go asdeep as it
could have, or should have,i n providing support to the key components and institutions. Furthermore having
a design with a number ofsm all unrelated componentsmean t that there waslikely to bedifficultiesinproject
coordination andmonit onng.
*   Incomplete Design Team:T heprojec tdesign included a largemicr o andr ural finance componentwi th a
budget of $3.75 million. However none ofthe preparation or appraisal teams includedindiv iduals with
expertisei n this area. I n factthiscom ponentw asno t designed until thesecon dsup ervisionmiss ioninM ay
1997.
-5-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Assessment of outcomesan d achievement of objective issi ightly hindered by theweak nesses inth ede finition of
objectives asdis cussede arlier. Takingacc ount of the fact that thepriv atization agendawas handledby aseperate
project(PEP TA), the key focus ofth ep roject becme the other Develeopment Objective, i.e. "To promotethe
growth of an efficient,c ompetitive, well regulated, non-bankfinancial sector and an efficientpaym entssy stem."
Whenass essed against this objective, theo verall projecto utcomeis satisfactory.Thep rojecth asclearly
contributedto thestr engtheningof regulatory agencies for both thebankin g and non-banking financialsec tor. The
project has also contributed toimp roving the efficiencyof various institutions andhasprov ided the infrastructure
for an efficientpay ments system Mos tofth e components have metth eir relevant objectivesan dare expectedto
achieve satisfactoryd evelopmentres ults as discussed below.
It isalsoworthno ting thatdu ringthe last two years of theprojectthe Ghanaianecon omy wasr ecovering from a
majormac roeconomic shock (discussedmo re in section 5.1). Therefore thefact thatth e project wasab le to achieve
many key outcomes,pro vides further supportf or a satisfactory rating.
The keyou tcomes were achievedpart lyasa resultofthecan cellation of three components and the focusing of time,
energies,a ndf inancialr esources tothe other components. The fact thatthe Bank and the GOG were ableto
implementt his cancellation and restructuring andt her esulting achievement of outcomes( at a lower cost than
budgeted)f urthersup portsthe satisfactoryr ating.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Theratin gs ofou tcomes bycom ponentare summarized in Table 2 and discussed in detail below
1.BO C-Pay mentsSy stem
The objective of thisco mponent was theim provement of the financialin frastructure. The keyexp ectedben efits
werethe reductionof cash dominance inthee conomyand animpro vement inthe clearingtimesf orchecks. The
key outcomes of this component include:
*   TheRealT ime Gross Settlement System (RTGS)for High Value FundsT ransfer was launchedon Octoberl I,
2002. At the time of ICR preparation, the RTGS, knowna s the Ghanal nterbank System, (GIS) hadbeen
operatingf or 30 days without problems.
*   Computerized settlement of interbankc learing istakin gplace for the Accrar egion. BOG decided notto
undertake computerizationf or otherregio ns because of the low volume of transactions.
*   Major improvements weremad einthe cleanng times for payments. At theinceptio nof theprojectc learing
times were four days for local clearingand upto2 I daysfor outstation clearing. The originaltargets outcomes
were2day s forlo calpay mentsand 4day sforou tstation payments. Thesetarg etswere fou ndto be unrealistic
and were revised to 3 daysf or localpay ments ( within inner zones); 5 days within thesam eou ter zone and
betweeninn er zones; and8day sfor remotelo cations. Asu rvey of clearingtimes in Jan20 02,un dertakenby
BOG,sho wedthat 96%of paymentsc learedwithin thedefined standards.
*   There duction of cash dominanceintheecon omy wastobemeas ured by changesin Cash/M2. The target was
to reduce this ratio from 38%to 20%. During the project the Cash/M2 ratiof ell to 24% by September19 99 but
then went up to 36% by December 2000. Since then ithas been gradually fallingandr eached24 % in
September20 02.
Theov erallou tcomeof this component is rated satisfactory. Whilepro gress wasslo win theearly ye arsofth e
projectand was then adversely affectd by the 2000macro economic cnsis,thestatu s at closing was encouraging
- 6 -



The primary unfinished activity islegislativ er eform. At the timeof thel CR mission, the BillsandCheck s Bill
and the Payment Systems billhad beendrafted and reviewedand were expectedtobe put before parliament during
December 2002.The two bills, once approved, should addressmo stof the remainingcon cerns raised in the FSAP
report.
Table2: Revised ProjectCo mponents andRa ting
End Date         Rating before  Rating May   Rating
MTR            2000         Final
I    BOG - Payment Systems      June 2002        S              S            S
2    BOG- NBFI Supervision      June 2002        U              S            PS
3    BOG - Bank Supervision     June 2002        n/a            n/a          S
4    N1C                        June 2002        S              S            S
5    SEC                        June 2002        U              S            S
6    GSE                        June 2002        S_             S            S
7    HIV/AIDs awareness         June 2002        n/a           n/a           S
7    MicroandRura I Fmance      December 2000    U              S            S
8    HFC                        December 2000    S              S            S
9    SSNIT                      June 2000        S              U
10   SOA                        June 2000        S              S
11  ICAG                        June 2000        S              S
12   MDPI                       June 2000        S              n/a
13   SIC                        Cancelled        U              n/a
14   GRC                        Cancelled        U              n/a
15   Pnvatization Trust         Cancelled        n/a            n/a
2.Ba nk of Ghana - NBFISup ervision
The NBFI sector is made upof 10 categories of institutionssu pervised by BoG, some of which are regulated under
theFinancial Institutions( Non-Banking) Law of 1993.Cr editUnio nsa ndt he mortgage company,H omeFi nance
Company (HFC ) are regulatedby separate laws. Leasing companies aresu bjectto the Finance Lease Lawof 1993.
Onlysavin gs and loans institutions, building societies,andcr editunio ns are authorizedto takedepo sits fromthe
public.The other NBFIsseektheir funding from banksand other wholesale marketparties.T he NBFI sectoris
relatively small, with total assets of under5 percentof total commercial bank assets.
At the timeof projectapp raisal the BOG wasintheproces s of establishingtheNBFI supervisiondep artment to
regulate and supervisein stitutions coveredby thelaw. Key outcomes of this componentin clude:
* TheNBFI supervision departmentis fullyop erational with a staff of 51 anda functional MIS.
* BOG established two types of Business Rules for NBFIs:on e set for Deposit Takinglns titutions andano ther
for Non-DepositT akingl nstitutions.
*   The department hassho wn significantimprov ement in its supervision role. 29 operational NBFIs (100% ofa II
operational NBFIs) were subjectedtoon -siteins pection during 2001 and 9 were found to be in
non-compliance.Using the newbu siness rules, the Department began to levy penaltiesf or non-compliance.
The NBFldepartmen t hassho wna modestincrea seinenforce mentmeasures.Dunng 2001 a total of25f ines
were levied on NBFIs for non-compliance withr eportingr equirements.
TheFS AP report madea numb er of recommendations regarding licensing rules, and investment and lending
restrictions Thenew businessr uleshav e takenint o accountmo stof the recommtendationsmad e byth e FSAP
report, except int wo areas: (i) defining a time table fori nsolventinstitutionsto raise fresh andstr ict capital; and
(ii) strengthening enforcement of prudentialr egulations.
- 7 -



Theov erallou tcomeo f thisact ivityis partally satisfactory. T he last implementation supportmiss ion had
indicatedthat this rating wouldbe upgradedto " satisfactory" depending on the department'sprogress on applying
sanctions against non-complianti nstitutions in a timely manner.F rom interviews dunng the ICRpr eparation, it
appears that the BOG isst ill hesitant about strengtheninge nforcement of prudential regulationsa nd applying
sanctions. 3 out of8S avingsandL oan companies were stillnotcomp liant withminim umca pitalr equirements.O f
the 2 building societies thathadbeen previously given until June 30, 2002 tor estructure andr ecapitalize,onehad
presenteda restructuring plan while the other had been given a revised deadline of Dec 2002.
3. Bank of Ghana - Banking Supervision
Thisco mponent was addedju stbe foreth e mid -term review. So meacti vities which were scheduled tobefun ded
under thePr ivateEnter priseand ExportDevelop mentCre dit weretr ansferred to theNBFI project atthe GOG's
request. Keypro ject outcomes of this componentin clude.
*   A new Bankof G hanaBi 11 (which seeks to, among other things,enhance a nd strengthen the Central Bank's
Independence)was approved in February 2002.
*   All 17 banks and 114 rural banks were inspectedduring 2001 .A sa tN ovember 2002 the annual inspection for
alll7banksa nd 69 rural banks had been completed.
*   There was a marked improvement inoff sitesup ervision following theprov ision of IT equipment andtr aining
financed under thec redit.
*   BOG has9 "relieving managers" whoar e sentt o rural bankst o assist managers,str engthen boards etc.
*   BoGhas established new minimum capital requirementsof 25billion Cedis for Ghanaian Banks, 50 billion
Cedisf or ForeignBan ksand 70billio n Cedisf or Development Banks. These requirements are forlicens ing of
new banks and arei ncluded inthe revisedBankin gBill. BOGhas givenall the existingbank s 3 years to
attain the minimum capitalr equirements.
The lastsupervisionmissionhad ratedthis componenta spar tially satisfactory. It had indicated that achievinga
"satisfactory" rating would dependto alar ge extenton theability of theBOG's Banking Supervision Department
(BSD) to improve its trackr ecord ofenfo rcingprud entialr egulations, andthepassag e ofpen dinglegis lation by
Parliament.
The overall ratingof this component at the timeof theICR is satisfactory. T he BOG is making strong efforts to
meet itssup ervision targets. The BankingBillhasbeen draftedand reviewed and is thepro cess of being forwarded
to Parliament.
4. National Insurance Commission
When the project began,N IC already existed and hadr esponsibility for regulation, supervision, andl icensingi n
the insuranceind ustry. Howev erN IC had not beenable to undertake its dutiesdu e to shortageof financial
resources, office space, and qualifiedpro fessional staff. Whilein dustrypro vided the officesp ace, thepro ject
providedthecom puters and training. Key outcomes of thiscom ponent include:
*   NIC is fully operationalwitha staff of 34, a functionalM ISand trained staff.
*   Draft manuals forins pectionhav e been preparedand havebeen usedfor inspections.NIC expects to have the
manualsf inalized by December 2002.
*   In20 01,NIC completed offsite inspections for 16 of the 18ins urance companies.
*   For 2002,asat November, NIC hadcom pletedoffs ite reportsforl6 companies. 7 companies had been subject
- 8-



to onsiteins pections. For 6 of these7 companies reports hadbeen completedand discussed with management
andthe companies had beena sked to prepare remedial action plans.
The NIC alsomnheri ted another activitythat had originallybeen designedas part oft he SIC component. T he
existing SIC training center was tobe converted intoa I nsurance Industry Training Center( IITC) for the entire
insuranceind ustry. However other private insurance companies wereno t keen on an industryc enter beingown ed
and runby ani nsurance company. Therefore the decision wasta ken to have theN ICc onstructa ndownthe IITC.
Theprojectpro vided70 % of thefun dingf or the IITC. Thebu ilding has beencom pleted andN IC expectsthe
center to be operationalbyM arch 2003. NIC is planning togive a management contract forthe trainingc enter to
apr ivate management training group.
The lastsupervisionmissionhad ratedthis componenta spar tially satisfactory. It had indicated that achievinga
"satisfactory" rating would depend to a large extent on theappro val of the pending legislation.
The overall rating oftheNI C component at the time ofthel CR is satisfactory.Th eNIC h ass uccessfully
implemented most of the activities it wassup posedto implement. Asf orthe outstandingl nsuranceBill and
Insurance Legislations, theN IC andM OF haveunder takent hea ctivities underthei r control andthe le gislation is
expected to bepu t forwardbeforePar liament shortly. The NICis alsomak ing strong effortstomeetits annual
inspection targets.
5.Se curitiesan dEx changeCo mmission
The objectiveof this component wastost rengthen the regulatoryan dsu pervisorycapa city of theSecu nties
RegulatoryCo mmission (asit was then called). Itwas believed thata well supervised securities industry would
improve the confidence and increasethe number of savers and investors. At project inceptionthe SRC had been
legislated to supervise and regulate the securitiesmarket (by the Securities IndustryL aw, 1993) bu t hadno t yet
beenest ablished asa separate agency The Govemor ofthe BOG wasex ercising the functions ofth e'SRC on a
temporarybas is.
Under the NBFI Project, the SEC wassetup asa separateagen cy andanind ependent Commissionerwas
appointed. Key outcomes of this component include:
*   TheSEC is fully operationalwitha staff of 20 staff.The new IT system that allowsSE C to tracktradin g
activity became operational in June 2002
*   The Securities Industry (Amendment)A ct 590 was passed in 2000. The Regulations on Mutual Fundsa nd
UnitTr usts( LI 1695) wereapp roved by Parliament in December20 01. T he Secutitiesand Exchange
Regulations whichw illsp ellou t requirementsr elating to licensing, disclosure, transaction levies etc.we re to
be presented toParliam entbefo reth e end of 2002.
* SEC has prepared a compliancemanu al which is usedf orbo thon site and offsiteins pections.
*   Inboth 2001a nd2O 02 all14 entities wereinsp ected throughr eview of offsiter etums. During200 lon site
inspections were carried out onl I of14 firms( 78%). During20 02 (up to November), onsiteinsp ection had
been carried out on 8 entities. SEC's target for completion by year endwas 1Oenti ties ( 71%).
The overallr ating ofthisc omponentis satisfactory.
6. GhanaStockEx change
The objectivesof this component included the strengthening oftG SE's institutional capacity and improvement in
its efficiency through the establishmentof a clearinga ndsettle ment system, and MIS, and links withoth er stock
exchanges. T hec omponenta Iso aimedto buildl ocalc apacitybystr engthening GSE'str aining program and
expandingtheown ership of securities by individuals.
-9-



The keyou tcomeso f this componentare:
*   Efficiency improved as a result of installation of a newM IS with related hardware. Informationdissem ination
improved through intemetconnections.
*   Settlementperio d wasredu ced to T+5 (from T+10); Failed transactions wereredu ced to below 1% (from
14%).
*   Formal links were established with 3 exchanges( Johannesburg, Nigeria, and Nairobi) The GSE hadi tsf irst
cross-borderlisting inN ovember20 02, when a bank from The Gambialisted itshares on the GSE.
*   Thenu mber of individualsecurity holdersincreased to27 0,000f romthep re-project estimate of5, 000(lar gely
due to thesuccess ful listingof Ashanti Goldfields and Ghana Commercial Bank)
* The number of participants on securities training coursesa ndprofessio naldevelo pment workshops has more
than doubled. In 2001 income fromtr aining courses andseminars comprised 13% of GSE'soperat ing
income.
The shortcomings of this componentinclud e:
*   The number oflisting s only increasedf rom 18 to 23 (farlower than thetar get of 40+)
*   The automatedcle anng, settlementand depositary systemwa s not installed. Theoriginalbud get for this
systemwas $1.4m and the procurement processbeg an in 1999. Howevertherewere a number ofpro curement
delayswith the result that byMay 2000 the procurementhad notbeen completed. Aspartof the deliberations
regardingthe extensionof the project,t he Bank teamr e-assessedthisc omponent. The Bankte am initially
questioned the appropriateness of thepar ticular CSD package beingp roposed forGS E,in v iew ofis sues
related toe conomic viability and regional integration. The Bankte amf urther recommended thatt heCSD part
oftheGSE com ponent be included undertheexten ded NBFI. Upon further discussions with GOG and
subsequentr eviewofth e proposedpac kage (withassi stance fromth e Securities MarketsSpec ialist onth e
FSAP team), the Bank team advisedt hat, inview of the slump int rading values andvolu mes,t he prevailing
macroeconomic conditions, the financial position of GSE, and other technical issues, there was no longer an
economicju stification for making an investmentofthetyp e and scalepro posed.T herefore the Bank teamwas
unable to provide ano -objection fortheparti cularCSD package proposed.
The Bank, however, continued dialogue with GSE and assisted theGSE to visit markets ofa simi lar make-up
as Ghana's Subs equentto thesevisits,the GSEr evised their CSD plans and identifieda more appropnate
package withco stest imates of aboutUS$ 400,000 Unfortunately by the time GSE completed theirrevi sed
proposal the extendedpro ject had come to an endand GSE wasun able to accessNBF Ifun ds. The
management of GSE are stillkeentoimp lementanauto matedCSD system and are in the process of
identifying financingoptio ns.Withthe encouragement ofthe Bank,the GSE isa Iso in discussions withthe
BOG aboutth e possibility ofco nfiguring a CSD system aroundth e RTGSsy stem procured by BOGun der this
Credit.
Thisc omponenti s ratedas saisfactory.
7. HIV/ AIDS Awareness
This component wasadd ed atthe time ofprojectexten sion. The Bank encouraged BOG,NI C, and SECto consider
developinga HIV/AIDs awareness campaigna nd tobu dget forthis activityin their revisedworkpro grams.
The BOGun dertooka veryinte nsiveand successful campaign aimed atthe2, 600 staffof the BOG. BetweenApril
2001 and June20 02 theyimp lemented the following activities:
- 10-



*   Defined the objective for the component: toincreas e awareness and to preventth e spread of HIV/AIDs among
the staff of the Bank by providing education and promoting safer sex.
*   Appointed a steering committee, and a implementationsec retariat.T heste ering committee included
representatives from vanous staff associations.
* Trained 133 Peer counselors to disseminate information and provide advice.
* Provided information and educationin thef orm of lectures, seminars, workshops, filmsho ws, and drama.
The secretariat alsocon tracted an outsidef inn to conducta baselinesu rvey of 11 00staff and a finalsu rvey of 800
staff. The key outcomes of thisco mponent are:
*   A large number of staffpart icipatedin theac tivities. 72% of ther espondents in the final survey had takenpar t
in atleas t one activity.
*   Knowledge about HIV/AIDs, its mode oftrans mission, and preventionincreas edsig nificantly.
*   Voluntarytestin gwasenco uraged and 74%of thestaff who knew theirHIV status, gotto know their status
duringt he intervention period.
*   Therewasso me success increatin ga moresu pportive environmentf or infected bankstaff without fear of
stigmatizationor discrimination.
*   Staff reported satisfactionw ith theaw arenessca mpaign. 81%of ther espondentsin the final survey said that
the program had influencedt heir sexualbehavior .A nd 59%of t her espondents said thatt hepr ogram had
increasedtheir awarenessabo utHIV- related issues.
UnfortunatelyBOG defined theirtarg etsb eforedo ing thebas elinesu rvey. Therefore an assessmentofou tcomes
against targetsi s difficult.
The NIC undertook a similar program, albeit on a smaller scale, from March-June 2002. All staff were involved in
one or more activities. Outcome indicators were notdefined and were notmeasu red The SEC held a workshop on
this activity.
The overall outcomeofthi s activity is rated satisfactory. Both BOGa ndNI Cimp lemented thorough, well
organized and committed camnpaignsat relatively lowcost.
8. Microand Rural Finance
This componentwas not designedat the appraisalstag e. The originalob jective wasdefined vaguely asa diagnostic
reviewtoexam ine expansionof financialserv ices andtheorig inal target outcomeof thiscom ponentwas to have
an established pilot schemet argeting small saversa nd borrowers inur ban andr urala reas. This component went
througha number of revisions andcanbestbeun  derstood intwoparts:theGHAM  FiNsub component andthe
ARBAp exBa nk component.
GHAMFIN:
In Mayl99 7,du ring thesecond supervision mission, the microa nd rural financec omponent was better defined
andi nvolved working with existing institutions T her evised progratmhad two main thrusts:
*   Institutional strengtheninga nd innovation-:thi si ncluded provision of trainingf or ruralmic rofinance
institutions (RMFIs),best practice studies and creationof aninno vation fund.
*   Coordination and PolicyFormu lation: building consensus among stakeholders anddev elopmentof astrate gic
framework.



A Microfinance Coordinator was appointed att he MOFa nd theprogramn wasl aunched.A ta roundthe samet ime
the Bankhad been supporting theM icrofinanceAc tion Research Network undera trust funded program. This
network wascon verted into the Ghana Micro Financelnst itutions Network (GHAMFIN). The NBFIPr oject
provided funds to GHAMFIN toallowit to register asa professionalasso ciationand to establish a secretariatand
equipa permanentoffic e.GHAMFIN'sactiv itiesdu ring thatperio d formso me of the key outcomes for this
sub-component. They include:
*   A trainingneedsa ssessment, designof trainingpr ogram and provisionof trainingser vices to approximately
80 member MFls;
*   Design ofa t rainingf und and a capacitybuildin g fund;
*   Establishment of a resource center asa on e-stop information sourcef orM Fls,w hich the micro-finance unit in
the Ministry ofFi nance has taken over itsopera tion.
ARB ApexBank:
This subcomponent was notpartof theorig inal design. Howevera detailed proposal and budget submittedby the
Association of RuralBan ks (ARB)wasapp roved duringthe midterm review and the ARB became a beneficiary.
The primary objectiveofthi scom ponent was tosetup an Apex Bankfor theruralba nks. The key outcomesofth is
sub-componentwer ethattheoffice of theApex technicalsecretariat were set up andsen sitizationsem inarswer e
conducted for Rural Bank managers.O perationalmanu als for the Apex Bank wereprod ucedanda new law for
establishing thebank was drafted.
The micro and ruralf inance component was partiallyexte ndedin 2000 inor der to fund the existing contractof the
microfinancecoo rdinator. Eventually the component became partof theRural FinancialSer vices Project which
becameeffe ctive in 2001.
The overall rating for thiscomp onentis satisfactory. Althoughits design wasdelayed and implementationwas
erratic it provided strong supportf orthe establishmentof GHAMFIN as an umbrellaorganization formicro and
ruralf inance institutions. It also provided thekeyinitial support for the ARB Apex Bank which was granted a
banking license in June 2001 and isnowf ully operational.
9.H omeFin anceCo mpany
Theob jectiveofth isco mponentwas to improveHFC 's efficiency andim prove itscap acityto ori ginate new
mortgages. Assistance provided included anew integrated MIS systemand awidear eanetwo rk tolink HFC's
branchesto the head office. HFCwas also able toget assistance fromABN Amro undera twinn ing arrangement
funded by the project. During the project the number of mortgages increased by1 1 7% (from 1, 676to3,6 39) far
exceeding the target of 50%. Thisc omponent isr ated satisfactory.
10. SocialSecur ityan d National Insurance Trust
The objectiveofth is componentwas to expand social security toth e informalse ctor by developing newpro ducts.
Thetar get outcome was that5% (40,000) of the working population intheinfo rmal sector(80 0,000) wouldbe
covered by June 2000. This componentisrated unsatisfactory.SS NIT did not develop any newp roducts for the
informalsec tor and attempted tomar keti tse xisting products with ther esult thatonly500 0 individuals in the
informal sector were covered. Theman agement of SSNIT lost interest in this effort andclos ed down the informal
sectordepar tment.
It isw orth notingthat although thecom ponentdid not meetits objectives, the Bank continued tousethe project
and thepo ssibility ofr estored funding to carry on a dialogue, anchored inFSAP findings, encouraging SSNIT
management to initiate seriousr estructuring efforts. As ar esultSSN IT prepared a Memorandumof
Understandingbetweentheir Board andSe niorM anagement and subsequentlyGhanawas selected as oneof nine
- 12 -



Sub-Saharan Afncan countrnes to be included ina WorldBankpensio n reforminitiati ve.
11. School of Administration,Univ ersity of Ghana
The objective of this component was toexp andan dim prove the SOA'sexec utived evelopment program The
project providedassi stance toun dertakeanin dustry assessment andtode velop new study materials. A portfolio of
30sp eciallydes igned courseswasd evelopedu nder thepro ject.Partic ipation inth e executive programin creased by
78% (from 42 inl9 98to 79 in 2000) exceeding the target of 60%. The assistance appears to haver esulted in
sustainedbenefits as the number of participants increased further to 130 in 2001 andis expected to reach 350 for
2002. This component isr ated satisfactory.
12. Institute of Chartered Accountants
The objective of this componentw as toexpan da ndimpro ve thel nstitute'st rainingprograms inorder to increase
the number of qualified accountants. With the assistance provided under the projectthe ICAG wasabletodev elop
new study modules Thenu mber of qualified accountants increased byl 2 % (from 770 in 1998 to 870 in 2000)
exceeding the targetoflO %. Theimp rovementapp earsto besu stainable as the number furtherincreasedto95 Oby
the end of200 1. This component is rated satisfactory.
13. Management Developmentan d Productivity Institute
This small component comprised$50 ,000 to financea trainingsp ecialist to conduct acom prehensiver eview ofthe
activitiesof the MDPI. T he review wasinten ded to startinNov ember 1998.T he mid term review mission team
visited theM DPI and foundou t that the MDPI wasin the process of implementinga multi-year expanslonprog ram
involving on-going massive investments in infrastructure. Based on those findings, the mission indicatedt hata
comprehensiverev iewwo uld not provide any value added.
14. State Insurance Company
The objectiveo f this component wasto create alev elp layingfield and a competitivean deffici ent industry
structure byth e removal of SIC's monopolyon allstat e-ownedbu sinessesan dth e divestitureofSlCto private
investors. T hec redital located $2.625 milliont o restructure and modernize SICpri ort o privatization. T he
technicalass istancewassu spended becauseGOG decided to place SICo nthe marketim mediately followingthe
effectivenesso f the NBFI project.Th erefore the componentwas canceled. TheGO Gproceededwith the planned
privatization and bids were receivedan drev iewed.Ho wever theGOGfeltth at none of thebi ds were acceptable
and theprivatiza tionprocess wasc anceled.
Discussions with SIC indicatethat as at November 2002:
*   Although SIC stilllegally has the monopoly on allG OGbu siness, SICis choosing not to use this regulation
andiswelco ming competitionon a"lev el playingfield ". NeverthelessSIC believes itsti 11 controls about 60%
of the GOG and SOE business.
*   SIC has beenund ergoing a major restructuringto reduce its contingent liabilities andto improve its financial
positionun der a new managementteam. This restructuringis expected tobe completedby theend of 2004 at
which timeSI C should berea dy to restart the divestiture process.
15. GhanaRein suranceCo rporation
The mainob jective of thisco mponent was therem oval of GRC's monopolyo nrein surancebu siness.Thi s wasto be
doneby thee limination of the legalr equirement for 20%cessio n for allins urance policies. TheGRC had been
initiallya llocatedU S$ 1.05million under the NBFI credit tosupp ort its effortsin maintaining its viability after it
lost its monopoly position. GRCus ed part of this amount to develop a newMIS.
In addition the credit provided financialsup port to prepare GRC for privatization. In November19 98theM oF
- 13-



informed theBank that funds had already been provided toG RC for itsprivatizati onund erthe PEPTAproject and
NBFIfu nds ($ 250,000) wouldno t be needed
Furtherdiscussion s after that mdicated that theG OG was unlikely toel iminatet hele gair equirement for 20%
cessionof all insurancepo licies to GRC. Discussions between the Bank and GOG stalled over this issueand
furtherac tivitiesun derthiscomp onent wereputonho Id.I n20 00the GOG eventuallyr equested thatthis
component be canceled
Fromdiscuss ionswi th industrypar ticipants,the indicationsa re thatt he 20% cession rule hasbeenr evised to
benefit allGhan aianreinsu rancecom panies and notjustGRC. However GRC still gets about 60-80% of the local
reinsurancebu siness because it isf eltthat the only other domestic competitor,M ainstream Reinsurance,is not
adequately capitalized. Thel argest partof the reinsurance business still goes to internatonalc ompanies such as
MunichReand Swiss Re.
16. PrivatizationTrus t
Theorig inal objective of thiscom ponentwas to createa privatization trust to foster publicplacem ent ofenterp rises
to be divestedun derthediv estiture program. Thedes ign was that the GOGwou Id place blocksof minority shares
ofth e publicen terpnsesbein g divested witha trustwhi chwou Id have a GOG nominated board but wouldbe
managedby a private portfoliomanag er.The shares wereto be held in the trustf ora penod note xceeding three
years and werethento be sold to( a) theperson nel of the public enterprise being privatized;( b)the Ghanaian
public; and( c) institutional investors.
An initial study was done and the recommendationswer er eviewedby the mid term reviewmis sionteam and
discussed with the MOF. During the discussions the MOF put forward anotherpropo sal thatdiff ered in design
fromthe originalcon cept. T he MOF did notwishthe trust to bemanag edbya pnvatepo rtfolio managerbut
rather bythe MOF.Furth ermore the MOF wanted to create unittr ustswhich would beman aged by the
PrivatizationT rust. T he Bank adviseda gainstt his approach andt her esult of thedisc ussionsw as that the
Privatization Trustcomp onentw as dropped from theproject andthe GOGr equested thatit be canceled.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Notap plicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Notap plicable
4.5 Instituttional developnment impact:
The overall institutionaldevelopm ent impactisr ated as substantial, asa num ber ofkey institutions inthe financial
sector werestr engthened. T hese include theSE C, NIC, GSE, HFC, and BOG. I n each ofthe institutions the
project had an impact in twoway s:
*   by improving efficiencythrou gh thedesig nand installation offiew managementinformatio nsys tems,the
project enhanced the institution'sabil ity to makeeff ective use of its human resources;
*   by providingop portunities for training and skills transfer, the project enhanced theskills of eachi nstitution's
humanr esources.
In the absenceofa project suchasNBFI, institutional development wouldpro bablyhav etake npla ce in BOG
(NBFI Department), the GSEan dHFC. However it would probablyh ave been at a much slower pace. BO G has
become considerablymo re rigorousinitssu pervisionand follow-upof bothban ks and NBFIs Ontheoth er hand it
isun likely that the SEC and NIC would have gotveryf ar withoutsup port from theNBFI project. At the beginning
of the proejct, neither NIC nor SECwer e functioning as active supervisors. Both have now initiated on-siteand
off-site inspectionreg imes.
- 14 -



Oncethe pendingl egislation isapproved,G hanashou Id havea mod ema nd strengthenedl egal and regulatory
frameworkf or banking, insurance, and capital markets. T he stncter regulations combinedw ithst rengthened
supervisoryc apacity atSEC, NIC, and BOGsho uld have alasting positive impact ontheinstitu tional structureof
theG hanaianf inancial system.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The two main factors werethe macroeconomic situation in the countryand Bank performance:
Macroeconomic situation: Thesevere terms of trade shocks (a dropin cocoa prices and an increase in oil prices)
led to a very sharpdep reciation (from26 50 cedis perdo liar at the endof 1999to55 00 cedis perdo liar at the endof
2000). Inthe aftermath oft his depreciation thestockof medium term financial assets almost vanished. I nterest
rateshadr isen to 46 % by June20 00andlittle mo neyw aspu t into long-term assetsother than realestate  Stock
market activity deceased significantly and commercial banks found it much easierto invest in T-bills rathert han
real sectorle ndingopp ortunities.
BankP erformance: The Bank performance during supervision affectedthep roject bothn egativelyand po sitively
as discussedbelo w inSection 7.2.Altho ugh the changesinT TLs and lack of IT expertise ledtoprocu rement and
implementation delays, the useof FSAP recommendationsand refocusingof the project at the extensionph ase
helped lead to satisfactory outcomes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to governnient control
Thetwomain factors were the change in government and lackof support forsom e components:
Changei n government: Aftertheelection s in December 2000there wasa newgo vemmentwhich inheritedman y
projects. T henewg ovemmentwan ted to reviewth e portfolioof donor funded projects to ensureth at thepro jects
were consistentwithth e new government's development agenda Therefore they chose to reexamine the NBFI
project in great detail and according to theT TL,thisled to considerable delays inso me components
Lack of support: Altho ugh itwas not an explicit partof theNBFI project, implementationof the govemment's
divestiturep rogramwasex pected to supportth e growtho fth e stockmark et. Because of theGOG'sde cision not to
use the stock market (only 6 or7of the 300div estitureswer edo ne through the GSE),theGSE component was
adverselyaff ected.
In addition, the quality ofandinter estof headsof beneficiaryagencies had a significant impact oni mplementation
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.
The main factorsthat are subject to implementing agency controla re project coordination, procurement, and
financial management.
Project Coordination: T he PCT was initiallystaffed bya Project Coordinator who washired extemally ona
contract. Wh ilethe beneficiaries did notr eportanyissu es withproject coordination duringhistenure,Bankstaf f
felt thathis projectcoo rdinationwas not fullyef fective. Atthetimeof project extension,theBan kand GOGhad
been discussing the conceptof mainstreaming the coordinationof allBan k funded projectsintheir respective
implementingagencies. Therefore inli ne with this thinking, theM OF appointeda full timeM OF employee as
Project Coordinator andproject coordination and monitoringimp roved substantially.
Procurement: Mostofthe beneficianes complained aboutpro curement problemsr elatedto delays ingett ing "no
objections". While some of thesesit uations were truly problems on theBan k's side (and aredi scussed below under
Bankperforman ce), a number of issueswer er elated to poorplan ning and executionby theben eficiaries. I tis not
unreasonable to expectth at theseissu es could havebeen avoided ifthef irst ProjectCo ordinator had provided
stronger assistance to the beneficianes. An ex-postr eview of procurement during 1999 and 2000 revealed that
therew asnoe vidence of procurement planning andmon itonng being done at thePCT .
- 15 -



FinancialMana gement Som e beneficiaries felt that in thee arly partof the project there hadbeen delays in
paymentsbecau se the amountallocated to the Special Account ($200,000)was notadeq uate. This point hada Iso
been raised by the GOGand theBan k hadsu ggesteda two-foldsolu tion:( a) to makethe requestfor replenishment
moreoften; and( b)to request anincrea se inthe SpecialAc count to$ 400,000. The MOF decidedthat itpre ferred
tomain tain theSpecial Account atthe lower limit. Anoth erconcernr aised by thebeneficiar ieswa s thatthere wer e
delays caused-by theGOG's decision tom oveth e Special Accounts fromco mmercialb anks toth e BOG. It appears
that BOGwa s not preparedf or this activity and the change was notimp lemented smoothly.
Beneficiary Commitment. Given the natureof the project-with so many beneficiaries - implementation was also
affectedby facto rs subject toth e beneficiary agenciesco ntrol. Fo r example the unsatisfactoryou tcome on the
SSNITc omponent was directlyattr ibutable to the factthat senior management at theagency had changedsince the
inception ofthe project and the newman agement had little desire to develop new products for the informal sector
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Table 3 shows the revisedpro jectco mponents, revisedbu dgetsand actual costs by component. Obtainingth e
necessary informationfor this tablewas made difficultby thefa ctthat neither the Bank nor the MOF had accurate
figuresabo ut the revised budgetallo cation by component. Furthermore the ICRmi ssion observedth at the MOF did
not track changes in thebu dgetbycomp onent and does not have a regularmon itoring process for comparinga ctual
costs to budgeted costs
Table 3: RevisedP roject Components, Budgets and Actual Costs (aUlfigures in U S$ million)
Original     Revised   Actual Cost
Budget       Budget
I     BOG - Payment Systems             4.05        7.07         2.75
2&3   BOG- NBFIan d Bank Supervision    0.93        1.05         2.35
4     NIC                               1.27        1.65         1.95
5     SEC                               1.25        0.92         0.54
6     GSE                               3.12        2.97         2.22
7     HIV / AIDS                          0         0.15          0
8     Micro /Rural Finance              3.75        0.75         1.32
9     HFC                               1.00        0.81         0.93
10    SSNIT                             1.25        0.79         0.99
11    SOA                               0.60        0.51         0.65
12    ICAG                              0.08        0.07         0.17
13    MDPI                              0.05        0.04         0.04
14    SIC                               3.20         0            0
15    GRC                               1.05        0.39         0.41
16    Privatization Trust               0.45        0.03          0
17    ProjectM anagement                0.60        0.60         0.76
18    Unallocated                       2.25        0.84          0
subtotal                          24.90      18.64        15.08
ExpectedGOG/ Ben. Contribution                1.00
GOGrequ ested cancellation                    2.66
Exch.Rate Adjustment (US$                     2.60
_ _ XDR)__                             _  _  __   _  _  _
Total                                   T    24.90
-16 -



Notesto Table3:
*   The revised budget figures are based on estimates included in the May 2000 Aide Memoire Actual costsare as per
GOG/MOF records
* Althoughthe BOG supervision was treated as a separate component for monitonng results, a separate cost center was not
estabhshedby MOF, and all additionalBOG costs were recorded under the NBFI component
* Although there was an estimate for a separatebu dgetfor theHl V/AID)S prograrn,the recording of the costs was done
under the existing cost centers.
*   The GOG and beneficiaryco ntnbution was not broken downby component in the onginalbu dget
The original cost of the project atprepar ation wasestimatedat US$ 24.90million, includingan IDA credit of US$
23.90 million. Of this amount $2.66 million was cancelled in March200 0. The project closingdate wa s extended
fromJun e30 , 2000 to June30, 2002. At closing,disb ursedf unds amountedto $ 15.08million which represents
63 % of the original budget of $23.9millio nand 81 % of the revisedbu dget of$ 18.64 million.
Theactualdisb ursementon the project was significantlylower thanthere vised budget, even after the additionof
newcom ponents suchas the HIV/AIDSawa reness program and the BOGBank ing Supervision component. The
primaryr easons forthis are savings in somepro curements( such astheBOG payments system) andlackof
implementationof somemajo r subcomponents (such as the GSECSDsy stem).
The GOG's contnbution toto talpro ject cost was estimated to be$50 0,000wh ileth e beneficiaries wereex pected to
contribute asimilar amount. This totalof $1.0millio n represented4%of thetotal projectcost.At closingthe
GOGcon tribution was estimated by the MOFat $60,000 (about 0 03% of the disbursed amount).MOF was unable
to provide estimates for the beneficiariescon tnbution.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
This ICR benefits fromth e fact thata majority of project components overtwo years the ICR wasdo ne. An
"End-of-Term"Revi ew wascar ried outwithall projectben eficiaries dunng the final supervisionwhere the
contnbutionofth e projectwas assessed by eachofhe beenficiaries. Withth ispe rspective, sustainability of the
project, inits restructuredf orm, isr ated as likely. A s mentioned earlier,once thependin g legislationi s approved,
Ghana should have a modem andstr engthened moder n legal and regulatory framework for banking,insura nce,
andca pital markets. The stricter regulations combined with strengthened supervisory capacity at SEC, NIC, and
BOG shouldhave a lastingpositive impactonthe institutionalstr ucture of theG hanaianf inancial system.
The key challenges for the sustainabilityof thechan ges introduced in the NBFI sector can be analyzedby looking
at four broad areas- regulatory agencies,pay mentsys tems, savings providers, and localtr aining providers.
a Regulatory agencies. BOG, SEC, and NIC nowa llhav ethe capacity toun dertake their regulatorydu ties.
However the main factor thatwill impact on the sustainability oftheir efforts ispend ing legislation.Until the
pendingla wsandr egulations arepassed,the regulatory agenciesw illbe hamperedin their activities both in terms
oflicensin g and supervision.The GOGand MOF together with theBan k will need to constantly follow upon this
issue Furth enmore to ensurethatthe agencies carry outtheir duties effectively and in asus tainable way, these
agencies will require GOGa nd MOF attention andsup port inthe following areas:
*   Monitoring ofsup ervisiont argets: Dunng thelast 2year sof the project( and dunngt he ICR) the Bank
missions emphasized the need to set targets forsup ervision activityand to monitorpro gress. I n the absenceof
future missions theon us will be on the Boardsof these agencies and the MOF toens ure that supervision
(especially onsite) is done on a regularbas is.
*   Taking action:Even if onsite supervision visits are undertaken regularly and areef fectivelydo ne by the
inspectionofficer s, the onus ison theSenio r Management of the agenciesto take action against the subject
institutions. As thishasno t been done to date, the agencies will need to develop the "willpower" and
"muscle"t o take the correct action, againstall institu tionsr egardlessof size or ownership
- 17 -



*   Continued skills development: The inspection staff at thethree a gencies will need to continue improving their
skills Interviews withpr ivate sector participants me achof the threesec tors( banking, capitalmar kets,
insurance) revealed that theinstitutio ns beinginsp ecteda re oft he opinion that the inspection staffdono t have
thenecessar y skills and experienceto challenge them.
*   Roledef inition: SEC andNI Chave a dual role of bothr egulating the industrya nd facilitatinggr owth inthe
industry. Both institutions will needM OFassistan ce intryin g to find the right balance between these two
roles
b Payment Systems: Now that BOG has implementeditsReal Time Gross SettlementSys tem, it is in a good
position to makef urther additions and improvements tothe system (such asl inking allits branches and allowing
for settlement offhardc urrencytr ansactions) T he Board of theBOG,tog ether with the GOG andM OFwill need to
monitorth isactiv ity to ensure thatthesy stem con tinues tobeeff ectiveand ef ficientand thatth e necessary
expansionsa nd improvementsa re made on a timely basis Furthermore there hasbeen discussiont hata n
alternative totheGSE having its own automated CSD system, is for GSE to onlyhav e a depositary system and for
the cleanng and settlement tobe done through theBankof Ghana's GIS. Ifthis option ispursu ed theM OF will
havetoens ure thatthereis effective collaboration between the BOG and theGSE.
c. Savings Mobilization. The savings mobilization challengesti ll remains. Although the GSEc omponent
registered success inincr easing the numberof individual shareholders, there isun likelyto beanysus tamed
increaseif the GOG continues to chooseno t to use theGSE as a divestiture vehicle. And on the insurance front,
whilene w efforts by SSNIT may eventuallybesu ccessful in attracting informal sector savers, there isa need for
substantial reform in order to stimulate private pension plansand increasedsavings
d. Local TrainingP rovaders. TheN IC is in thepr ocess of awarding a contract to an international training provider
to operatethel ITC.N ICwill get revenue in the formof rentand a share in theprofitsof the center.T he successof
the IITCas acenter ofexcellen ce for the insurance industry and as a sustainable source of revenue will depend
largely on the quality of training provided by thet raining firm and the financialt ermsof the agreement between
NICa nd the training firm.T he improvement intr aining capacity at the SOAa nd the ICAG should besusta inable
ift het woor ganizations are able to strengthen theirmar keting efforts while at the same time maintaining quality.
As both these institutions would liketo improve their training facilitiesthey have been encouraged to consider
approachingthe NICf or possible use ofspace in the newl ITC, atleast on asho rt term basis.
6.2 Transition arrangenent to regular operations:
As most ofthe projectcom ponentshav e been completedor are sufficiently wellestab lished, no formal transition
arrangementsa re necessary. SEC,NI C,GSE ,and the relevantdepartmentof BOG are expectedtoc ontinue the
work initiated underth e project. Throughout the last3 years ofthepro ject the Bank supervisionteamwer every
focused on mainstreaming activitiesin thevariou s institutions.T his efforthas reduced theneedf orspecial
transitionalar rangementsa ndhasc ontributed positively tosus tainability. TheBankwill carryouta Post-FSAP
Stock-takingmis sioninthef irst halfof20 03 whichwill providea n appropriate vehicles foron going policy
dialogue onou tstanding issues. In addition, theGhan a InvestorsAdv isoryCo uncilisactivel ylob byingf or passage
of thel egislation outstanding under the project.
The follow-on activitiesof the micro and rural finance componenta re being undertakenund er the Rural Financial
ServicesProject whichiswork ingwith both theARBAp exBan k, GHAMFIN and the micro-finance unit ofth e
Ministry ofFinan ce.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
TheBa nk'spe rformancedur ing identification, preparation, andappr aisalw as unsatisfactory. The project design
was complex and unwieldy with a largenu mber of small components.And while the project objectiveswere in line
witht he Bank's CAS,the projectc omponents did not match the objectives. Further more thele nding teamdid not
- 18 -



have thenecessaryexp ertisef oron e of the major components (micro-rural finance) and thereis little evidence that
thedesign team obtained supportf rom theta sk teamof thethenong oing RuralFinance Project.
7.2 Supervision
The Bank's supervision efforts wereled byfou r different TTLs over the 6 year life of theproject. The appraisal
TTLsu pervisedthepro ject until Februaryl 9 98.T he secondT TL tookthepro ject through the midterm review
stage. The third TTL took over inJune 1999 andl edthe restructuring ande xtension. The fourth TTL, who is
locally basedand had beeninv olved in supervision support from the start,too kov er the projectin July 2000 The
third TTL remained involvedin thepr oject witha t echnical role.
The MOF andmany ofthe beneficiariesar eof theop inion that the "frequentchang es in TTLs"wa s a negative
factorthat adversely affected the project. When asked forsp ecificstheben eficiaries indicated thattheseco nd and
thirdT TLs had different viewsof how theproject was run, that thehand over led todelays,a ndt hat the third TTL
was "tougher" and questioned someactivities( including overseas training) that had already been agreed toby the
second TTL.
The ICR teamis oftheop inion that, while the number of TTLchan gesw ere more than what would bedesirabl e,
each change actuallyledto improvementsinsu pervisionan dult imatelytoward sachiev ingofou tcomes. Thisvie w
ise xplainedf urther below insom e detail as italsoillustratessom e lessons learned.
*   Supervision under thef irst TTLwa s inadequate.T here wasnof ormal project launchandthere was a gap ofl 2
monthsbetweenthef irstand second supervision missions. T he first missiontoo kplace in March 1996, two
months before theexp ectedef fectiveness date.T he secondmis sion did not take place until April 19 97,eigh t
months after theactualeff ectiveness date.And while theseco nd supervision mission tackled some
implementation issues,a large part of themiss ion'sactivitiesw ere focusedon thedesig n of themicro-r ural
finance component.
*   The second TTLIed the project through the mid term review and effectivelyapp lied the log frame matrix in a
MTRwo rkshopto better definepe rformance indicatorsan dex pected outcomes. Theseco nd TTL alsoactiv ely
pushed for GOGdeci sions onth e divestiture components.
*   The third TTL refocused theproject on five components with additionalperf ormance indicators and required
specific annual businessplans fromthe beneficiaries. T his TTLalsoinco rporatedthe FSAPr ecommendations
intoth e project and also made a successful casef or extending the project.
*   The fourth TTL, being locally based, playeda n instrumental role insupp orting the second and third TTLs.
Whenth is individualbecam e the TTL, he wasabletospeed upthepro curement process byr educing the time
takenf orgiv ingno -objections Thisw asa significantimp rovementinthe procurement aspectas under the
third TTL there had been delays in issuing no-objections because oftheind ividual's heavy travel schedule
Supervision efforts wereno taid ed byth e fact thatth ere were a large number of beneficiaries, eachofwho expected
attention dunng a supervision mission, with ther esult that each mission could only pay cursory attentionto each
component. Neverthelesslargel yas aresu It of theT TL changes discussed above, the focusing onou tcomes,and
thesh iftinsup ervisionto the field, theov erallsup ervisionef fortimp roved significantly and is rated as
satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Overall theBan kper forinance is satisfactory,esp ecially in lightofth e positivefina I outcomeofthe project.
Although the projectwas notwell designed anddid notgetoff to ago od start, the Bankwork ed hardtor escuethe
projectaf terth e midtermr eview. The decision to extendthepro ject was correct andprov idedth e necessary time
tocomp letethe crucialcom ponents related tostre ngtheningthe regulatoryagencies and implementing thenew
payments system. The stronger supervision inthelastth reeyears (discussed above) greatlycon tributed tothe
project'so utcome.
- 19-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Theov erallbo rrower performancea tp reparationw as unsatisfactory.Thego vemmentapp earstoh avef ollowed the
Bank's lead in thedesig nof the projectwithlittle independent analysis. This isevid ent from theGOG' sLe tter of
Sector Strategy, whichis datedl3 October, 1995 -a nd wasw ritten duringproject appraisal. Furthermore,
discussionswithben eficiaries leads to the impression that the GOG madelittle attempttoestim ate the costsof
various components and simply accepted whatevertheBan kteamsu ggested.
7 5 Government implementation performance:
The govemment'sov erall performancedu ring implementation was satisfactorygiventher esults. Inthee arly
stages ofthepro ject,th e govemment wasr eticent to take decisions necssary toexp edite certain parts of the project,
particularly those relatingto the divestiturecomp onents. Although thec hangein govemment led tosom edelays,
the new govemmentwasableto  createa supportive environmenttoim plement some of thecom ponents of the
project. Inpartic ular the govemment'sdecision toinv itethe IMF/Bank to undertake anFSA Passessm ent
contributedstron gly to the implementationof the NBFI project as well as settingthestagef or futuref inancial
sector reforms.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Like the Bank, the implementing agencystartedoff po orlybu t finished strongly. The mainstreaining ofproject
coordination in the MOF after the extensionof the project greatly improved projectmo nitoring and relations with
the Bank. Furthermore therew erenomaj orpr oblems with procurement andf inancialmanagement and the MOF's
performance is rateda s satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Although theBor rower's performance at the preparationa nd initialstages of implementationw ase rratic,the
Govemment's desire to pushahead with the projectand to invitetheFSAPr eview,leadthel CRteamtocon clude
thatth eo verall borrowerp erfommance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Project design should be simplea ndha ve a few componentswith sufficientdep th. Thep roject wouldh ave
been easiertoimp lement andwou ldhav e had stronger outcomesif it hadf ocusedon two main arease.g.
strengthening regulatoryagenciesa ndimprov ing paymentsystem s. T his wouldhaver esulted in a manageable
number of components and beneficiaries (fouro r five).It would haveals oallo wedfora better definitionof
project objectives and their related component objectives.
*   Having weH defined,mea surable, understood and accepted outcome indicatorsiscritica 1. T he refinement
of outcome indicatorsdu ring the mid termr eview, together withthe new indicators introduced at project
extension, enabledbo ththeBan kand Borrower to monitorpro gress. The value ofthes e indicators needs to be
discussed indetail with thebeneficiar iestoe nsure that theind icators areac cepted. Theind icators need tobe
used over a periodof timeas a management toolandmad epart ofthe mainstream monitonng ofa ctivities
within an institution to ensure that they are notjust seena sa Ba nk requirement and aredr opped after the end
of a project.
*   Having well definedand measurable indicators would also have insulated the project frominterferen ce
at the political level which, in tum, resulted ini mplementation delays during the first half of thepr oject. An
understanding ofthe outcomeind icatorswou ldhav e mitigated theinev itablef ocus on inputs( vehicles,
computers, trips)especiall y atthepo litical level.
*   TheBa nk needs to developa n approach tosup portt he reviewan dap proval of large,co mplex IT
procurements. A large aspect of this project was thepro curement ofIT systems for the various beneficianes.
When thetimecameto review the procurementr equest andprov ide "no objection" the Banksup ervision team
struggled tof ind the necessary expertise within the Bank. T heAf rica region'sOper ationalSupp ortand
Procurementteam could use thispro ject as a casestu dy to develop an approach that wouldprev entsu ch
- 20 -



situations onf uture projects
*   Procurement delays can cause irreparableha rm to projectimp lementation. Oneo f the two main causes of
delaysinthispro ject was thetimetaken to pass legislation( largelyou tsidethecon trol of theBan k,the
implementing agency, or the beneficiaries). Theoth erwa s thetime takenf orprocu rement of goods and
services( very muchun der thecon trol ofthe Bank, theimp lementinga gency, and the beneficiaries).
*   FSAP assessments and reportsca n be veryus eful toolsinpro jectdes igna ndimp lementation. There can
be substantial benefits when there is close integration betweenFSAPsand projects. The ideal situation would
be where projectdes ign followsand is builtup on aFSAP,thu sensu ring that the projectis designed to address
theke yweak nessesid entified in the FSAP. However,as the NBFI experience shows, even TTLs of ongoing
projects canus e the results of aFSAPtorefocu sth e project's direction andim prove developmentim pact.
*   Thereis a needf or flexibilityfor projects whichare creatingimpo rtant agencies and systems. Although
the decision toexten dtheproj ect wasmad e reluctantly bytheCo untry Director, in hind sight it proved to be
theco rrectd ecision. Intensive supervisiono f a morefoc used project allowedforach ievement of outcomes
Furthermore the extension probablyallo wed forthesu rvival of two important regulatory agencies, SECand
NIC and theimp lementation of ac ritical payment system.
*   Project Coordination should be mainstreamed withinimp lementingag encies. During2000, the Bank and
the GOG agreed that the project coordination should bemainstreamedw ith the respective implementing
agencies.T his decision wasinlin e with the Afticaregio n's policywhic h is based on years ofexp enence from
vanousprojects. IntheNBFI project, project monitoring andr elationswiththeBank improvedsign ificantly
afterthe change. And the benefits ofimp roved skills andgreater ef ficientsho uld continue as the NBFI
ProjectCo ordinator isno w the Coordinator of the Micro-finance componentof the Rural Financial Services
Project.
*   The Bank can stay engaged inpo licy dialogue,bey ond the immediatecom ponent objectives. In the caseo f
theSSNIT com ponent, fundingwas stopped because ofthe institution's lack ofdesire to implementthe initial
activities in the project design. NeverthelesstheBan kcon tinued to useth e projectand the possibilityof
restored fundingto carry on a dialogue,a nchored in FSAP findings.T he result of thesee fforts is that Ghana
has been selected as one ofnin e Sub-Saharan Afncan countries tobe included in a new World Bankpens ion
reforminitia tive.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/limplementing agency:
TheGov ernmenthasr eviewed and commented on thedraft version of thel CR.T hesecom mentshav e been
considered and incorporated into the final version. Further, the Government hassubm itted its reportw ith
considerations about theimp lementationa ndcom pletion oftheproject. This reportcon firms mostof thef indings
of the ICRtasktea m. A summary of the Government's reportis included in thel CR asAnn ex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Atthe time ofappraisa 1, whileGhanahad successfully undertakenthe first major stepsin itsFinancia I Sector reform
program, its financial institutions were still weak and financial infrastructure was a severe hinderance tofurther
economic development. Despite having to weather some severe economic shocks during project implementation, most
notably inthe period around 2000, the project has been instrumental in assisting the Ghanaianauthori ties put the
sector on much stronger footing. Inevitably in a dynamic situation prioritieschan ge.Res ponsibility for divestiture
transferred to another IDA-financed project (PEPTA). Suppo rt services suchas trainingof accountants and executive
education were closed on time as the project focused onthe key areas ofpote ntiafly greatest impact. The FSAP in 2000
provideda thorough review of the sector and gavecle ar direction to the authorities on which areas were of highest
priority. The project has been instrumental infacilitatin g progress inmost of theseareas.
Whereas previously none of thereg ulatory bodieshad had much experience of operating in afra mework of prudential
regulation,bythe end of the projectall ofthe m were operating uwithin such a frameworkand weremo re actively
forcing compliance. The number of Financial Institutions meetingsolv ency requirements has improved considerably
over theproject timeframe in Banking,NBFIs, Securities and Insurance. Thepayme nts system infrastructurehas
been redesigned and restructured withheav y investment support from the project and has thereby enhancedits ability
to ensure timely andrel iable transfersoffun ds around the country- a marked improvedove r the unacceptablepos ition
atthe startof the project. Progress as measured against the FSAPreco mmendationsoverthe last two yearsof the
project demonstratessubstantialperform ance gains in several critical areas.
Inaddition,the avallabilityof critcal support servicesalso increasedsignifica ntly induding the number of qualified
accountants and access to executive business and professional training.
Spedfic details are provided inthe tables that follow.
Component: Bankof Ghana -Pa yment Systems
Target Indicators                            Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
Legislative reform: Passingan den forcement of  The Bills and Checks Bill and Payment Systems Bill were
Integrated Negotiablelns truments Act and      preparedby BOG. The billsare with MOF for onward
Electronic Funds TransferLaw                   transmissiontoCab met for approvalbef ore beingsub mittedto
Parliament. BOG is in the process of organizing a seminar for
parliamentarians.
Installationof Real-timeGro ssSet tlement System  The RTGS known as the Ghana InterbankSy stem(G IS) was
(RTGS)for high value finds transfer operational  launchedon October 11. At the time of ICRpr eparationthe system
capacity ofl 0,000 highva luetra nsactions perday  had been operating for 30 days withoutpro blems. The system was
on real-timebasis                             financed by the NBFI project
Computerized settlementofinter bank cleanng   Computenzed settlement of interbankclea ringis taking place for
andin tercitych eckcle aring                  the Accra region. BOG decided not to undertake computenzation
foroth er regions because of thelo w volume oftra nsactions.Th e
systemw as purchasedby BOG. Training was financed by the NBFI
project. BOGha s also upgraded its softwarefor the cleanngof
credii nstruments.
Theon ginal targets were: Local checkscle ared  A surveyofcle aring timesinJan 2002, undertaken by BOG, showed
D+l (in 2 days), Outstation checkscle ared D+3  that 96% of payments cleared within the definedstanda rds.An
(in 4 days); These targets were revisedto D+2 (3  independent survey commissioned by MOFsho wed similar results.
days) for local checks (withininn er zones); D+4
(5 days) within the same outer zone and between
innerzo nes;an d D+7 (8da ys) for remote
- 22 -



locations.
Enhanced shulls/knowledgeofBO G staff         BOGstaf f attended several intemal payments system conferences
andtraining courses at the Center forCentralBankingStudies at the
Bank of England.
Cash/M2 dropped to 20%h from 38 %            Cash/M2 rato fell to24W   bySept ember 1999 but then wentup to
36%by December200 0 Since then ithas beengrad uallyfall ing
andreached24% inSeptembe r 2002.
Additional- afterMTR, Extension orFSAP
None
- 23 -



Component: BankofGh ana - NBFI Supervision
Target Indicators                            Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
Operational NBFIDep artmentwith fully btained  NBFI supervision department is fully operationalwit h a staff of
staff                                        51.
Established Ongoing regulations,hcen sing and  BOG established two types of Busmess Rulesfo r NBFIs:on e set for
supervision procedures for each lindof institution  Deposit Takingln stitutions and another forNo n-Deposit Taking
in the non-bank financialsec tor              Institutions. BOG also established astanda rd formatfor Returns
which NBFIs have to submit to BOG.
Additional- after MTR,Extension or FSAP
IndustryRe ports                              Completed
% of NBFis supervised as measuredbyons ite &  29 operational NBFIs (I 00/o of allope rationalNB Fls) were
offsite supervision reports                  subjected to on-site inspectiondur ing 200 1. By November200 2,24
onsite inspectionshad been carried out
levelof complianceas measuredby onsite &      In 2001, 11 ofthe29 institutions examinedwer e not incom phance
offsite supervision reports                  In 2002, 4of the 24 institutions examined were not in compliance.
% of non -compliantco mpanies on which        Modest level of enforcement measuresin 2001 25 fines were levied
remedies imposed                              on NBFIs for non-compliancewi th reportingre quirements 3 out of
8Sa vingsan d Loan companiesstil I notco mpliantwit hmin imum
capital requirements. The 2 building societies had been givenunbl
June 30,2002to restructure andrecapi talize.Oneof the building
societies has presented a restrucuting plan toBOG.The other has
beengive n a revised deadline ofDec 2002.
Limited number of new entrantsbec ause ofstri ct  Capital requirements were raised from Cedis I billionto Cedis 15
application of licensing rules.              billion for deposit takinginstitu tionsand from Cedis5OO million
to CedislO billion for non-deposit taking institutions
-24-



Component: Bank of Ghana - Bank Supervision
Target Indicators                            Actual /Latest Estimate
Original - Appraisal
None - New component.
Additonal - after MTR,Extension or FSAP
Legislative Reform                           A new Bank of Ghana Bill (whichsee ksto, among other things,
enhance andstreng then the CentralBank 's Independence) was
approved in February 2002 A revised Banking Bill (which will
provide the legal frameworkfor, among others,lic ensing of banks)
is yet to be passed.
% of banks inspected as measured by onsite&  A1117 banks and 114 rural banks were inspected durng200l.As
offsite supervision reports                  atNove mber 2002 the annual inspection for all 17 banks and 69
rural bankshad been completed.
levelof complianceas measuredby onsite &     The 17banks arecomp liantwiththe old minimum capital
offsite supervision reports                  requirements. However as at June 30, 2002 a number of banksdid
not meet the new minimum capital requirements of 25 billion Cedis
for GhanaianBank s, 50 billion Cedis for Foreign Banks and 70
billion CedisforDev elopment Banks. BOG has givenallban ks 3
years to attain the new minimum capital requirements. Furthermore
3of thel7 banks do notmee t the required CAR of6%. As at June
30,2002of thel lIrural banks, 25 banks didnot meet the new
mimmum capitalrequir ements (Cedis500millio n) or the CAR
requirements.
% of non -compliantco mpanies on which       TheBS D continues to have limited ability to enforceco mpliance
remedies imposed                             with prudential regulations untilthe newBank ofGhana Bill is
approved by parliament and revised regulations are introduced.
Enhanced skills/ trainingof BOG staff        Asub stantial numberof BOG staffrec eivedtrai ning. 23 staff
members alsoatten ded the Computerized Audit Training program in
early200 2.
Strengthened govemance ofrur al banks        BOG has9 "relievingman agers"whoare sent to rural banks to
assist managers, strengthen boards etc.
Completed Diagnostic Review of Agncultural   Start ofre view was delayed beyond theco mpletionof th eN BFI
Development Bank                             project. The review may be financed under the PEPTA project.
-25 -



Component: National Insurance Commission
Target Indicators                             Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
Reviewand amendment of Laws and regulatons.   The Insurance Billhas been put before cabinet and NIC expects
the bill to go before parliament in December 2002 Insurance
Regulations, which detail theprescnptiv e issues relating to
licensing andmark etcond ucthav e beenprep ared and are being
discussed with industry.
Operational NIC withfil ly trained staff      NIC is fullyop eratonal witha staff of 34. The IT system financed
under the credit was installed and staff were provided training.
Established licensingand supervision procedures  Draft manualsfor inspection have beenprep ared and have been
for the insurance industry.                   used fonns pections.NI Cexp ectsto have thefi nal manualsby
December 2002.
Operational Insurance Industiy Training Center  NICex pects the center to be operational by March 2003 NIC is
planning to givea management contract forthe training center to a
private management training group.
Additional -after MTR,Extension or FSAP
IndustryRe ports                               Completed
%of entities inspected as measured by onsiteand  In 2001 NIC completed offsitere views for all 18 insurance
offsite supervision reports                   companies. In20 02,NI C had completedof fsitere views for 16of
the 18 compamnes that had submitted retums for 2001. Inadditi on
7 companies had been subject to onsite inspections.
level of compliance as measured by onsite and
offsite supervision reports                   The offsitere view showed that 9ofth e 16 companiesha dso Ivency
problems. Of the 7 companies inspected in 2002, 6 companies had
been askedto submit remedial action plans
% of non-compliant companies on which remedies  0% in 2001, 0% in 2002,NIC believes that it is difficult to impose
imposed                                       remedies under the current law and therefore prefers to use moral
suasion.
Capitalrequirementsshould beincreased to$1.0
million equivalent.                           New draft regulation / legislation includes apropo sed requirement
ofCedis 7 billion.
- 26 -



Component: Securities and Exchange Commission
Target Indicators                             Actual /Latest Estimate
Original - Appraisal
Reviewand amendment of SecurinesLa w and     The Secunties Industry (Amendment) Act 590was passed in 2000
Regulations                                  The Regulations on Mutual FundsandUnit Trusts (Li 1 695)were
approved by Parliament in December 2001. TheSecu rities and
Exchange Regulationswhich will spell out requirementsrelat ing
tolicensing, disclosure, transaction levies etc will be presentedto
Parliament in November 2002.
Operational SEC with fully trained staff      SEC established with 20 staff. New IT systemtha t allows SECto
track tradmg activity became operational in June 2002
Establishedsupe rvision procedures for each kind  SEC hasprep ared a compliance manual whlchis used for both
of institution in the secunties industry     onsite and offsite inspections.
Additional -after MTR,Extension or FSAP
%of entitiesinspec ted as measured byonsite  Inboth 200 land 2002 all 14 entities were inspected through
and offsite supervisionrepo rts              review of offsite returns. Dunng 2001 Onsiteinsp ections were
carred outonl lofl4firm s (78%). During 2002(up to
November), onsite inspection have beencarr ied out on 8 entities.
SEC's target for completion by year endis 10 entities (71%)
level of compliance as measured by onsite and  SEC was not able topr ovidefi gures of non-compliance by company
offsite supervision reports                   Theyesti mated that in200 I they had57find ings from thel I
entities inspected and 44 recommendations were implemented
within a month. In 2002the y had 29 findings of which 19 had been
implemented.
% of non-compliant companies on which remedies  SEC has notim posed remedies on anycom panies.
imposed
Estabhshmentof comprehensive nsk-based        The new regulationsapp roved by Parliament for Mutual Funds and
capital requirements for securities dealers.  Unit Trusts specify a capital requirement of Cedis I billion per
manager ofa mutualfund or unit trust and a requirementof Cedis5
billion for custodians of mutualfunds andtrustee s ofunit trusts
Strengthened reporting requirements that allows  Requirements for monthlyand quarterlyrep ortingare part of the
oversight overintr a-quarter activity        draft Securities and Exchange Regulations.
- 27 -



Component: Ghana Stock Exchange
Target Indicators                             Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
Settlement period reduced from 14day s to 5 days  Settlement period was reduced to T+5; Failed transactionsreduc ed
or less; Failed transactionsredu ced to 5% from  to below I%.
40%
# of listings increasedfrom 18 to 40+; established  Numberoflis tings increasedto23;
links with 1-2 stock exchanges.               Formal links established with 3exchan ges (Johannesourg, Nigeria,
and Nairobi)
#of individualse curity holders increasedfro m  # of mdividualsecun ty holders estimated at 270,000.
5,000to 25,000.
Improvedop erationalef ficiency               Efficiency improved as a resultofins tallationofa new MISwit h
related hardware. Information dissemination improved through
internet connections
Doubled capacity and number of tramning hours  Number of participants on secunties training courses and
provided.                                     professional development workshopsha s more than doubled. In
2001 income fromtra ining courses comprised 13% ofGS E's
opetating income.
Operational automated trading, clearingand    System has not yetbee n procured or installed.
settlement system
Additional - after MTR,Extension or FSAP
None
-28 -



Component: Microand Rural finance
Target Indicators                             Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
Establishedpilot scheme targeting small savers  Indicators revised - decisionto work with existing MFIs rather
and borrowers in urban and rural areas        than creating a new pilot scheme
Additional- after MTR,Extension or FSAP
Apexbo dies areimp lementmgand designing      Ghamfin strengthened and providing services to MFIs ARBAp ex
services for MFIs and RuralBan ks             Bank established for rural banks.
Government is playing aco ordinatingan d      Microfinance Coordinator position created at MOF
facilitating rolefordev elopment of the industry
Networkfo rmalized and providingse rvicesto    Ghamfin has 80 registered members.Gha mfin providingtrai ning to
members                                       members. Ghamfinestab lished a resource center to serve as a
one-stop center of information toser ve the microand rural finance
sector
Rural Bank Apex Bank designedan d core staff  Office of the Apextech nical secretariat was set up. Sensitization
trained                                       seminars were conducted for Rural Bank managers. Operational
manuals for theAp exBa nkwer e produced and a new law for
establishing the bank was drafted.
Fund is designed forsu pport of capacity building  Studies done byG hamfinfo rMO F on: training fund, capacity
and innovative pilot programs inMF Is         building fund; trainingneeds assessment,and benchmarking
TrainingFun d and Capacity Building Fund were begun.
- 29-



Component: Home Finance Company
Target Indicators                             Actual /Latest Estimate
Original - Appraisal
Fifty percentin crease in volume of mortgages  Volumne of mortgages ongmated increased from $12 4 million in
originating from HFC                        January 1996 to $33.0 millionin June2000 This represents a
62.5% increase. The number of mortgagesinc reased froml ,6 76to
3,639 (an increaseof I 17/o).
Introduction of new products                 Theco mpany hasin troducedah ome equitym ortgagean d alo yalty
home mortgage.Th e companyha sal so begunde veloping and
marketing newsav ings products.
MISsys tem is operational                     The MIS system includmg the GLOBUS software application was
installedandope rational by February200 0 A wideare a networkto
linkthe brancheswas also installed. The new systems have helped
improve communication and efficiency by allowing all different
systems to be on one platform.
Buildingof local capacity through twinning    Twinning arrangement was established with ABN Amroof Holland
arrangements                                  and 15 staff memberswer e trained through this arrangement ABN
Amro personnel also assisted indeve loping a credit manual,
mortgageoper ations manual,and a treasuryope rations manual. The
ABN Amro team also provided many of the ideasfo r newpr oducts
Additional -after MTR,Extension or FSAP
None
Component: SSNIT
Target Indicators                             Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
5 percent(40 ,000) of working population in the  Only 5000ind ividualswe re covered. The infornal sector
infornal sector(80 0,000) covered by June 2000.  departmnentwhic h was set up to coordinate the activities cRfhe
sector was closed down.
New products developed                        None wpr oducts werede velopedfo r the informalse ctor. SSNIT
attempted to market their regular products toinfor mal sector
clients.
100staff trained including atleast 30abroad   By June 2000, SSNIThad trained 91 staff; 59 locally and 32 abroad
Additional - after MTR,Extension or FSAP
None
-30 -



Component: School of Administration
Target Indicators                              Actual /Latest Estimate
Original- Appraisal
None
Additional-after MTR,Extension orFSAP
Industry assessment completed and marketing for  Industry Assessmentwas completed. 18ins titutionssu rveyed to
programs undertaken                            identify training needs and preferences.
Study materials developed and books and        A portfolio of 30 specially designed courses was developed under
equipment procured.                            the project An additions 20 courses were developed..
Programs have been implemented and the         Participation in the executive progmminc reased by78% (from 42
participation has increased toabou t 60% ofclass  in 1998to 79 in2000). Participation increased by afurthe r 64% to
capacity [target was interpreted asincre ase   130 in2001 . In2002 the program is expectedto attract 350
participation by 60%]                          participants. Amaj or achievement was the signing of a 2 yr
programco ntract for training24 0 employees of Merchant Bank.
Component: Instituteof CharteredAcc ountants
Target Indicators                              Actual /Latest Estimate
Original - Appraisal
None
Additional-after MTRExtension orFSAP
Training programsand materials are developed.   Study programs and manuals produced for 13 of the 16 subjects
Programs have been implemented and the number  Membership of qualified chartered accountants increased byI2%
of qualified accountants has increased byl 0%  from 770 in 1998 to 870 in 2000. By November 2001 there was a
further increase to 950 and by theendof 2002 thetota I
membership is expected to be between 980 and 1000.
-31 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
BOG - Payment Systems                              4.05          2.75           0.67
BOG - NBFI Supervision                             0.93          2.35           2.52
NIC                                                1.27           1.95          1.54
SEC                                                1.25          0.54           0.43
GSE                                                3.12          2.22           0.71
Micro / Rural Finance                              3.75           1.32          0.35
HFC                                                1.00           0.93           0.93
SSNIT                                              1.25           0.99          0.79
SOA / ICAG / MDPI                                  0.73           0.86           1.18
SiC                                                3.20           0.00             0
GRC                                                 1.05          0.41           0.39
PT                                                 0.45           0.00             0
Project Coordination                               0.60           0.76           1.27
Unallocated                                        2.25           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                               24.90          15.08
Total Project Costs            24.90          15.08
Total Financing Required            24.90          15.08
Source: GOG/MOF Project Coordination Unit
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB     -   Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    7.88         2.22          1.02        0.00        11.12
(7.58)       (2.17)       (0.87)       (0.00)      (10.62)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         8.61         0.00         8.61
- Consultancies - TA and   (0.00)       (0.00)       (8.18)       (0.00)      (8.18)
Studies
4. Services -               0.00         0.00         5.07         0.00         5.07
Consultancies - Training    (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)      (5.00)
5. Operating Costs          0.00         0.00         0.10         0.00         0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0. 1 0)     (0.00)      (0. 1 0)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     7.88         2.22         14.80        0.00        24.90
(7.58)       (2.17)      (14.15)       (0.00)      (23.90)
Source Appraisal Documents
-32 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category        ICB"                             2       N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB       ~Other__                     _  _ _ _
1. Works                        0.00          0.89          0.00          0.00          0.89
(0.00)        (0.63)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.63)
2. Goods                        4.05          0.00          1.15          0.00          5.20
(3.69)        (0.00)        (1.03)        (0.00)        (4.72)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          5.85          0.00          5.85
- Consultancies - TA and      (0.00)         (0.00)       (5.85)         (0.00)        (5.85)
Studies__                     _ _  _ _ _
4. Services -                   0.00          0.00          3.85          0.00          3.85
Consultancies - Training       (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.85)        (0.00)        (3.85)
5. Operating Costs              0.00          0.00          0.08          0.00          0.08
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.05)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        4.05  .       0.89          10.93         0.00          15.87
(3.69)         (0.63)       (10.78)        (0.00)       (15.10)
Source. GOG / MOF - Project Coordination Unit
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
ncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, traimng, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (l)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-1 z | C | < t | ; ~~~~~~~~Percent'age of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate     [    AcituallLatest Estimate            o
._____  "'TDA -  Govt.    CoF. .     rDA .    'Govt.    CoF.    IDA    Govt.   CoF.
BOG Payment Systems      4.05                         2.75      0.18               67.9
BOG NBFI Supervision     0.93                         2.35      0.14              252.7
NIC                      1.27                          1.95     0.26              153.5
SEC                      1.25                         0.54                         43.2
GSE                      3.12                         2.22      0.20               71 2
Micro/Rural Finance      3.75                         1.32                         35.2
HFC                      1.00                         0.93                         93.0
SSNIT                    1.25                         0.99                         79.2
SOA / ICAG/MDPI          0.73                         0.86                        117.8
SIC                      3.20                         0.00                         0 0
GRC                      1.05                         0.41                         39.0
PT                       0.45                         0.00                         0.0
Project Coordination     0 60                         0.76      0.03              126.7
Unallocated              2.25                         0.00                         0.0
Source GOG/MOF - Project Coordination Unit
Note. The Govt.con tnbution was notest imated by component inthe apprasal
- 33 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objectve
Identification/Preparation
Novemberl 994                2    1 Sr Financial Sector Specialist
2.Fi nancial Economist
March1995                    4   I.Fi nancial Economist
2. SrFinancial Sector Specialist
3 Sr. Insurance Specialist
4. Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 1995
6    I.Fi nancial Economist
2. PSD Specialist
3. Econ omist
4.Sr. Insurance Specialist
5.Fi nancial Specialist
6. Sr.F inancial Specialist
July 1995                    4    1 Fi nancial Economist
2. PSD Specialist
3. Econ omist
4.Sr . Insurance Specialist
Supervision
April 1996                   4   I.Fi nancial Economist
2 Micro-Finance Specialist
3 Op erations Officer
4.Sr . Insurance Specialist
May 1997                     6   L.S r. Financial Specialist
2. Economist
3.Sr. Insurance Specialist
4 Micro-Finance Specialist
5.F inancial Economist
6 Op erations Officer
U              S
May 1998                     5    1. Sr. Operations Officer
2. Economist
3.Op erations Officer
4. Consultant
5. Sr. Financial Specialist
U             U
Novemberl 998                5    1. Sr. Operations Officer
2 Economist
- 35 -



3.Op erations Officer
4. Consultant
5. Sr. Financial Specialist
S             U
June 1999                     2   I.Sr. FinancialS ector Specialist
2. Operations Officer
S             S
Decemberl 999                 3   I .Sr .Financial Sector Specialist
2. Lead Specialist
3.Op erations Officer
S             S
May 2000                      3   I.Sr .Financial Sector Specialist
2.Op erations Officer
3. Financial Management
Specialist
S             S
November2 000                 2   I.Sr .Financial Sector Specialist
2.Op erations Officer
S             S
March2001                     3   I.Op erations Officer
2.Sr .Financial Sector Specialist
S             S
November2 001                 7   1 Op erations Officer
2.Sr .Financial Sector Specialist
3.S r. Financial Economist
4. FinancialS pecialist
5. Sr ProcurementSpecialist
6. Financial Management
Specialist
7. T eam Assistant
March2002                     3   1.Op erations Officer
2.Sr .Financial Sector Specialist
3. Team Assistant
ICR
|                            __S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
November-                    2     I.Op erations Officer
December2 002                     2. Sr. Financial Sector
Specialist
(b)St aff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
ICR
Total
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial,M= Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Z Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Physical                              O H  OSUOM      OVN   * NA
O Financial                             O H  * SU O M   O N   O NA
X InstitutionalD evelopment             0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Environmental                         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
El PovertyR eduction             O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other(Pleasespecify)            O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
LI Other(Pleasespecify)                 0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   * NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,HU =Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS *U OHU
? Supervision                                      OHS OS       Ou     O HU
0 Overall                                          OHS *S O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS Os       * u    O HU
? Government implementationperforman ce            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
? Implementationagency performance                 O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
M Overall                                          OHS Os O u O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum andRecom mendation ofthePresiden t - Nov ember 6, 1995
TechnicalAnn ex - November 6, 1995
Development CreditAgreemen t - February 26,19 96
Aide-memoires andPr ojectStatu s Reports
Project Audit Reports
GOG'sCo mpletion Report
- 39 -



Annex 8. Summary of GOG's completion report
Thissu mmary waspro vided to theIC R team by the MOF.
Contents
1 0    Project Background
1 .1   Project Components
1.2    Project Costa nd Financing
1 3    Assessment ofDev elopment Objectivean d Design
1.4    Assessmento f ProjectOu tcome and Degree of Success Relative to Objective
1.5    Major Factors Affectingl mplementation and Outcome
1.6    Bank and Government'sPe rformance
1.7    Sustainabilty
1 8            Lessons Leamed
Abbreviations And Acronyms
BOG            Bank of Ghana
GOG            Government ofG hana
IDA            Intemational Development Agency
NBFI           NonBa nk Financial Institution
ICR            Implementation CompletionReport
HFC            Home Finance Company
NIC            Nationall nsurance Commission
SOA            School ofAdm inistration, Legon
ICAG           Instituteof Cha rteredA ccountants Ghana
SEC            Securitiesand ExchangeCom mission
SSNIT          Social Security and National InsuranceT rust
GHAMFIN        Ghana Micro FinanceI nstitutionsN etwork
ARB            Association of Rural Banks
AIDS           Acquire ImmuneDefici encySy ndrome
FSAP           Financial SectorA djustment Programme
GSE            Ghana Stock Exchange
BSD            BankingS upervision Department
RTGS           Real Time Gross Settlement
MIS            Management Information System
SIL            Secuntiesl ndustryL aw
GCB            Ghana Commercial Bank
LAN            LocalArea Network
WAN            Wide Area Network
PCC            Paper CreditCl earing
ATMS           AutomatedTeller MachinesSy stem
STD            Sexually Transmitted Diseases
IITC           Insurance Industry Training Centre
MFI            MicroFi nance Institutions
TASC           Transitional Apex Steering Committee
PNDC           Provisional National Defence Council
CSD            Central SecuritiesDe pository
1.0    PROJECT BACKGROUND
-40 -



TheNon -BankFinan ciall nstitution Project (NBFI) became effectivein August 1996. Thispro Ject was established
primarily toaddress the concernsof the private sectorthat the economy had not been able to generate higher
growth due to thef act that it had notbeensuccess ful inthe mobilization and allocation of domestica ndf oreign
capital, which arekeyf actors in stimulating private sector-led growth deepening theprivate sector.
This projectw asin linew ith the overallgov emient's strategy ofstr engthening and deepening the private sector
Thego vemmentr ecognised that the country has notbeen successful in themo bilisation andallocatio nof domestic
and foreign capital, whicha re key factors in stimulating private sector-led growth.One factor thathad contributed
significantly to the low formal savingsand investmentr ates was poorfinancial intermediation in theecon omy.
Despiteimp rovements inthebank ing industry,thecr eation of effectiveins titutionstointermed iatefinancialf lows
between domesticsa versan d investorsh as been hamperedb yth eweak nesso f NBFI's
The Non-Bank Financial Institutions Project wasther efore initiated by theG ovemment oftG hana with support
from the International Development Associationto develop a more competitive, efficient and well-supervised
Non-Bank Financial Sector. Theidea was toimp rovethe mobilisation ofdomest ic capital, which in turn would
encourage increasedsaving s mobilisation from the formal and informal sectors.
The project originallycov ered the following institutions.
*      Social Secunty and National InsuranceT rust( SSNIT)
*      HomeFin ance Company(HFC)
*      Ghana StockE xchange (GSE)
*      School ofAdm inistration (SOA)
*      National InsuranceComm ission( NIC)
*      Ghana Reinsurance Corporation (GRO)
*      Micro-FinancePro ject
*      Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Ghana (ICAG)
*      Securities and Regulatory Commission (SRC)( no w Secunties and Exchange Commission)
*      Bank of Ghana - NBFID epartment
*      BankofGh ana - PaymentsSy stem
*      Bankof Ghana - Banking Supervision Division
*      Statel nsurance Company
*      Privatisation Trust
*      ManagementDevelo pment Productivity Institute (MDPI)
Asat June 2000, the following 7 (Seven)ben eficiarieshad closed their various components:
*      School ofAdm inistration (SOA)
*      Instituteof Chartered AccountantsG hana (ICA GH)
*      HomeFin ance Company(HFC)
*      Social Security and National InsuranceT rust( SSNIT)
*      Micro - Finance Project (MOF)
*      Ghana StockE xchange (GSE)
*      Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI)
The following beneficiary agencies, all regulatory bodies in the financial sectorhad their components extended for
additional two years to closeat June 2002. Thereaso nf or extension was to introducenewperform anceind icators
that would soughtto increase emphasis on impact especially in the areas ofon -site and off-site supervision with
effective follow-up action against NBFI's out of compliance with regulations
- 41 -



*      Bank of Ghana - NBFID epartment
*      BankofGh ana - PaymentsSy stem
*      Bankof Ghana - Banking Supervision Division
*      Securitiesa nd Exchange Commission (SEC)
*      National InsuranceComm ission( NIC)
The components for the remaininginstitutio nswe re cancelled asa result ofund erperformance.T hey are
*      Pnvatisation Trust (PT)
*      State Insurance Company (SIC)
*      GhanaRe insuranceO rganisation( GRO)
1.01   Project Objectives
The proposedcred ith ad twoo bjectives. The first objective was to promote the growtho f an efficient, competitive,
well regulated, Non-Bank FinancialSector and an efficient paymentsys temthat would lead to
(a)increa se themob ilisation of domesticsavin gs inbo th formal and informal sectors;
(b) facilitatet hef low of intemational capital into Ghana throughbet terf inancial intermnediation;a nd
(c)su pply financial services competitively to theeco nomy.
The second objective was tocr eate an environmentcon ducivetogreat erpriv atesecto r activityan dsu pportth e
successful implementation of the divestiture programf or state-owned enterprises( SOE) and thethree lar gest
state-owned commercial banks
The project sought to strengthen thebenefic iaryinstitution s and introduce instruments,whichw ould create
conditionsto encourage substantial amounts ofsavin gsheldin informal, non-financiala ssets to move to the formal
financialsec torwh ere they can beus ed morepro ductively.
Differentins titutionsintheno n-bankingf inancial sector were at differentstages ofdevelo pmentand specific
interventions were designed in each sub-sector to,
(a) create sound legislative and regulatory frame works for each sub-sector
(b) developa ppropriate organisation structures;
(c) achieve improvements in operational efficiency;
(d) build localcapacity;and
(e)prom oteinst ruments necessaryf or increased savings mobilisationto ensure efficientand secure financial
intermediation.
1.02   Expected Output
At the endof the ProjectinJun e 2002, it was expectedthatGhan a wouldhav e:
- Strengthened thecapacityof NBFI's by enhancing the humanr esource base of the institutions under theproject
- Promoted greater competition amongNBFI 'sthroug ha dequate supervisionto accelerate inn ovation in financial
services including increased availability ofte rmf inancing,which iscurr ently a constraintto pnvate sector growth
- Strengthened the financial infrastructure and increased competition to improve domestic resource mobilisation
and make financial intermediation more effective.
- Contnbuted indirectlytopo verty reduction.
-42 -



1.1    PROJECT COMPONENTS
(A)Or iginal Components.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
Thecr editf or thiscom ponent was to provide regu latoryref orms, strengthening of regulatory andsu pervisory
capacity:or ganisationst ructuring; institutional strengtheninginc luding procurement ofc omputers and
communication equipment,and capacity building for SEC staff.
BANK OFGH ANA-NBFI DEPARTMENT
Support forth iscom ponent was for: acom prehensiver eviewo fva riousleg islation and regulatory issues
conceming NBFI'sinclud ingt he framing ofpruden tial regulations for various categones of NBFI, strengthening
regulatoryand supervisory capacity;orga nization structuring;insti tutional strengtheningincl uding the
procurement ofcom puters and other equipment and building local capacity.
BANK OF GHANA-PAY MENTSSYS TEM
Supportf ort his component was toestablish a financial datac ommunications network, ar eal-time gross settlement
system forhig h-valuef undstr ansfer, computerisation of cleanng houses and capacity building bywayof training,
andr eviewof relatedleg islativeand regulatory issues.
NATIONAL INSURANCE COMMISSION
Underthe credit,sup port for NlCw as for the following: revising the insurance law, 1989,the Reinsurancela w,
1990, and other legislation affecting the insurancei ndustry; strengthening regulatoryc apacity, creating a
framework for regulationa nd prudentialsuper vision, establishinginsura nce trainingce ntre,pr ocuringc omputers
andacces soriesand building capacity forNIC staff.
GHANA STOCKEX CHANGE
The credit was meantto establish ana utomatedtr ading,c learing and settlementsystem with a depository, expand
distributionof securities throughe ducationalc ampaigns.
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENTPR ODUCTIVITYI NSTITUTE (MDPI)
Thecreditwas tosup porta diagnostic review byMini stryof Finance to design a sustainablestru cture for MDPI
MINISTRY OFFINA NCE
The credit was meanttoprov idetechn ical assistanceto MOF forprod uctand market development in the following
areas: creationof a privatisation trust toassisttheac celerated divestitureprog ram, supportthe detailed review of
theissuesr elatedto the provision off inancial services, both savings and credit tothe informal, small-scale and
ruralsec tors
HOME FINANCECO MPANY
The credit was to support the following activities capacity building and institutional strengtheningthr ough
twinning arrangements.
SCHOOL OF ADMINISTRATION, LEGON
Thesupport for the schoolw as in the area of equipment procurement, training material,a nd trainers for financial
sector issues
SSNIT
The supportf or this component were in thef ollowing areas; building local capacity through overseas training in
investment management and improvementi n actuarial skills, and marketa nd productde velopment through
provision for SSNIT to exchange expenencesa ndkno w-how through twinningar rangement orthr ough the useof
-43 -



consultants in the design and operation of social and pensionf unds schemes for workers inthe small and informal
sectors.
(B) RevisedCo mponents
Theorig inal projectcom ponents were revised to include the following:
o      Ghana Micro Finance InstitutionsNetwork (GHAMFIN)
o      ARB Apex Bank Ltd.
O      HIV/AIDS
MICRO-FINANCE
Although originallyno t partof the micro-finance component of the NBFI project, a detailedbu dget proposal
submitted byth e Association of Rural Banks (ARB)was approved during a mid term reviewo fth e NBFlproject
held inN ovember 1998 , qualifying it as a participation institution.
Theprim ary objective was to transformtheRural/C ommunity Banks from weak anddis advantagedentities to
modem andc ompetitive institutions.
The Ghana Micro Finance Institutions Network was formed under the AfncanResear ch
Programmein February 1999, tosu pport theexp ansionand improved availability off inancial andc redit servicesto
low-income householdsand micro-enterprises especially in ther uralar eas.
Thepr imary emphasisis givent o institutionalstr engthening andpolic y considerationsunder this component
HIV/AIDS
The HIV/AIDS programme was included under theproje ct during the implementation support mission in
November20 01. Under this component,su pportwasgi ven to preventthesp readand infectionofHl V/AIDS
among thestaf f of Bank of Ghana and National Insurance Commission and theirf amilies and to provide care and
support for people livingwith AIDS.
1.2- PROJECTCO ST AND FINANCING PLAN
The total creditext ended by theBan kun derth is project was disbursed asf ollows asat 31 st October 2002.
(US$0OO's)
Schoolo f                       600                    800                    656
Administration
SSNIT                           1,250                  1,250                 988
GSE                             3,125                  3,440                  2,271
SIC                             2625
NIC                             1,275                  1,952                  1,949
BankofGh ana- PaymentSy stem    4,050                 2,835                   2,435
Bank ofGlhana- Other           925                     3,149                  2346
HFC                             1,000                  1,000                  931
Micro-Finance                  3,750                   1,520                  1,320
ICA                             75                    254                     167
SEC                             1,250                  860                    544
MDPI                           50                      50                     40
Project Mgt Unit                600                    800                    758
GRC                             1,050                  1,050                  406
Privatisation Trust            450
-44 -



Institute for Insurance         580
Unallocated                     2,245
TOTAL                          24,900                  19,500                15,029
1.3    ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ANDDESI GN
1.3.1  Development Objective
Thep rojectha d two (2)d evelopment objectives.Th efirs td evelopment objectivewas to strengthent hec apacity of
the i nstitutions byenhan cing thehuman resource base, by promoting greater c ompetition among the
non-bankingfinanciali nstitutions through adequate supervision,privatisationof insurance companies and entry
ofnew firms. The seconddevelop mental objective was to introduce instrumentswhich wouldcreate conditionsto
encourage substantial amounts of savings heldi n informal,non-financial assetsto move to the formalfi nancial
sector wheret heycanbe used more productively. Theproject had been designedto support institutions,
instrumentsandinc entives requiredto
- create sound legislative andr egulatory frameworks
- develop appropriateorganisation structures
- achieve improvements inop erationaleff iciency
- increase competition and support divestiture where necessary
- build local capacity
- develop instruments necessary for increasedsavin gs mobilisationtoensu re efficient andsecure financial
intermediation
- promoteinstitutions andi nstruments to improvethe provision of financialser vices tothe informal andr ural
sectors so that institutions in thesesectorsc an be  strengtheneda nd becomepar tof the formalf inancialsect or
1.3.2  Original Objectives and Design of the project
Thepro ject's objectiveswerela udable.Each co mponentwas well designed as the development objectives soughtto
revitalisethe NBFI'sandimp rove financial intermediationandattr act sustainable foreignpr ivateinvestm ent flows
into the economy. Howeverthedes ign of the project involvingthi rteen( 13)be neficiary institubonswas rather too
ambitious. This madeinter- agency co-ordination difficult.
1.4    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME AND DEGREE OF SUCCESS RELATIVETO
OBJECTIVE
1.4.lAchiev ementsof objectives
Most ofth e Beneficiary Institutions achieved theirtargets measured against statedob jectives andperform ance
indicators. Overall the institutions performance was satisfactory
1.4.2 Outcomesby component
Securities andEx changeCo mmission
The commissionwas set up with thepri maryob jective of playing asu pervisory and regulatoryro le for the security
industry in Ghana.T raining has been extendedt o policy makers and market operators. The latter havebee n taken
through variousworks hops andsem inars to exposethem to theL awand regulationsbein gdev eloped bythe
Commission and toe nsurethat theydound erstandthe mechanics oft he market The Commission hasdesign ed
regulations andprocedures manual for periodic inspections of licensedopera tors. The regulationonUnit Trust and
Mutual Funds were passed just atthe endof 2001by the Parliament.
Toincrease public awareness fortheCo mmission'sactivities the Commission has given high priorityfor public
education forthelast few months ofthe project. The Commission has fullyimp lemented a soundMa nagement
Information System withL ocalAr eaNetwo rk and Web site for online reporting by the licensedop erators
-45 -



National Insurance Commission
Theprim aryob jective ofthis component wasto provide support to strengthen theCom mission to regulatethe
Insurance Industrythr oughbuilding a prudent legalandr egulatory framework, institutional building and capacity
building.I n pursuitof this objective.M anagement Information Systemhas beeninstall ed andt he requisitetr aining
has been provided. This has enhanced informationf low greatly. An Insurance Industry Training Center hasbee n
completed to provide practitioners an avenue fortr aining.A draft report together with the framework for
placement and supervisionof reinsurance businesshas been completedand the review of existing laws and
preparation ofnew Insurance Laws for parliamentaryapp roval have been completed anda draf tbillhasbeensent
tothe Attorney's General departmentf orr eview. A standardizedmoto r policy has preparedandinuse.
GhanaStoc k Exchange
The key objectives for thisco mponent were toim proveop erationaleffici ency,bu ild local capacityand su pport
expanded distributionof sec urities througheducational campaigns. Although the World Bank put on holdt he
establishment ofa n automatedT rading, Clearing& Settlement Systemthe efficiency ofop erationhasimp roved
Various training programmesdev eloped bytheE xchange havebeen widely beenaccepte d by the financialmark et
as comprehensive.A s a resultof theeducation al campaignther ea re over 250,000 shareholders
Bank of Ghana ( Payment Systems)
The key project objectivewas to reduce cash dominance in the system (cash/m2 ratio) and promote non -cash
modes of paymentth at will increaseefficie ncy, competitiveness and choice for usersofpa ymentserv ices. This
development objectivewith regards to payment systems hasbe enqu ite satisfactory.Thetim eliness,sp eed and
efficiency ofclearing andsettlem entsy stems to facilitatemo netary andfiscal managementhav e increased.The
appropriate legal framework forpa ymentsesp eciallyelectro nic modes ofpa yment hasbeen created The Real
Time Gross Settlement ( RTGS) system which is a key objective component hasbeen installed and is operatingliv e
Bank of Ghana(Supe rvision and Non BankFina ncial Division)
The development objective of this component wasto strengthen the supervisory andr egulatory capacity of Banking
SupervisionD ivisiona ndNon Bank Financiall nstitutionDepartment The achievement ofthisob jective was
satisfactory.T echnicalAssistance,T raining and Logistics provided to NBFID& BSD havestre ngthenedinter nal
capacityfor effectivesup ervision of Banksa ndNon Bank Financial Institutions. Duetothis,thetumarou nd time
ofcon ducting on-siteexam ination, aswe 11 asr eportf indings ofexam inations and issue directives forcorrec tive
action havebeen reduced.
Social Security and Nationallns urance Trust (SSNIT)
Consultantswe re engaged todesig n schemes throughwhichSSN IT can respond to the needsof establishments in
theinform al and unorganised sectors, and thusexp andthe availability of social security coverageto largesegm ent
of the informal sector. This objective was notmet.Only 12.5% ofthe targetwas met The new administration
however is making efforts to increase coverage in thesecto r.
ARBApex Bank
Theprim aryob jective of the ApexTechn icalSecretar iat was to support the activities of the ApexBan k. The
secretariathasbeen successfulin the areas ofoffice equipmentprocu rement, consultancy studies, staff training and
the sensitisation seminars forthe Directors and Managersof Rural/Community Banks (RCBs). The sensitisation
seminars havebeen successful.Alltheop erating RCBs haveemb raced the Apex concept.T hishas helped to
increase share subscription substantially.
GhanaMic roF inance InstitutionNetwo rk (GHAMFIN)
The overall objective of the micro finance component of the NBFI project is tosu pport the expansion andimp roved
availability of financial andc redit services tolow-in comeho useholdsa ndthemicro-enterp rises especiallyin rural
areas.T he network, which was charged with the responsibility forthis objective,perform ed satisfactorilywith
critical benchmarks largely met. GHAMFIN has been established asa n institution and playing its role as an
umbrella organisation formic ro and rural institutions andi ti spositioningit selft o play a greaterr ole int he
-46 -



forthcoming RuralFinancial Services Project.However, its income generation mechanism is threateneda s a result
ofthedisi ntegrationofCalmead ow. Support servicesf orthecentre maygrad ually grindtoa halt assu bscribers
may notf indthe centrea nymore attractive.
Institute of Chartered Accountants Ghana
Thecom ponentwasf ormulated withthemain objective ofincreas ing the availability of skilled accountantsto
supportthe Non-BankingF inancial Institutions. There has beena n increasei n the membershipof Q ualified
CharteredAccou ntants from a total membership of77 Oin 1998to96 5inyear 2002.M oreover,thenu mbersof
students who have passed apart oft he ICA examinationsandmo vedon to ahig her and morediffic ult part of the
examinations haveinc reased byabo ut 90% from year 1998 figures.
1.5    MAJORFACT ORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
(a)Fa ctors outside governmentco ntrol
- There were occasionaldelay s in obtaining' noob jections' from the Bank for the programs and activities.
- Someoftheactiv ities alsodelay ed duetoth e frequent changesof theT ask Managersf or the project andth e
inability ofben eficiariestor espond timely to additionalBan k requirements.
- The maximum levels of funds in theSpecial Accounts (SA) (US$200,000) were inadequate. This situation
adversely affected projectim plementationpro cess.
(b) Factors subject to government control
- Periodic review meetings between thevari ous stake- holderswereno t held frequently. Resolutions of issues
thereforetoo k a while.In future,reviewmeetin gs should be regular to ensureflowof information andon -time
resolution of issues.
- Frequent changes of the project management team dunng theinitial stages of the projectdidaf fect smooth
implementation. Pending issues were not followed up expeditiously. The situation however stabilised with
appointmentof a f ulltime projectmanager.
- Training in bank's procedures andprocesses wasnota dequate.
(c) Fac tors subject to implementing agency control
Staff ofthe beneficiary institutions implemented theproject inadditio n to their normal duties. This
situation occasionally puta lotof strain on them, making project supervisionsom etimes ineffective. In
futurepro jectma nagement staffsh ould beeng agedso lely for the projectpro gramsso as to ensureits
effective supervisionand monitoring
1.6    BANKAND GOVERNMENT'SPERFO RMANCE
(a) Bank' Performance
- Theban k was generallysup portiveand helpfuldu ring the project life.T he re-focus on the regulatory agencies
wasdu nngthemi d-term review was timely. Frequent changesof TaskL eadersso meofwho m haddifferent ideas
-47 -



onp roject objectives and delaysin granting'no ob jections'h oweverham pered implementationp rocessesp ecially
during the earlystag es ofthe project.
- The design of the project involvingt hirteen (13) institutions was rather ambitious. Inter-agency co-ordination
became somehow difficult due to the number of beneficiary agencies involved.
(b)Go vernment's Performance
Overall,g ovemment performance during the NBFI project periodhas been satisfactory. However as aresu It of
coordination and monitoring problemsexp erienceddu ringthe earlystages of theproject, implementation was
somewhat delayed.
1.7    SUSTAINABILITY
Thegain s of theproj ect canbe sustained. The project componentswer eall designed toenab le the target
institutionsgro w tobeco me moreef fectiveand efficientin the performance ofth eir tasks andcon sequently, help to
improve theov erall efficiency of Ghana's financial system.
The Securities andEx change Commission hasadd ressedso meof thekey recommendations by theFin ancial
Sector Adjustment Programme( FSAP) during the last review meeting. Thecom mission has builtthe capacity to
supervise and regulate thesecu rities industry effectively. The securitieslnd ustry laws have been passed
TheBankof Ghana has installed theRTG Ssys tem and the PCC. The key personneltomanthe equipment have
acquired the skills to effectively run the system.
The HIV/AIDS programme hasbeen areon-go ing in the bank and counsellors and peers groupshave been trained
to provide education and support to victims
ThePay ment System, Bills and Check andM oneyL aunderingBills havebeen completedand forwardedtoth e
AttomeyGe neral's Departmentf or onward submission toPar liament.
Theint ernal capacityofBank ofGha na-NBFID hasb een strengthenedto effectivelysu perviseth eban ks. BSD
andNBFI D aref unctioning quitewe 11 due tothe introduction ofproce duralmanu als,str ucturedorganisation,
revised business rulesa ndpr udentialr eporting formats, and training plan.
The National Insurance Commission has instituted measures that will strengthen itssup ervisorycapacityof the
Insurance industrya ndhelp theind ustry forge ahead. The IITCi s near completiona nd this facilitywil loff er the
requisite training to build the requisite capacityf or personnel within the Industry
The GhanaStoc k Exchange havea well developed trainingcou rses which are generatinge nough fundsto
contribute tothe generalr unningof theE xchange.The project has made positiveimpact onthe activities ofthe
Exchange through improvement in operational efficiency, increasein volumes and values of trades and increasei n
the number of shareholders
HFC has developed into oneof the mostinn ovativea ndsu ccessful Non-Bank Financiall nstitutions,andits
sustainabilityisvery likely. The companyhas achieveda record growthinpro fessional staff, revenuesand profits
and hassustai nable operations.
The company hasper formedr emarkably by introducingnew mortgage instruments inthe market.H FC has
increasedits mortgage origination by additional 25% inyear 2001.
The School of Administration (SOA) hasbeen ableto develop an Executive Programof excellent quality, serving
the needs ofhu man resourcedev elopment of the beneficiary institutionsand thef inancialservicessector in
-48 -



general. Classpa rticipation has beene ncouraging.T he school had 130 (One hundred and thirty) participants in
2001 as against78pa rticipants in2000 . Thec entrei sc urrentlyge neratingf unds from increasei n enrolmenta cross
all sectors ofth e economy.
The Institute of Chartered Accountant Ghana is well positioned to continue to offer assistance to both
prospective andqu alifiedac countants.A vailable figures indicatethatinthelast couple ofyears, thenu mber of
students optingf ort heACCA examination declined.At the samneti me therehas beenan increasein thenum berof
ICA candidates.T he number ofcharter ed accountantshav e been increased by26 % since 1999. The associationis
currently generating revenues from the increase in students enrolment.
The Micro-financecom ponentach ieved its statedo bjectives. However,th e post implementation issuesarelik ely
to impact negatively on sustainability. With the disintegration of Calmeadow,sup port services forthe centre is
gradually grinding to a halta nd activities undertaken to update materialsha vebe enput on holdpe nding funding
The falloutf rom thisis thatusers and subscribers do not findit attractive to utilise the centre.
SSNIT however has had problemsm eeting the objectiveso f one of its key components. At theen dofJu ne 2000,
SSNIThad covered 5000 workers in theinfo rmalsect or as againststated objective of 40,000.T henew
managementhave made some attempts at addressingthe problemandthe recently launched5year str ategic plan of
the firm prominently featuredt his. Amission isc urrentlytouring the regions to sensitiset he workers on the
program.
1.8 LESSONS LEARNED
The following lessonsma ybeo frelev ance for similarpro jectsin the future:
- The frequent changes ofthe project management team during the initial stages of the project did affectsmo oth
implementation.
- Co-ordinationandmo nitoring problemsa Iso affectedimplem entation.I tis recommended thatf uture
programmes insist on periodic review meetings betweenthevario us stakeholderstor eviewthepro ject atagreed
intervals.
- Requests for 'NoObj ection"and the disbursements process,clearly delayed theimp lementationpro cess dunng
the initial stages of the project.This situationwasho wever rectified when the requestf or "No Objection" was
handled locally
- Thea llocation of$2 00,000 intheSpecialA  ccounts was clearly notadeq uate especiallydu nngtheinitialstages
oftheproject.T hissitu ationcon tributed to the  slow pace of the implementationproces s.Alth ough the
mid-term review missionr ecognisedthis problema nd recommended that ther equest for replenishment  be sent
to Washington more often yet there were still delays in the process. To accelerateth e processof payments for
future projects, the SA accounts shouldhav e adequate funds allocated to it.
- Training involving the Banks procedures and processes shouldbe organised early enough and periodicallyf or
beneficiary agencies. This will facilitate the implementationpro cess.
-49 -



- 50 -






flRSAC! ;;
Repri %lo.:        25213
Type:     cr



