Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6696-GH
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 16.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6,1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 10/20/95)
Currency Unit           Cedi
US$1.00                Cedis 1,295
Cedis I million         US$772.20
SDR 1.0                 US$1.494
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGC        -   Ashanti Goldfields Corporation
ATM        -   Automated Teller Machines
BOG        -   Bank of Ghana
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA    -   Danish International Development Agency
ERP        -   Economic Recovery Program
FINSAC    -   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDI         -  Gross Domestic Investment
GDP         -  Gross Domestic Product
GDS         -  Gross Domestic Savings
GOG         -  Government of Ghana
GRO         -  Ghana Reinsurance Organization
GSE         -  Ghana Stock Exchange
HFC        -   Home Finance Company
ICAG       -   Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ghana
IRS        -   Internal Revenue Service
MIS         -   Management Information Systems
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
MDPI       -   Management Development and Productivity Institute
NBFI        -  Non-Bank Financial Institutions
NIC         -   National Insurance Commission
PCT        -   Project Coordination and Implementation Team
PEED       -   Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
PT         -   Privatization Trust
RTGS       -   Real Time Gross Settlement System
SIC        -   State Insurance Corporation
SOE         -   State Owned Enterprises
SRC         -   Securities Regulatory Commission
SSNIT      -   Social Security and National Insurance Trust
SWIFT      -   Society for Worldwide Inter-Bank Financial Telecommunications
TOR         -   Terms of Reference
VSAT       -   Very Small Aperture Terminal
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Government of the Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Beneficiaries:            Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); Securities Regulatory Commission
(SRC); Bank of Ghana (BOG); National Insurance Commission
(NIC); State Insurance Corporation (SIC); Ghana Reinsurance
Organization (GRO); Social Security and National Insurance
Trust (SSNIT); Home Finance Company (HFC); School of
Administration at University of Ghana; Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Ghana (ICAG); and Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Poverty:                  Not applicable. However, indirect benefits are expected to accrue
to the poor through growth enhancing effects of improved
financial intermediation in the rural and informal sectors.
Amount:                   SDR 16 million (US$23.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with a 40 year maturity
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign     Total
------------US$ million------------
(net of taxes and duties)
Government              0.5       --         0.5
IDA                     --        23.9      23.9
Beneficiaries           0.5       --         0.5
TOTAL                   1.0       23.9      24.9
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    Not Applicable
Technical Annex:          T-6696-GH
Map:                      IBRD 23606
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
lofficialduties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Ghana for SDR 16 million (US$23.9
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, to help finance a
Non-Bank Financial Institutions Assistance Project.
2.    Part of the proceeds of the Credit (equivalent to US$2.3 million) would be relent to
revenue-generating beneficiaries for ten years including three years of grace at a market-
determined variable interest rate. The balance of the Credit (equivalent to US$21.6
million) would be used by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and passed on to non-revenue
generating beneficiaries as grants. The Government of the Republic of Ghana will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
3.    The Economy. Ghana, a country of about 16 million people, is well endowed with
natural resources. The economy has traditionally depended on primary production and
exports of cocoa and minerals. Agricultural production, primarily rain fed and small scale,
is concentrated on staple food crops and cocoa. Ghana ranks among the world's largest
producers and exporters of cocoa. About 60 percent of the Ghanaian labor force is
employed in agriculture which accounts for about 45 percent of GDP. The service sector,
consisting largely of trade and public sector services, is the second largest employer, with
over 25 percent of the labor force and accounts for just under 40 percent of real GDP. The
industrial sector accounts for about 16 percent of GDP and employment; it is relatively
diverse and well developed by sub-Saharan African standards.
4.    Compared to other West African countries, Ghana once enjoyed a relatively high
standard of living, but poor economic management during the 1970s and the early 1980s
led to a prolonged economic downturn. As a result, the Government introduced an
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983 in order to: (a) restore and sustain
macroeconomic stability; (b) improve the efficiency of public sector resource management;
and (c) create an incentive framework to enhance efficiency, encourage savings and
investment, and provide an enabling environment for private sector development.
5.    Current Macroeconomic Background. After a number of years of strong
macroeconomic performance, there was a marked reversal in fiscal performance during the
run-up to the 1992 elections when large wage awards were granted to the civil service and
other public sector employees. In addition, delays in passing increases in imported oil costs
to consumers gave rise to large revenue losses. As a result, the overall budget reverted
from a surplus position of 1.5 percent of GDP in 1991 to a deficit of 4.8 percent in 1992



- 2 -
and growth in money supply expanded rapidly. There has been a remarkable turnaround in
the fiscal balance from a deficit of 4.8 percent of GDP in 1992 to 0.8 percent in 1994.
Including divestiture receipts, the fiscal balance was in surplus of 2.2 percent in 1994.
However, in 1994 the Bank of Ghana (BOG) was again unable to curtail monetary growth
because of unplanned borrowing by the parastatal Ghana National Petroleum Company to
cover losses on oil trading and other activities. Since the election-related fiscal shock of
1992, Ghana's macroeconomic situation has remained fragile. Despite stepped-up open
market operations, the money supply grew by 46 percent in 1994, most of it in the last
quarter. With GDP growth lower than expected due to untimely rains, inflationary
pressures intensified and average inflation for the first seven months of 1995 reached 40
percent.
6.    Ghana's external position, after deteriorating in 1992-93, improved substantially in
1994. The external current account deficit rose from 3.6 percent of GDP in 1991 to 9.2
percent of GDP in 1993. Ghana experienced a shortfall of US$200 million (or nearly 4
percent of GDP) in long-term concessional aid in 1994, but the impact on the overall
balance of payments was mitigated by receipts from the divestiture program and short-term
external borrowing by the Cocoa Board. Consequently, Ghana's foreign exchange reserves
position improved to over four months of imports by the end of 1994, compared with only
three months at the end of 1993.
7.    The 1995 macroeconomic program, aimed at restoring macroeconomic stability, is
supported by a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved by
the IMF Board on June 30, 1995. Implementation of the macroeconomic program is on
track. At the core of the 1995 macroeconomic program--as agreed under the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) 1995-97--are measures designed to secure a fiscal surplus of 1.2
percent of GDP and a money supply growth of 14 percent. Real GDP is projected to grow
at 5 percent. Notwithstanding an outbreak of civil disturbances in mid-May 1995 which
led to the withdrawal of the value added tax (VAT), the original PFP fiscal targets are
expected to be met.
8.    Country/Sector Background. The Government has succeeded in mobilizing
greater public revenues through tax reform, improved tax collections, and rationalization of
consumption taxes and user charges. Public investment has grown from negligible levels at
the beginning of the ERP to about 9 percent of GDP in 1993, and the focus has changed
from direct investment in productive activities to rehabilitation of economic and social
infrastructure, especially roads and human resources development. The Government
abolished the import licensing system in 1989. Tariffs on imports have been reduced
substantially, and excise taxes on imports have been set at par with locally produced goods.
Export taxes, except that on cocoa, have been abolished.
9.    Ghana has a market-determined exchange rate system and a relatively low-tariff
trade regime, free of quantitative restrictions. In April 1990, the Government introduced an
interbank market supported by a weekly wholesale auction of foreign exchange, with a
view to encouraging such transactions among banks. More than half the foreign exchange



- 3 -
in the interbank market is supplied by the Central Bank. Foreign exchange transactions at
exchange bureaus were also legalized in 1990. The spread between the interbank exchange
market and bureaus has continued to fall, and is currently less than 10 percent. Thus broad
sectoral policies have been put in place satisfactorily.
10.   The Government has been implementing a program of wide-ranging financial
reforms. It has abolished interest rate controls and sectoral credit ceilings, improved the
legal framework governing banking activities, and introduced uniform accounting and
auditing standards for all banks. The central bank is strengthening the supervision of
banks. A program to restructure the finances and management of distressed banks has been
completed. The country has established a small stock exchange, which is expected to be a
vehicle for floating shares of public enterprises to be divested. Under the second Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II), the Government of Ghana (GOG) has also
undertaken to divest its majority ownership in Ghana's three largest state-owned
commercial banks. The Government has put in place independent, international financial
advisors to prepare and coordinate the divestiture program. The first step in the divestiture
of the Social Security Bank, the public offering of 15 percent of the bank's equity, has been
completed. Preparation for the divestiture of the other two banks, including Ghana
Commercial Bank which is the largest bank in the country, is underway.
11.   Project Rationale. Ghana has achieved significant economic progress in the last
ten years as a result of the broad-based adjustment strategy adopted under the ERP.
However, there is concern that the economy's growth performance have fallen short of
expectations. This is, in part, due to the fact that Ghana has not yet achieved much success
in the mobilization and allocation of domestic andforeign private capital, which are key
factors in stimulating private sector-led growth.
12.   Firstly, on the domestic front, both gross domestic savings (GDS) and gross
domestic investment (GDI) as proportions of GDP have fallen below 10 percent since
1980, much lower than in the developing countries in Asia. However, household survey
data show that significant amounts of household savings (about 10 percent to 15 percent of
GDP) are held in the form of non-financial assets, which results in an inefficient use of
scarce savings. Also, the formal financial sector has been unable to mobilize adequate
amounts of equity and medium- to long-term financing. The recently completed Ghana
Financial Sector Report (Report Number GH- 13423, dated December 29, 1994) concludes
that one factor that has contributed significantly to the low formal savings and investment
rates is poor financial intermediation in the economy. Ghana also lacks an efficient
domestic payments system necessary to provide fast and convenient transactions to the
entire financial system. Despite improvements in the banking industry, the creation of
effective institutions to intermediate financial flows between domestic savers and investors
has been hampered by the weakness of non-bank financial institutions (NBFI). These
NBFI often play very important roles in increasing the mobilization of savings, particularly
the term savings necessary to promote equity and term financing. Since Ghana has been
achieving significant progress under the broad macroeconomic and banking sector reform
programs, it is now necessary for it to turn its attention to the development of a



- 4 -
competitive, efficient and well supervised non-bank financial sector to improve the
mobilization of domestic capital, which in turn would encourage increased savings
mobilization from the formal and informal sectors.
13.   Secondly, in an era where it is increasingly desirable for declining official flows to
be replaced by private flows, the economy has begun to attract interest from both direct and
portfolio foreign investors and from the large number of Ghanaian residents abroad. This is
evident from the success of the local and foreign portions of Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation (AGC) share issues and the sale of GOG minority holdings to foreign portfolio
investors. Yet, Ghana lacks the well developed institutional infrastructure necessary to take
advantage of these developments to build true "emerging market" status for its economy.
Ghana must now seek to develop the institutions, instruments and incentives necessary to
attract sustainableforeign private investmentflows into its economy.
14.   The Ghana Financial Sector Report concluded that effective financial
intermediation will require: (a) the promotion of greater competition and more innovation
in the sector (involving divestiture and well supervised entry and exit); (b) the
strengthening of the financial and legal infrastructure (including human resource
development, better payments system, especially cash management, and improved
information on enforcement of contracts); and (c) the integration of the formal and informal
financial sectors. While previous IDA operations have gone a long way in addressing
problems in the banking sector, improving their financial infrastructure, and promoting
competition in the banking industry, issues related to the non-bank financial sector have not
been explicitly addressed until now.
15.   The Bank's involvement in Ghana's financial sector started in 1987. It has focused
primarily on strengthening BOG and building stronger banking institutions at the core of a
more responsive banking system. The two Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (FINSAC
I, 1988, and FINSAC II, 1991) have supported the development of the banking sector by
improving the regulatory framework, building capacity at BOG, restructuring distressed
banks, and divesting public ownership in banks. In addition, the Small and Medium
Enterprises and Rural Finance Projects have dealt with some issues related to informal and
rural finance institutions. The next step, which is the focus of this project, is to strengthen
NBFI and some associated financial infrastructure, by building on initiatives such as the
promulgation of the NBFI Law, 1993 (which deals with nine specific categories of NBFI
such as mortgage finance institutions, finance companies, savings and loans, etc.) and the
revision of the Securities Industry Law, 1993.
16.   Currently, the non-bank financial sector in Ghana is small, contributing only about
24 percent of the total financial assets in the country, with 11 percent in the government-
owned Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) and 4 percent on the stock
exchange. As a comparison, in South Korea, NBFI accounted for 61 percent of total
financial assets in 1992, up from 49 percent in 1987. Though the non-bank financial sector
is diverse, apart from SSNIT, the other NBFI are small and do not appear to be developing
as expected. The Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) has only 18 companies listed, but is



- 5 -
expected to benefit from the excellent response to the recent privatization of AGC and
seven other companies in which GOG has minority interests. There are 16 insurance
companies but the industry is dominated by two state-owned firms. Other NBFI include
five recently established merchant banks, the Home Finance Company (HFC), building
societies, one unit trust, one venture capital company, two discount houses, and three
leasing companies. Except for SSNIT and HFC (which follow commercial management
practices) and two major insurance sector institutions, other NBFI are privately owned.
With appropriate technical support, these NBFI could be strengthened to make financial
intermediation more effective so that this sector can realize its potential for mobilizing and
investing the capital required to generate higher growth in the economy.
17.   Project Objectives. The proposed credit has two objectives. The first is to
promote the growth of an efficient, competitive, well regulated, non-bank financial sector
and an efficient payments system in order to: (a) increase the mobilization of domestic
savings in both formal and informal sectors; (b) facilitate the flow of international capital
into Ghana through better financial intermediation; and (c) supply financial services
competitively to the economy. The second is to create an environment conducive to greater
private sector activity and support the successful implementation of the divestiture program
for state-owned enterprises (SOE) and the three largest state-owned commercial banks.
18.   The project seeks to strengthen institutions and introduce instruments which would
create conditions to encourage substantial amounts of savings held in informal, non-
financial assets to move to the formal financial sector where they can be used more
productively. Different institutions in the non-bank financial sector are at different stages
of development and specific interventions have been designed in each sub-sector to support
the institutions, instruments and incentives required to: (a) create sound legislative and
regulatory frameworks for each sub-sector; (b) develop appropriate organization structures;
(c) achieve improvements in operational efficiency; (d) increase competition and support
divestiture where necessary; (e) build local capacity; (f) develop instruments necessary for
increased savings mobilization to ensure efficient and secure financial intermediation; and
(g) promote institutions and instruments to improve the provision of financial services to
the informal and rural sectors so that institutions in these sectors can be strengthened and
become part of the formal financial sector. This approach emanates from the Government's
strategy for the development of the non-bank financial sector as mentioned in the Letter of
Sector Strategy dated October 13, 1995 (Annex 1).
19.   Project Design. The project design is summarized in Annex 2, which shows the
technical assistance planned. Specifically, for each beneficiary, the project would support
one or more of the following: (a) legislative reforms; (b) regulatory reforms and
strengthening of regulatory capacity; (c) organization structuring; (d) institution building;
(e) building local capacity through technical, managerial and market development training;
(f) greater competition and divestiture of GOG shareholding; and (g) market and product
development. Project design builds on the findings of the Ghana Financial Sector Report
and ongoing financial sector work under other projects, such as FINSAC II, the Private



- 6 -
Enterprise and Export Development (PEED) Project, the Private Sector Adjustment Credit
(PSAC), etc. A summary of these linkages is provided in Annex 3.
20.   Project Description. The project addresses identified gaps in the non-bank
financial sector including: Capital Markets Institutions such as GSE, Securities Regulatory
Commission (SRC), and BOG, and Contractual Savings Institutions such as National
Insurance Commission (NIC), State Insurance Corporation (SIC), Ghana Reinsurance
Organization (GRO), and SSNIT. The project also provides for Associated Financial
Infrastructure (domestic payments system) and Capacity Building in the NBFI sector
through the School of Administration at the University of Ghana, the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Ghana (ICAG) and HFC, and Diagnostic Studies at MOF to enable GOG to
prepare strategies for future actions in expanding the provision of financial services to rural
and informal sectors. A detailed description of the project components is provided in
Annex 4.
21.   Project Cost and Financing. The estimated project cost, including contingencies,
is US$24.9 million equivalent. IDA would finance US$23.9 million equivalent (100
percent of the foreign exchange and 90 percent of local costs) and the remaining US$1
million will come from the beneficiaries (US$0.5 million) and GOG (US$0.5 million). A
breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and disbursements, and the disbursement schedule are shown in
Schedule C. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Ghana are presented in Schedules D and E, respectively.
22.   Project Implementation. Though the project has eleven beneficiaries, the program
design has been kept as simple as possible. With very few exceptions, the program for
each beneficiary is independent from that of other beneficiaries. This structure of parallel
but unrelated programs minimizes complexity in the implementation of the project.
Nevertheless, the role of the implementing agency is critical in view of coordination
required for the effective supervision of the large number of beneficiaries. It has been
agreed with GOG that MOF will be the implementing agency for this project. For this
purpose, a Project Coordinating and Implementation Team (PCT) consisting of an advisor
with experience in private sector NBFI and one support staff, has been established at MOF
under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Finance. Each beneficiary will appoint a
representative to PCT to assist in project administration and implementation. While each
beneficiary would have primary responsibility for the implementation of its own
components, the PCT would be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the
implementation of the project, and for reporting to IDA as defined in the draft Project
Implementation Manual to be adopted by the time of credit effectiveness. The PCT would
be the vehicle for coordination, contact, follow-up and reporting between IDA and the
beneficiaries.
23.   The PCT would require accounting and financial management services to oversee
the project's financial aspects which would be provided by an independent accounting firm,
on a part-time basis. All Project Accounts, the Special Accounts, the Statements of



Expenditure and the Financial Statements of the project beneficiaries would be audited at
the end of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, based on
accounting data produced by the independent accounting firm. While each beneficiary
would have primary responsibility for procurement related to its components, its
representative to PCT would update Procurement Schedules and provide reports on related
activities to ensure compliance with IDA requirements. Agreement has been reached with
GOG on the standard processing time for procurement of goods and consultants. The PCT
would hire the services of a procurement and disbursement specialist (familiar with Bank
processes and guidelines) to assist the beneficiaries in the preparation and evaluation of bid
documents to ensure consistency with Bank guidelines.
24.   Semi-annual project implementation reviews would be conducted by IDA together
with each beneficiary to review the implementation of all components, including the status
of procurement and disbursement. Supervision reviews, including a joint IDA-GOG mid-
term review, would monitor the overall project execution, key project activities, project
implementation schedule, and supervision plans. They will also identify implementation
issues and develop solutions. Following project completion, scheduled for December 31,
1999, a project implementation completion report would be prepared by IDA and GOG.
25.   Though MOF, through PCT, would have the overall responsibility for coordination,
it will utilize outside resources for the execution of the project. Consultants, contractors
and suppliers would be selected in accordance with the Bank guidelines, on the basis of
proven experience in the financial sector. In line with the Bank's Africa Regional
guidelines, wherever possible, local consultants will be used. Where foreign consultants
are used for lack of requisite local skills, special attention will be given to promote transfer
of skills to the domestic industry using local counterpart teams. Consultant and advisor
contracts would include provisions for training and transfer of skills (e.g., through shared
management) to local counterparts to carry on with the program independently. Each
beneficiary would therefore appoint counterparts who would work closely with the advisor
and would also make adequate preparations before the arrival of the advisor in order to
ensure the effective utilization of his services.
26.   Monitoring and Reporting. Monitoring of the implementation of various
components and sub-components for each beneficiary under the project will be carried out
through regular supervision by the Bank and GOG in accordance with the key performance
indicators given in Schedule B2. Each beneficiary will submit an annual workplan to the
Bank and the implementation agency. MOF, the beneficiaries and the Bank will determine
if modifications to the workplan are needed. The project monitoring indicators will be
reviewed at the first semi-annual project implementation review and at the mid-term and
final reviews of the project.
27.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Operations. The experience with financial
sector technical assistance projects in Africa has been mixed. Inability to generate higher
growth and to improve mobilization of savings have been attributed to: (a) the
macroeconomic policy framework being significantly off-track, as well as unfavorable



- 8 -
sector specific conditions (e.g., credit controls, fixed interest rates, etc.); (b) the lack of
government ownership and beneficiary participation in project design and absence of
political commitment to reforms which could also result in slow disbursement; (c) weak
project management capacity; and (d) lack of supporting financial infrastructure, such as an
efficient payments system, strong institutions, appropriate legal framework, etc.
28.   Learning from the above, this project has been prepared in close collaboration with
all stakeholders, the beneficiaries, GOG, BOG, and the financial community in Ghana, to
ensure the strongest possible commitment. These stakeholders also participated in the
preparation of the Ghana Financial Sector Report. GOG, in its Letter of Sector Strategy,
has reaffirmed its support for strengthening and deepening the non-bank financial sector.
The issues of macroeconomic framework and the project management capacity are
addressed in the risks section. Finally, improving the quality of supporting financial
infrastructure is being addressed under this project as well as under other projects such as
FINSAC II and PEED. The success of recent privatizations, such as Ashanti Goldfields,
and implementation of an ambitious divestiture program show GOG's commitment to
continuing reforms as well as the potential for significant improvements. The timing for
this project is appropriate because GOG has completed significant macroeconomic reforms
and a restructuring of the banking sector and is now embarked on a comprehensive
divestiture program.
29.   Rationale for IDA Involvement. The project is fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in May 1995. The project directly
supports two of thefive key elements of the Bank Group's strategy outlined in the CAS:
private sector development and capacity building. Private Sector Development: each
component of the project is targeted at supporting greater private participation in the
development of the non-bank financial sector and in building local capacity in the sector.
The project also seeks to create an enabling legislative, regulatory and supervisory
environment in support of greater private participation in the non-bank financial sector.
The development of this sector, including stock exchange institutions, insurance
companies, pension funds and mortgage financing institutions, would in turn play an
important role in the development of the real sector and in promoting greater private
investment, both local and foreign. Capacity Building: one of the important objectives of
this project is to develop and strengthen facilities and institutions involved in building
capacity in various sub-sectors of the non-bank financial sector. Support, therefore, has
been provided at three levels: the formal degree program at the university level;
professional certification programs by associations; and skills upgrading programs by
various industry-wide institutions.
30.   The project is part of the Government's strategy to strengthen the financial sector
through increased domestic resource mobilization, the weakness of which has been cited by
the private sector and by the CAS as a constraint to private sector development. The
benefits to the economy of a comprehensive reform of the non-bank financial sector go far
beyond the gains to individual beneficiaries and form part of the broader sectoral reform
strategy that IDA and GOG have been working on. The Bank's continued involvement



-9-
would complement the reforms initiated under FINSAC I and II. Bank support is also
important in coordinating efforts of various donors, such as USAID and DANIDA, who
have shown interest in supporting reforms in this sector and who look to the Bank for
leadership in the reform of the non-bank financial sector. This is also supported by GOG
because it allows for the optimal utilization of the available implementation capacity.
31.   Agreed Actions. The following will take place prior to credit effectiveness:
(a) employment of an independent accounting firm and an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank; (b) employment of a technical advisor within the PCT; (c) adoption of the
Implementation Manual by the borrower; and (d) subsidiary loan agreements to be signed
between GOG and the three revenue earning beneficiaries (SIC, GRO and HFC) and
subsidiary grant agreements with at least three beneficiaries.
32.   Poverty Category. Two components of this project, the technical assistance for
expanding provisions of financial services to informal and rural sectors, and the payments
system (postal giro), would contribute to the objective of poverty reduction indirectly. The
components would enable traditionally disadvantaged segments of the population to
establish greater access to financial facilities, for both savings and credit, and thereby to
additional opportunities for income generation. The Very Small Aperture Terminal
(VSAT) design would help establish better links between rural/semi-urban areas and the
urban centers which would allow better geographical targeting of vulnerable groups.
33.   Environmental Aspects. The project is rated a Category C project as there are no
related environmental issues in the project.
34.   Program Objective Categories. The project supports IDA's private sector
development and economic management objectives.
35.   Participatory Approach. The project has evolved through continuous dialogue
with the financial community in Ghana, the beneficiaries, and GOG, starting from their
close involvement in the preparation of the Ghana Financial Sector Report, which included
a diagnostic review of the requirements for the reform of the non-bank financial sector.
The suggestions of these stakeholders have been incorporated in the project design and
each beneficiary has full ownership of its components.
36.   Project Benefits. This technical assistance project will strengthen the capacity of
the non-bank financial institutions by enhancing the human resource base of the institutions
under the project, by improving the payments system (including a nationwide cash
management system) and by promoting greater competition among the non-bank financial
institutions through adequate supervision, privatization of insurance companies and entry
of new firms. This is expected to accelerate innovation in financial services, including
increased availability of term financing (equity and loans), which is currently a critical
constraint to private sector growth.



- 10-
37.   Strengthening the financial infrastructure and increasing competition will help
improve domestic resource mobilization and make financial intermediation more effective,
which in turn would make the allocation of investible resources more efficient. The impact
that this would have on economic growth has been analyzed in Annex 5. Economic
Analysis Tables and the Key Performance Indicators are shown in Schedule B13 and B2,
respectively. The CAS envisages numerous policies and programs that would decrease
Ghana's reliance on public savings and foreign aid as sources of investment financing in
order to increase reliance on private domestic savings and foreign capital. CAS projections
forecast Ghana's dependence on aid to decline over the medium term--gross national
savings are projected to grow from 7 percent of GDP in 1994 to 15 percent in 2000 and
GDI from 16 percent to around 20 percent of GDP during the same period. Most of the
projected growth in savings (private savings to rise from 2.5 percent to 10 percent of GDP)
and investment would originate in the private sector, provided adequate policies are in
place.
38.   Even by sub-Saharan standards, Ghana's recorded savings and investment rates are
much lower than that of comparable developing countries, though, micro level survey data
reveal that household savings rates are substantially higher. As discussed in the Financial
Sector Report, savers in Ghana tend to hold savings in the form of non-financial real
assets, such as building materials or inventories which are generally neither captured in the
national accounts nor are these savings available to contribute productively to sustained
growth. The reluctance of individuals to save within the formal financial sector hampers
effective financial intermediation and depresses growth because savings are not invested in
activities with the highest rates of return. Ghana's financial system is not deep. This is
reflected by low broad money holdings (M2) of about 17 percent of GDP compared to 79
percent in Malaysia, 37 percent in Kenya and 30 percent in Zimbabwe. Ghanaians also
keep nearly half of their monetary assets in currency compared to currency-to-deposit ratios
of 10 percent in Thailand and Malaysia, and about 20 percent in Kenya and Zimbabwe.
39.   This project will also indirectly contribute to poverty reduction, the central
objective of the Bank's program in Ghana. One-third of Ghana's population, or about five
million people, live below the poverty line. Three-fourths of the poor live in rural and
semi-urban areas and it is in these areas that access to financial services is the most
difficult. Although Ghana's informal financial sector is large, with an estimated 45 percent
of all private sector financial savings mobilized through informal channels, its capacity to
intermediate between savers and investors is limited in part by the poor linkages between
the informal and formal sectors. This is because formal providers of financial services are
concentrated geographically in a few urban centers and because formal financial
institutions discourage small and micro clients even in areas where they are present. But
the informal sector's capability to mobilize savings and its information base are valuable
assets which formal institutions would like to access if the technology could be identified
and demonstrated. There may be other opportunities for profitable interlinkages between
the informal and the formal sectors, such as bringing savings generated by susu collectors
(informal deposit takers) into the formal sector or allowing traders to access formal credit
by simplifying the use of collateral. It is thus necessary to establish institutions and



- I1 -
introduce instruments that can most appropriately satisfy the savings and credit needs of
those segments of the population which are not currently serviced by the formal financial
sector, particularly the creation of the infrastructure to link rural and semi-urban areas to
urban areas and the informal financial sector to the formal sector. Improving access to
financial services is expected to generate new sources of livelihood for this segment of the
population and thus contribute to poverty reduction. To the extent that diagnostic work on
small scale and informal finance, proposed under the project, will lead to the
implementation of new mechanisms for mobilizing savings and providing credit to the poor
and micro-enterprises, the project will contribute to reducing poverty more directly at a
later date.
40.   Project Sustainability. The project would contribute to the development of a more
competitive and better-regulated non-bank financial sector and an efficient modem
payments system. The project design, which emphasizes strong ownership by GOG and
the financial community, favors building local capacity, strengthening institutional
capabilities, and promoting local training capacity to ensure a high degree of sustainability.
GOG's role in the sector would focus on preparing a suitable legislative framework and
ensuring an appropriate degree of prudential regulation to encourage the participation of
private NBFI. The design of the project has also benefited from the participation of IFC,
which has promoted several NBFI in Ghana, including the stock exchange, one discount
house, a leasing company and a merchant bank. Although the project has benefited from
consultations with IFC, it is not expected to offer opportunities for direct IFC debt or equity
investments. However, IFC staff have participated in project missions because this project
seeks to create an enabling environment for possible IFC participation in the non-bank
financial sector, particularly in the insurance sector.
41.   Risks. This is a low risk project. There are two main risks associated with the
project, one exogenous and one endogenous. The exogenous risk is that if GOG allows any
laxity in fiscal and monetary policies, it could lead to further currency depreciation and
increased inflationary pressure. Moreover, the current high interest rate levels on BOG
treasury bills undermine NBFI incentives to intermediate and lend to the private sector.
The Govermment, however, has recently tightened its fiscal and monetary policies in line
with the understandings with the Bank and IMF to address this issue and ongoing parallel
dialogue is expected to lead to increased price stability and, thus, to a lower interest rate
structure.
42.   The endogenous risk is that reform of three or four sub-sectors simultaneously
might stretch the absorptive capacity at the industry and ministry levels, and at the level of
some specific beneficiaries. At the industry and ministry level, this risk is being addressed
through a decentralized implementation arrangement, with adequate independence and
autonomy for each beneficiary, supported by assistance from the PCT supervised by an
expert on non-bank financial institutions. This project advisor, supported by a consultant
familiar with Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures, would assist individual
beneficiaries in procurement, disbursement, accounts and audits and other reporting
requirements. The fact that each beneficiary was successfully able to formulate the TORs



- 12-
for each component, with assistance from the project team, is an indicator that the
beneficiaries have adequate in-house capacity to undertake the reform effort. Also, the
mid-term review includes conditions that require timely implementation, thereby allowing
for corrective actions and minimizing the risk.
43.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
11/06/95
Attachments



- 13 -
Schedule A
Page 1 of I
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(project cost in US$ '000)
Local      Foreign      Total
Estimated Project Cost a
Equipment Expenditure                  1,705       8,270       9,975
Consultancy Expenditure               3,170        4,685       7,855
Training                              2,575        2,150       4,725
Operating Costs                         100           0          100
Base Cost                          7,550       15,105      22,655
Physical contingencies                       0           0            0
Price contingencies                        22m        1250        2.245
Total Project Cost                 8,545       16,355      24,900
Total Financing Required           845        16.3         24.900
Financing PIan
Government                                 500           0         500
Beneficiaries                              500           0          500
IDA                                       7     545  16,3S5      23,900
Total                              8545       16.135       24.900
Net of taxes and duties



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Benefits                       Most of the beneficiary institutions under this project are non-revenue
generating entities. Though it is not possible to quanlify the benefits
resulting from cach componient, a dlescription of the expected benefits
from the project for each beneficiary are listed in the Attachment below.
Costs                          Given in Attachment below.
Net Present Value              Since the benefits from the project are not quantifiable, NPV is not
applicable.
Internal Rate of Return        Not applicable.
Overall Risk                   Low
Main Beneficiaries: The support provided to various NBFI under tlhis project has been designed to benefit the following
groups of stakeholders: individual investors, small investors, issuers of securities, professionals working in the non-bank
financial sectors, homeowners, savers in the rural and informal sectors, and foreign investors.
e o
P-.
X m
XO(D
1.s



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Attachment: Objectives and Expected Benefits of the Project's Components
Beneficiary                              Objectives                             Costs                Expected Benefits
US$ mn.
Ghana Stock Exchange  Building institutional capacity to improve operational efficiency  3.125    Improved operational efficiency of GSE--
through the establishment of: (i) a clearing and settlement system;     number of failed transactions are projected to be
(ii) a Management Information System (MIS); and (iii) links with        reduced by 30 percent.
other stock exchanges.                                                  Doubled training capacity.
Building local capacity by strengthening GSE's training program.        Five fold increase in the number of security
Developing new markets and products through support for expanded        holders.
distribution of securities in urban and rural areas.
Securities Regulatory   Strengthening regulatory and supervisory capacity of SRC by  1.25     A well supervised securities industry in Ghana
Commission           improving its organizational structure.                                  would improve the confidence and increase the
Building institutional capacity by establishing an MIS.                 number of savers and investors, thereby
Building local capacity through training of staff.                      improving financial intermediation in the
economy.
Bank of Ghana, NBFI   Strengthening regulatory and supervisory capacity by improving its  0.925    A well supervised non-bank financial sector in
Department           organizational structure.                                                Ghana would improve the confidence and
Building institutional capacity by establishing an MIS.                 increase the number of savers and investors,
Building local capacity through training of staff.                     thereby improving financial intermediation in
the economy.
Bank of Ghana for    Improving financial infrastructure through the payments system and  4.05  Cash/M2 falling to 20 percent.
Payment Systems      postal giro studies.                                                    Integrated Negotiable Instruments Act and EFT
Legislative reform.                                                     Law passed and enforced.
Institution building through: (i) establishment of financial data       Operational capacity of 10,000 high value
communications infrastructure; (ii) Real Time Gross Settlement for      transactions per day on real-time basis and
High Value Funds Transfer; (iii) networked Automated Teller             500,000 checks per day at the clearing house;
Machine (ATM) capability; and (iv) computerization and automation       local checks cleared D+l and outstation D+3.
of clearing houses.
Building local capacity through workshops and overseas training.
o w
41h



Beneficiary                                Objectives                             Costs                 Expected Benefits
US$ mn.
National Insurance    Revising insurance legislation.                                  1.275     A well regulated and supervised insurance
Commission            Strengthening regulatory and supervisory capacity by improving the         industry would improve industry performance
organizational structure.                                                  and provide better safeguards to the customers
Building institutional capacity by establishing an MIS.                   of the industry, thereby leading to reductions in
Building local capacity through training of staff.                        the cost of insurance coverage.
Ghana Reinsurance     Preparing GRO for divestiture.                                   1.05      Creation of a level playing field and a
Organization          Building institutional capacity by establishing an MIS.                    competitive and efficient industry structure.
Building local capacity through local training and twinning
arrangements.
Developing new markets and products.
State Insurance       Restructuring of SIC through design and implementation of an     2.625     Creation of a level playing field and a
Corporation           organizational restructuring plan.                                         competitive and efficient industry structure.
Building institutional capacity by establishing an MIS.
Building local capacity through technical, managerial and product
development training of SIC staff.
Developing new markets and products in both life and non-life
businesses.
Social Security and   Building local capacity through overseas training.               1.25      Pension fund coverage for working population
National Insurance    Developing new markets and products through expansion of social           in the informnal sector. Better returns and safer
Trust                 security to informal sector.                                               portfolio of investments.
Home Finance          Institution building support through procurement of computers for  1.0     Fifty percent increase in volume of mortgages
Company               HFC and first-tier mortgage financing institutions.                        originating from HFC and introduction of new
Building local capacity through twinning arrangements.                     products.
e uz
CL
U.)
o D



Beneficiary                                Objectives                             Costs                 Expected Benefits
US$ mn.
Insurance Industry    Converting SIC Training Center into a training facility for the entire  0.58  The industry would be more responsive to the
Training Center       insurance industry.                                                        needs of the customers.
School of             Expanding and improving executive development programs.           0.675    Improvements in skills base of professionals in
Administration at U of                                                                           non-bank financial sector.
Ghana and Institute of
Chartered
Accountants, Ghana
Ministry of Finance   Diagnostic review to examine expansion of financial services, both  4.85   Geographical expansion and improved
savings and credit, to informal and rural sectors.                         availability of financial services.
Creating a Privatization Trust to foster public placement of enterprises   Assistance to the successful implementation of
to be divested under the divestiture program.                              the divestiture program.
Assistance to MDPI
Ie'
MI C
O0 r



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financial Summary
1996           1997           1998           1999
Implementation Period
Project Costs (US$ '000)
Investment Costs                     5,850          10,730          6,455          1,865
Recurrent Costs                                Not quantifiable (see Note below)
Total                                5,850          10,730          6,455          1,865
Financing Sources (Percentages)
IDA                                  96.00          97.90           96.50          87.80
Government                            2.00            1.10           1.70           6.10
Beneficiaries                         2.00            1.00           1.80           6.10                     i
Total                               100.00         100.00          100.00         100.00
Note: There are no recurrent costs associated with the legislative reform, divestiture, organization structuring, and
local capacity building components. For the remaining ones, i.e., the institution building, regulatory reform, and
market and product development components, recurrent costs would be estimated during the initial phase of
implementation, i.e., the planning/design phase for the component. In the case of regulatory bodies or associations
such as NIC, SRC, ICAG, the Payments Council and GSE, the recurrent costs would be borne by the industry. For
MOF, BOG and the University of Ghana, these costs would be borne by the Government. Profit making
beneficiaries, such as, SIC, GRO, SSNIT and HFC would bear their own recurrent costs.
kd )
oq m



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators*
Beneficiary                        Current                        Mid-Project                     End of Project
Ghana Stock Exchange
1. Clearing and settlement of      Fourteen days settlement period    Implementation of clearing and  Five days or less settlement period
securities                         on average; over 40 percent     settlement system; reduction of  on average; further reduction of
transactions settled over fourteen   failed transactions (over fourteen    failed transactions to 5 percent or
days.                           days) to 10 percent.            less.
2. Equity placement                Eighteen listings on GSE;       Thirty listings on GSE; 40 percent  Forty+ listings on GSE; 100 percent
capitalization US$2 billion     increase in capitalization.      increase in capitalization (from
equivalent; no links with other                                  baseline);
stock exchanges.                                                 established links with 1-2 stock
exchanges.
3. GSE training program            Low training capacity; fewer                                     Double capacity and number of
number of hours of training                                      hours of training provided.
provided.
4. Distribution of securities      Less than 5000 individual holders  Dissemination of information to  Wide network for distribution of
of securities.                  rural areas; 10,000 individual   securities; more than 25,000
security holders.               individual security holders.
Securities Regulatory Commission
Organizational structure; regulation    No formal organization structure,  SRC established with adequate  Operational SRC with fully trained
and supervision                    regulations and procedures for  staff and a training plan; an    staff, established ongoing
supervising the securities      organizational plan; draft on    regulations and supervision
industry.                       regulations and procedures;      procedures for each kind of
computers procured.              institution in the securities industry.
00d n
' This section draws on Gary Perlin's Memorandum "Financial Sector Performance Indicators" dated June 6, 1995.                        41 .



Beneficiary                       Current                       Mid-Project                     End of Project
Bank of Ghana NBFI Department
Organizational structure; licensing,    No formal organization structure,  Adequate staff and training plan;   Operational NBFI Department with
regulation and supervision of nine  regulations and licensing     an organizational plan; draft on  fully trained staff; established
categories of non-bank financial  procedures for supervising the  regulations and licensing       ongoing regulations, licensing and
institutions                      non-bank financial institutions.    procedures; computers procured.   supervision procedures for each
kind of institution in the non-bank
financial sector.
National Insurance Commission
Organizational structure; licensing,    No formal organization structure,  Adequate staff and training plan;    Operational NIC with fully trained
regulation and supervision of     poor regulations and licensing  an organizational plan; draft on  staff; established ongoing
insurance industry                procedures for supervising the  regulations and licensing       regulations, licensing and
insurance industry.            procedures; computers procured.   supervision procedures for the
insurance industry.
State Insurance Corporation
1. Organizational restructuring and  Monopoly on all state-owned  Removal of monopoly;            Sale to private investors.
divestiture                       businesses; low profits;        organization restructuring with
overstaffing; manual systems.  processes and staff rationalization;
operational MIS.
2. Market and product development   Limited products (both life and                               New products (life and non-life) for
non-life).                                                     entire insurance industry.
Ghana Reinsurance Organization
1. Divestiture                    Monopoly on reinsurance         Removal of monopoly; operational  Sale of GRO to private investor.
business; manual systems.      MIS.
2. Market and product development   Lack of diversified markets and                              New products introduced and new
products.                                                      markets tapped..
O F
0t 



Beneficiary                       Current                       Mid-Project                     End of Project
Ministry of Finance               Inadequate availability of      Completed design of pilot project   Established pilot scheme targeting
financial services to the informal  for improving financial services    small savers and borrowers in urban
and rural sector.              for small savers and borrowers.    and rural areas.
Home Finance Company              Low volume of mortgages         25 percent increase in volume of    50 percent increase in volume of
originated by primary lenders.  mortgages originated.          mortgages originated.
SSNIT                             No social security coverage for    Completed design of scheme for    5 percent of working population in
informal sector.               expanding the network.          the informal sector covered.
Payment Systems
1. Optimum legal infrastructure and    Negotiable Instruments Act and    Laws drafted and approved.  Laws passed and enforced.
financial transactions            EFT Law do not exist.
2. High value funds transfer and  Three-to-four days for local    Hardware installed; software    Operational capacity of ten        M
efficiency in clearing checks     clearing and five-to-twenty one    customized; and standards for  thousand high value transactions per
days for outstation clearing of  MICR checks approved.         day on real-time basis and five
checks.                                                        hundred thousand checks per day at
the clearing house; local checks
cleared D+1 and outstation D+3.
3. Cash dominance of the economy    CashfM2 38 percent.           Completed study on cash         Cash/M2 dropped to 20 percent.
distribution.
e u.
00 
00I-.
(D tD
P~-



- 22 -
Schedule C
Page I of 2
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement
A. Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) a
Procurement Method     Total
Project Element                           ICB        NCB    Other         Costsb
I   Goods
1.1 Computers and office equipment    7.88     2.22       1.02       11.12
(7.58)     (2.17)     (0.87)     (10.62)
2.  Consultancies
2.1 Technical Assistance:
Advisory Services and Studies                              8.61        8.61
(8.18)      (8.18)
2.2 Training                                               5.07        5.07
(5.00)      (5.00)
3.  Operating costs                                            0.1         0.1
(0.1)       (0.1)
TOTAL                               7.88        2.22      14.80      24.90
(7.58      CZ "17!    (14.15     (23 .90
a Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA Credit.
b Cost figures are net of taxes and duties, and include price contingencies.



- 23 -
Schedule C
Page 2 of 2
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
B. Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement
Amount
Category             (US$ million)            Expenditures to be financed
1. Equipment for:
a. Revenue generating          2.30             100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
beneficiaries                                of local expenditures
b. Non-revenue                 6.33             100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
generating                                   of local expenditures
beneficiaries
2. Consulting Services,        8.33             100 percent of all expenditures
training and studies
for all beneficiaries
3. Ministry of Finance
a. Equipment and               1.00             100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
vehicles                                     of local expenditures
b. Consulting Services,        3.75             100 percent of all expenditures
training and studies
c. Operating costs             0.10            65 percent of all expenditures
3. Unallocated                 2.09
TOIAL                         23 90
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY         1996         1997         1998         1999
--------------------------- (US$ million)----------------------
Annual          5.30        10.53         6.36          1.71
Cumulative      5.30        15.83        22.19        23.90



- 24 -
Schedule D
Page 1 of 1
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NON-BANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare the project:                      13 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                            Government with IDA assistance'
(c)    First IDA mission:                                     October 1994
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                            June 1995
(e)   Negotiations:                                           October 1995
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:                         April 1996
(g)   List of relevant ICRs and PPARs:
Credit No.                     Project                 ICR Date
Credit 191 1-GH                FINSAC I                March 29, 1995
This report is based on the findings of the identification, preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal missions to
Ghana led by Anil Chandramnani in 1994 and 1995. Participants in the missions and key contributors to the
report include: Claude Sorel (AFTPS) on Capital Markets, Dan Mozes (FSD), Don Mclssac (FSD) on Insurance,
Sunil Datt (FSD) on Payment Systems, and Hemant Baijal (AF4TF). Dimitri Vittas (FSD) and David Pugh
(IFC) were the peer reviewers. Sibarata Das (AF4CO) provided assistance on the Economic Analysis section.



- 25 -
Schedule E
Page I of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
STATEMENT OF IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1995)
Amount in USS Million
(less cancellation)
Loan or
Credit          Fiscal
Number          Year        Borrower    Purpose                           Bank             IDA        Undisbursed
9 loans and 58 credits closed                                             186.22           1374.84
Of which SALs and Program Loansa
Cr. 1393        83         Ghana        Recon. Imports                                       40.00          0.00
F-0090         84         Ghana        Export Rehab.                                        35.89          0.00
Cr. 1435        84         Ghana        Export Rehab.                                        40.10          0.00
Cr. 1573        85         Ghana        Recons. Import                                       60.00          0.00
A-0030         86         Ghana        Recons. Import                                       26.97          0.00
Cr. 1672        86         Ghana        Industrial Sector Adjust.                            28.50          0.00
A-0130         86         Ghana        Industrial Sector Adjust.                            25.00          0.00
Cr. 1744        87         Ghana        Education Sector Adjust.                             34.50          0.00
Cr. 1777        87         Ghana        SAC 1                                                34.00          0.00
A-0250         87         Ghana        SAC I                                                81.00          0.00
A-0251         88         Ghana        SAC 1                                                15.00          0.00
Cr. 1911        88          Ghana       Financial Sector Adjust.                            100.00          0.00
Cr. 1911-1      89         Ghana        Financial Sector Adjust.                              6.60          0.00
Cr. 2005        89         Ghana        SAC 11                                              120.00          0.00
Cr. 2005-1      90         Ghana        SAC 11                                                5.70          0.00
Cr. 2005-2     91          Ghana        SAC 11                                                8.30          0.00
Cr.2236-0       91         Ghana        Private Invest. Promotion                           120.00          0.00
Cr.2236-1       92         Ghana        Private Invest. Promotion                             6.10          0.00
Cr.2236-2       93         Ghana        Private Invest. Promotion                             6.54          0.00
Cr. 2345-1      94         Ghana        Agricultural Sector Adj.                              5.74          0.00
Cr. 2140       90          Ghana        Education Sector Adjust. If                          49.94          0.00
Cr. 23452       95         Ghana        Agric. Secal                                          5.00          0.00
Sub-Total                                                                                   854.88          0.00
Cr. 1847        88         Ghana        Public Enterprise TA                                 10.50          2.60
Cr. 1854        88         Ghana        Cocoa Rehabilitation                                 40.00         23.59
Cr. 1858        88         Ghana        Transport Rehabilitation 1                           60.00          4.93
Cr. 1921        88         Ghana        Mining Sector Rehab.                                 40.00          7.01
Cr. 1946        89         Ghana        Telecommunications 11                                19.00          2.52
Cr. 1976        89         Ghana        Forest Res. Management                               39.40         13.62
Cr. 1996        89         Ghana        Private SME Dev.                                     30.00          5.60
Cr.2039         89         Ghana        Water Sector Rehab.                                  25.00         12.31
Cr. 2061        90         Ghana        Fifth Power (ECG)                                    40.00         10.31
Cr. 2109        90         Ghana        VRA/Sixth Power                                      20.00         16.35
Cr. 2157        90         Ghana        Urban 11                                             70.00         35.83
Cr. 2180        91         Ghana        Agric. Diversification                               16.50         13.89
Cr. 2192       91          Ghana        Transport Rehabilitation 11                          96.00         35.00
Cr. 2193       91          Ghana        Health & Population II                               27.00         14.34
Cr. 2224       91          Ghana        Econ. Management Support                             15.00          5.50
Cr. 2247       91          Ghana        National Agric. Research                             22.00         18.20
Cr. 2318    *  92           Ghana       Financial Sector Adjust. ll                         100.00         39.46
Cr. 2319        92          Ghana       National Feeder Roads                                55.00         43.12
Cr. 2345    *  92           Ghana       Agricultural Sector Adj.                             80.00         21.36
Cr. 2346        92         Ghana        Nat. Agric. Exten.                                   30.40         23.52
Cr. 2349        92         Ghana        Literacy & Functional Skills                         17.40          9.58
Cr. 2426        93         Ghana        Environmental Resource Mgt.                          18.10         12.69
Cr. 2428       93          Ghana        Tertiary Education                                   45.00         33.93
Cr. 2441        93         Ghana        National Livestock Services                          22.45          16.02
Cr.2467         93         Ghana        National Electrification                             80.00         79.53
Cr.2498         93         Ghana        Urban Transport                                      76.20         78.63
Cr.2502         93         Ghana        Enterprise Development                               41.00         39.27
Cr.2508         93         Ghana        Primary School Devt.                                 65.10         52.53
Cr.2555         94         Ghana        Agricultural Sector Invest.                          21.50         20.19
Cr.2568-0       94         Ghana        Local Govemment Dev.                                 38.50         40.06
Cr.2604         94         Ghana        Community Water & Sanitation                         21.96         22.67
Cr.2665         95         Ghana        Private Sector Development                           13.00          12.77
Cr.2682         95          Ghana       Thermal (P-VII)                                     175.60         185.39
Cr.2695         95          Ghana       EducNVoc.Trng.                                        9.60          9.86
Cr.2713         95          Ghana       Fisheries                                             9.00          9.26
Cr,2718     *  95           Ghana       Priv.SectorAdj.                                      70.00         70.06
Cr.2743         95          Ghana       Mining Sec.Dev. & Env.                               12.30          11.80
TOTAL                                                       186.22         2947.35       1053.30
of which has been repaid                                    144.39          31.93
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                               41.83         2916.18
Amount sold          0.38
of which repaid      0.38
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                        1053.30
a Approved during or after FY80.
b Not yet effective.
* SAL/SECAL



- 26 -
ScheduhleE
Page 2 of 3
GHANA
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1995)
Original Gross Commitments
Fiscal                                                                           Amount in USS million
Year                Borrower               Type of Business        Loan                Equity               Total
1985/90/93       Ashanti Goldfields Corp.  Mining                      102.50             --     162.50         265.00
1987             Keta Basin Oil Exploration    Energy                     --           4.50                       4.50
1988/90/91/95    Billiton Bogosu Gold Lim.   Mining                     19.35           1.89      29.00          50.24
1990             Alugan (AEF)              Nonferrous metals             0.28          0.00        0.00           0.28
1990/91/93       CAL Merchant Bank Lim.    Capital Markets               8.00          0.88        0.00           8.88
1990/92          Ghanaian Australian Goldf.   Mining                    18.01           3.00      18.50          39.51
1990/93          Wahome Steel Lim.         Iron and Steel                5.20           0.00       0.00           5.20
1991         at Dimples Inn Lim.           Tourism                       0.24           0.00       0.00           0.24
1991         a/ Plastic Laminates (GH) Lim.  Industrial Equipmt.         0.60           0.00       0.00           0.60
1991             Appiah Menka Complex Lim. Chemicals and                 0.90           0.00       0.00           0.90
Petroch.
1991             Hotel Investments (Ghana)   Tourism                     4.20           0.00       0.00           4.20
1991             Securities Discount Comp.   Capital Markets             0.00           0.23       0.00           0.23
1992             Ghana Aluminium Products   Nonferrous metals            0.00           0.44       0.00           0.44
1992             Packrite Cartons and Pack    Timber, pulp and           0.60          0.00        0.00           0.60
paper
1993         al Achimota Brewery Comp.    General                        3.50           1.00       0.0            4.50
manufacturing
1993             Combined Farmers Lim.     Food and agribusiness         0.40           0.00       0.00           0.40
1993             Ecobank Ghana Lim.        Capital markets               6.00          0.00        0.00           6.00
1993             Polytex Industries Lim.   General                       0.40          0.00        0.00           0.40
manufacturing
1993             Primewood Products Lim.    Timbes, pulp and             1.17          0.00        0.00           1.17
paper
1993/94          Ghana Leasing Co. Lim.    Capital Markets               5.00          0.75        0.00           5.75
1994             Afarawaa Farms and Livest   Food and                    0.36          0.00        0.00           0.36
Agribusiness
1994             Ghana Cement Works Lim.   Cement and                    3.00          0.00        0.00           3.00
Construct.
1994             Ghana Household Utilities    General                    0.57           0.00       0.00           0.57
Manufacturing
1994             Palm Royale Apartment Hotel Tourism                     1.00           0.00       0.00           1.00
1995             Dupaul Wood Treatment     Timber, pulp and              1.00          0.00        0.00           1.00
paper
1995             Shangri-la Hotel          Tourism                       0.30          0.00        0.00           0.30
Total Gross Commitments b/                                             182.58          12.69     210.00         405.27
Less Cancellations, terminations, repayments &                         130.47           5.06     179.30         314.83
sales
Total Commitments now held c/                                           52.11           7.63      30.70          90.44
Total Pending Commitments                                                8.50           2.56       0.00          11.06
Total Commitments held and pending                                      60.61          10.19      30.70         101.50
Total Undisbursed                                                        2.17           0.45       0.00           2.62
a/ Investments which have been fully canceled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



- 27 -
Schedule E
Page 3 of 3
Ghana - Implementation Issues
Ghana's overall project implementation performance continues to compare
favorably with other countries in the Region. The disbursement rate for investment
projects in FY95 improved to 17 percent as compared with 13 percent in FY94. The May
1995 CPPR acknowledge improvements in the procurement process in almost all sectors
and noted that procurement procedures had been simplified and streamlined.
The 1994 CPPR and the 1995 CAS linked future lending levels to disbursement
perfornance. Greater attention to implementation by both the Government and the Bank
have begun to yield results. Total disbursements for investment operations in FY95
amounted to US$144 million as compared to $112 million in FY94, an increase of 29
percent.
The Resident Mission continues to play an increasingly important role in project
implementation and to have greater responsibility for project supervision as well as in
monitoring procurement and disbursement activities. No new problem projects were
recorded. Of the two problem projects from previous years, the Refinery & Distribution
Rehabilitation project closed in December 1994. The status of the other problem project
is as follows:
Water Sector Rehabilitation (FY90). The project has been rated unsatisfactory
for FY93, FY94, and FY95. The Action Plan agreed with the government is now
progressing reasonably well. The main reason for delayed implementation was poor
management of the utility. It is now felt that the project's development objectives
(capacity building of the GWSC) could only be met and sustained through a complete
restructuring of the sector. The government held a successful workshop in March 1995
which identified future options for the water sector and agreed, in principle, to privatize
GWSC under a new project now under preparation.



-28-                         ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
rn a.                  .                     , ,tr!. :. MINISTRY OF FINANCE
-ad  dnl.- Jr :f_
I;rrrlel;cr.d ,d                                     P.O. BOX M 40
OU, R.' N, SEC/FP/036              5                    ACCRA
Y.., RTd. N,,                 EPUBLIC OF GHANA     (3  October,    1995
T,l   V                                          .......... .......................   . 199 ..
NON-BANK FINANCIAL SECTOR
LETTER OF SECTOR STRATEGY
1.   The purpose of this letter is to define the policy that the
Government of Ghana (GOG) intends to pursue for the development
of the non-bank financial sector in Ghana and to outline
strategies for the implementation of these policies. This Letter
of Sector Strategy has been prepared in the context of the Non-
Bank Financial Institutions (NBFI) Assistance Project currently
under preparation in cooperation with the International
Development Association (IDA).   GOG has for some time been
pursuing a policy of liberalization and promotion of private
sector initiatives in the economy in general as well as in the
non-bank financial sector in particular and it is the intent of
this letter to briefly summarize what initiatives GOG proposes
to take in this sector in the coming years.
Background
2.   GOG  has  implemented  two  Financial  Sector  Adjustment
Programmes (FINSAP) in cooperation with IDA. The first, FINSAP -
I, which is now complete focused on cleaning up the portfolio of
state-owned  banks  and  strengthening  the  regulatory  and
supervisory capacity of the Bank of Ghana (BOG).  The second,
FINSAP-II, which is in the final stages of implementation seeks
to divest GOG's holdings in the banking sector and to increase
competition  through  regulatory  and  legislative  reforms,
privatization and liberalization. Under FINSAP-II, GOG took the
first steps for the revitalization of the non-bank financial
sector by authorizing detailed independent reviews of the
insurance industry and of the Social Security and National
Insurance Trust (SSNIT).
Sector Obiectives
3.   Ghana has achieved significant progress in the last ten
years under the broad-based adjustment strategy that it has
adopted under the Economic Recovery programme. However it has
not achieved much success in increasing the mobilization of
domestic and foreign capital, which is key to stimulating private
sector-led economic development.   The Financial Sector Report
prepared by the Bank in consultation with GOG concluded that one
factor that has contributed significantly to low savings and
investment rates in Ghana is poor financial intermediation in the
domestic economy. Having achieved significant progress under the
banking sector reform programme, it is now the objective of GOG
to focus on the development of a competitive, efficient,



- 29 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
and well-supervised non-bank financial sector in order to improve
the mobilization of domestic savings and investment mechanisms
and to attract sustainable foreign private investment flows into
the Ghanaian economy.
Strategy for Achieving these Objectives
4.   The  overall objective  of developing of a competitive,
efficient and well-supervised non-bank financial sector would be
achieved through a strategy based on strengthening the
institutions, developing the instruments and introducing the
incentives necessary to increase the mobilization of domestic
capital  and facilitate the flow of  foreign capital.   This
involves  taking the  steps  required  to:    (a)  create  sound
legislative and regulatory frameworks for each sub-sector;
(b) develop appropriate organization structures; (c) achieve
improvements in operational efficiency; (d) increase competition
and  support divestiture where  necessary;    (e) build  local
capacity; (f) develop new markets and products, and (g) promote
institutions and instruments to improve the provision of
financial services to the informal and rural sectors.
5.   This strategy has several interdependent elements, which are
described below:
6.   Legislative Reforms.   During the last two years, GOG has
revised the following laws:   Securities Law (1993), Non-Bank
Financial Institutions Law (1993), Home Finance Companies Law
(1993)  and the SSNIT Law (1991).   In order to complete the
legislative reforms pertaining to the non-bank financial sector
in Ghana, MOF now intends to revise the Insurance Law (1984) and
the Reinsurance Law and consider the promulgation of a Negotiable
Instruments Law and an Electronic Funds Transfer law.   The
revision of legislation pertaining to the insurance industry
would also result in deeper changes in the industry structure by
creating a more competitive industry through the removal of
exclusive monopolies in favour of State Insurance Corporation
(SIC) and Ghana Reinsurance Organization.
7.   Regulatory and Supervisory Reforms.  While notable progress
has been made on the legislative front, greater attention must
now be paid to the process of regulatory and supervisory reforms
under the Securities Law, the Insurance and Reinsurance Laws
(after revision), the NBFI Law. For instance, legislation for
the creation of an independent Securities Regulation Commission
(SRC)  has  been  passed  but  regulations  and  supervision
requirements are in the early stages of preparation. Significant
institutional strengthening and capacity building is required to
enable SRC and the National Insurance Commission (NIC) to become
effective regulators.
8.   Institution   Building   and   Organization   Structuring.
Different NBFI in Ghana are at different stages of development,
but many of them need institutional reforms.



- 30 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
In some cases, such as BOG, Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) and the
Home Finance Company (HFC), what is required is to improve
efficiency by strengthening existing institutional structures
through logistical support, process renewals and capacity
building.   In the case of the pension funds industry, only a
review of investment policy guidelines is required to ensure that
the industry continues to develop to international standards.
However, in some other cases, such as SIC and Ghana Reinsurance
Organization,   it  is' necessary  to  go  beyond  efficiency
improvements to more extensive re-engineering of organization
structures, processes and products that would be required for
these institutions to respond effectively to more dramatic
changes envisioned in the industry. In the case of institutions
such as SRC and NIC, new organization structures must be created
based on principles of efficiency and effectiveness.
9.   Building Local Capacity.  One of the key concerns sector in
Ghana is the creation of the local capacity necessary to sustain
the projected growth of the non-bank financial sector. GOG would
like to support capacity building at all levels, starting from
the graduate and undergraduate levels, followed by opportunities
for professional training in various sub-sectors, and support for
the infrastructure required for continuous upgrading the skills
of professionals working in this sector. For this purpose, GOG
gives priority to supporting capacity building institutions such
as the University of Ghana, GIMPA, Management and Productivity
Development Institute (MDPI), the proposed Insurance Industry
Training Center, the training school of the Ghana Stock Exchange,
Institute of Chartered Accountants,  Ghana  (ICAG)  etc.   The
Government supports efforts by training institutions and
individual organizations to build capacity through local and
overseas training, through twinning arrangements or other methods
of transferring and adapting technology to Ghana.
10. Market and Product Development. One important element of
the strategy to develop and strengthen the non-bank financial
sector is to diversify the product range and the market reach of
the sector so that it could respond more effectively to the
perceived needs of the Ghanaian people.  That, in turn, would
improve the viability of NBFI in Ghana.   GOG would support
initiatives to establish links between GSE and other stock
exchanges,   to  introduce  new  instruments   (such  as  the
Privatization Trust) in support of the accelerated divestiture
programme, new products in the insurance industry, a social
security scheme for the informal sector, new mortgage finance
instruments, the nationwide Payments System as well as
initiatives to improve the availability of financial services to
the informal and rural sectors.



- 31 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
Action Programme to Implement the Strategy
11. The Government of Ghana views the above strategy as an
integral part of the broader macroeconomic reforms being
undertaken in Ghana. GOG proposes to execute this strategy in
close coordination with the macroeconomic reform programme by
implementing the following actions, among others, over the next
several years:
(a) GOG proposes- to reduce its share-holding in SIC and
Ghana Reinsurance Organization to 40 percent or less
by 1998.
(b) GOG is committed to the appointment of a widely
respected    independent    Securities    Regulation
Commissioner and to assisting SRC and NIC in
institutional strengthening and capacity building.
(c) GOG proposes to support the creation of a sustainable
institution and associated instruments to improve
access to financial services for the rural and
informal sector.
(d) GOG would assist BOG in creating a National Payments
Council to improve the provision of financial services
in all parts of the country and to increase the
efficiency of the financial sector as a whole.
(e) To assist this implementation process, GOG undertakes
to create an Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
Finance, chaired by the Deputy Minister of Finance,
which would be appropriately staffed with people with
experience in private sector NBFI.
12. We trust that this statement of sector strategy is a clear
expression of the direction the Government of Ghana wants to move
in and is consistent with our objectives and strategies under
various programmes already initiated or proposed to be initiated
in cooperation with IDA.  The Non-Bank Financial Institutions
(NBFI) Assistance Project is fully consistent with our long term
commitment to promote private sector-led, sustainable economic
development in Ghana and we request your assistance in securing
its approval at the earliest possible.
R. X.
mINISTEROFF NANCE
MR. PETER WATSON
DIVISION CHIEF,
TRADE, FINANCE AND INVESTMENTS DIVISION
WEST-CENTRAL AFRICA DEPARTMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
1818 H. STREET, NW,
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433
U.S.A.



ANNEX 2: NBFI PROJECT DESIGN MATRIX
Capital Market Institutions                           Contractual Savings Institutions                        Capacity Building and Diagnostic Studies
GSE             SRC    BOG NBFI   NIC                            SIC              GRO            SSNIT               HFC                                  Nati.
Dept.                                                                                              MOF/ICAG/  Payments
_______         _______  ________                    U of Ghana    Conc/BOG
Legislative                     Securities Law    NBFI Law         tei'i5to  of                                                      Home Finance                 U           eof      Ghan
Reform                             1993            1993                                                                           Companies Law                       Enst-E   l.a.-
1993                              e      d
Regulatory                                                                                                                          NBFI Law, 1993
ReforT                                                                 .. ......
Organization                      Sc resource      me resource -.   .t ..d ... ....ig
Structuring                                                       ...... . a   .ir,m,  ...... .tio  rgw ...tw...
BuilDing      ffivestiur _                                _     iJflVI5        . g; ::..echnical needs of  tructttre of MDP                                                  Coit. ...... .of.
DIvestituren...........
arket...: .                                                                                                .                          .. ......
~~~~~~~~~~~,.,.   .. ...                                 ...   ...   ... ., -. ..                                               .
r 'toduct       pI2  efiunJ
Key: Shaded boxes represent components covered by the NBFI Assistance Project                                                                                                               :1
NI: needs have been identified by beneficiaries   AD: Actions defined for technical assistance    TBD: Actions needed are yet to be defined                     o 
........ ...~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
.....    ...........                                                        ... ....  ..9  W&W         d                     ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~
......... . .... .......          ... ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  I



ANNEX 3: LINKAGES OF NBFI PROJECT WITH OTHER BANK PROJECTS
Other Bank Projects                        NBFI Project
Privatization                  PSAC: Agreement on the schedule for          NBFI Project: Support for a new
privatization of State Owned Enterprises (SOE)    financial instrument, the Privatization
under the Divestiture Program (privatization and    Trust, and technical advice for
liquidation).                               strengthening the role of GSE in public
listing of SOE to be privatized. Support
PETA: Broad support for Divestiture         for implementation of the divestiture
Implementation Committee and State Enterprise    plans for SIC and GRO.
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ Commission  to implement the PSAC  program.  _________________
Securities Market              PEED: Long Term Debt (LTD) study providing    NBFI Project: Institution building,
support for development of the LTD securities  building local capacity and market
market.                                      development for the securities industry
including support for implementation of
LTD Report.
Capacity Building              FINSAC II: Training for Institute of Chartered  NBFI Project: Continuation of support
Accountants of Ghana (Completed) and training    provided under FINSAC II for both
for National Insurance Commission (under     ICAG and NIC.
implementation).
Payments System                FINSAC II: BOG computerization plan          NBFI Project: Establishing
PEED: SWIFT System for improvements in      infrastructure for financial institutions
international payments.                     (including BOG, the banks, GSE), IRS,
CEPS and GOG treasury to improve
domestic payments system mechansm.
PSAC: Private Sector Adjustment Credit
PETA: Public Enterprise Technical Assistance Project
PEED: Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
FINSAC II: Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
0 W
Fh



-34-                            ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX 4: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A detailed description of each component is provided below.
1.    Ghana Stock Exchange. GSE is the most important capital market institution. It
is still in the early stages of development. It has only 18 listed companies, trading
volumes are small and the market is shallow. Retums on the stock exchange which were
high between 1992 and 1994, have moderated in 1995 showing that the market is
becoming more mature. However, increases in the number of listings, market
capitalization and turnover are indicative of the continued interest in tradable assets and
securities. While GSE is not fully self-sustaining at this point, focused effort is required
to increase the demand for listed securities from investors and to increase the listing of
securities by issuers to enable it to achieve self-sufficiency.
2.    Support would be provided to GSE for: (a) Institution Building, through
establishment of a clearing and settlement system and a share depository system;
improvements in operational efficiency through procurement of computers and
accessories; and, advice on issue and trading of equity securities and establishing linkages
with other stock exchanges in Africa to increase depth and liquidity; (b) Building Local
Capacity through strengthening of the existing training program at GSE; and (c) Market
and Product Development through support for expanded distribution of securities through
education campaigns aimed at increasing awareness and understanding of the role of
securities markets, and training for other financial institutions in the distribution of
securities.
3.    Securities Regulatory Commission. SRC has been legislated to supervise and
regulate the securities market, but has not yet been established. Support to SRC would be
provided for: regulatory reforms, strengthening of regulatory and supervisory capacity;
organization structuring; institutional strengthening including procurement of computers
and communication equipment; and capacity building for SRC staff.
4.    Bank of Ghana's NBFI Department. Support would be provided to the NBFI
Department of BOG for: a comprehensive review of various legislation and regulatory
issues concerning NBFI including the framing of prudential regulations for various
categories of NBFI; strengthening of regulatory and supervisory capacity; organization
structuring; institutional strengthening including procurement of computers and other
equipment and building local capacity.
5.    National Insurance Commission. Regulation, supervision, and licensing in the
insurance industry is the responsibility of the NIC. However, NIC has not been able to
provide adequate regulation and supervision for the industry due to shortage of financial
resources, office space, and qualified professional staff. With assistance from the
industry, NIC has located acceptable premises and hopes to employ additional staff to
enhance its operations. Under this Credit, support to NIC will be provided for: revising



- 35 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4
the Insurance Law, 1989, the Reinsurance Law, 1990, and other legislation affecting the
insurance industry; strengthening regulatory capacity, creating a framework for regulation
and prudential supervision, data collection and evaluation; designing and implementing
an organizational structuring plan; institution building through procurement of computers
and accessories and creation of a database on market risk profile for use by the insurance
industry; and capacity building for NIC staff.
6.    The insurance industry in Ghana consists of one large corporation, the SIC, two
medium sized private companies, several small companies, and one state-owned
reinsurance organization, GRO. SIC dominates the industry (with nearly two-thirds of
the total market) on the basis of a monopoly on all GOG and SOE businesses (which
accounts for nearly 40 percent of the industry premiums). GRO enjoys a monopoly with
an obligatory legal cession of 20 percent on every insurance policy written.
7.    State Insurance Corporation. SIC is to be restructured with special emphasis on
new product development, more aggressive marketing and quick response to clients prior
to divestiture, expected by 1998. Necessary support would be provided to prepare SIC
for divestiture after canceling monopolies in its favor and converting it into a limited
liability company through the following: design and implementation of organizational
restructuring plan; institution building through upgrading technical operations in SIC's
underwriting department; building local capacity through technical, managerial and
product development training, and development of new products in the life and non-life
businesses to respond to the demand for insurance and reinsurance products in the
country. In the event SIC is privatized before the expected date, GOG, in consultation
with IDA, may reallocate the funds for the local capacity building, market and product
development components to one of the other beneficiaries under the project
8.    Ghana Reinsurance Organization. Under GOG's divestiture plan, GRO is
expected to be divested by 1998 after removing the monopoly in its favor and converting
it into a limited liability company. To ensure long term sustainability in a liberalized
industry environment, GRO plans to diversify its products and undertake a skills
enrichment program. Support to GRO would be provided for institution building through
upgrading technical operations; building local capacity through training of GRO staff and
twinning arrangements; preparing GRO for divestiture; and developing new markets and
instruments. In the event GRO is privatized before the expected date, GOG, in
consultation with IDA, may reallocate the funds for the local capacity building, market
and product development components to one of the other beneficiaries under the project.
9.    Social Security and National Insurance Trust. SSNIT, which is a statutory
body governed by the Social Security Law, 1991, has administered the social security
plan since it was restructured in 1991. It collects social security contributions and makes
payments under three main benefits: (a) old age pension; (b) disability pension; and
(c) lumpsum survivors benefit. It operates a partially-funded, defined-benefit scheme to
which all establishments (except the armed forces which is exempt and self-employed
individuals whose participation is voluntary) are required to contribute a total of 17.5



-36-                              ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
percent of the salary of every employee (5 percent by the employee and 12.5 percent by
the employer). SSNIT is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by GOG according
to the provisions of the Social Security Law, 1991. SSNIT's net assets, as of December
31, 1994, was Cedi 297 billion and income for the year 1994 was Cedi I I I billion,
making it the largest NBFI and the second largest financial institution in the country
(after Ghana Commercial Bank). As the single largest investor in Ghana, SSNIT plays a
very important role in stimulating the development of the capital markets and in
providing long-term finance to the Ghanaian economy.
10.   Under this Credit support would be provided to SSNIT for the following: building
local capacity through overseas training in investment management and improvement in
actuarial skills; and market and product development through provision for SSNIT to
exchange experiences and know-how through a twinning arrangement or through the use
of consultants experienced in the design and operation of social security and pension fund
schemes for workers in the small and informal sectors.
11.   Associated Infrastructure and Capacity Building. One of the key objectives of
the project is the creation of local capacity to enable the non-bank financial sector in
Ghana to develop the skills-base required to sustain its projected growth. Capacity
building is necessary at three different levels. Firstly, the foundation of skills
development is at the undergraduate and graduate levels, where greater exposure must be
provided to concepts relating to the non-bank financial sector. Secondly, there should be
opportunities to build on the above foundation with formal, professional training in
various sub-sectors of the non-bank financial sector, for instance, similar to the activities
of the Institute of Bankers in Ghana in the banking sector. Thirdly, there is need for skills
upgradation for professionals already working in the non-bank financial sector.
12.   To support capacity building at these three levels, the project would provide
technical assistance and institutional support for: (a) GSE's in-house training facility in
the form of training material and equipment; (b) SIC's training center for its strengthening
as a center for the entire insurance industry; (c) HFC for the capacity building and
institutional strengthening through twinning arrangements; (d) School of Administration
at the University of Ghana in the form of equipment, training material, and trainers for
financial sector issues; (e) institution building support for ICAG; and (f) a diagnostic
review by MOF to design a sustainable structure for the Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI).
13.   Payments Systems. The Ghanaian payments system is highly cash dominant.
During lfie past 5 years the C/M2 ratio has risen from 28 percent to 38 percent. Currency
in circulation has grown 4 times in the past 4 years. The impact of this cash dominance is
that it prevents rapid financial deepening, proves costly to the economy, makes monetary
management less effective, impedes tax compliance, and proves risky and highly
inconvenient to the public at large. To modernize the domestic payments system and
leverage it for greater efficiency and competitiveness in the financial sector, support will
be provided to the proposed National Payments Council, led by BOG and comprising



37                               ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
major payments services providers for establishing a financial data communications
network, a real-time gross settlement system for high-value funds transfer.
computerization of clearing houses and capacity building by way of training. Support
will also be provided to BOG for a preparatory study of the payments system and postal
giro system studies and a review of related legislative and regulatory issues. The
payments system study would examine, among other things, proposals for cost-effective
optimization of the availability of cash and security for users keeping in mind the very
high usage of cash in Ghana.
14.   MOF. The project would provide technical assistance to MOF for product and
market development in the following three areas. First, it would support the creation of a
Privatization Trust (PT) to assist the accelerated divestiture program. Second, it would
support a detailed review of the issues related to the provision of financial services. both
savings and credit to the informal, small-scale and rural sectors. The methodology of this
review would be: (a) to collate and recap the substantial amount of literature that is
already available on this subject in Ghana and at the Bank; (b) to assess the needs of
target groups and institutions for access to savings and credit some of which have been
identified below; (c) to analyze some of the internationally acclaimed success stories of
institutions (such as BKK in Indonesia, Grameen Bank in Bangladesh and other examples
from Thailand, India, Brazil and Latin America) which have demonstrated the ability to
reach significant numbers of people who traditionally hadve the least access to financial
services, i.e., savings and credit; and (d) to use the above reviews to investigate the
feasibility of adapting one of these successful institutions to the Ghanaian environment
on a pilot basis. This Credit would provide technical assistance for the diagnostic review
and for the design of the pilot program. It would also provide technical assistance for the
follow-on pilot initiative based on the design recommended by the diagnostic studies.
This component would be coordinated on a day-to-day basis by an advisor to be
appointed at MOF for two years under the guidance of the Financial Sector Oversight
Committee in Ghana. The Bank's Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest would also
participate in this component by providing technical support for the diagnostic review
and the follow-on pilot program. Third, the project would also provide support to MOF.
the implementing agency for the project. to establish a PCT to monitor and coordinate
project implementation.



-38-                                 ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 5. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: IMPLICATIONS FOR GROWTH
I.     Formal financial savings in Ghana account for less than one fourth of total savings, and
much of the remainder is stored in real assets or in informal financial institutions. There is only
little evidence of mutual cooperation between the formal and informal financial sectors,
suggesting that the financial system has not yet reached the state where marginal rates of return
on investments are equalized across the entire financial system. Nor is there evidence of an
active curb market that could substitute for the formal financial system and provide efficient
financing. The intermediation function in the informal sector appears to be limited, which tums
savers into involuntary investors while potential investors are starved for funds. This analysis
suggests that private investments financed through the formal sector have, on average, a higher
rate of return than those financed through the informal sector.
2.     Under these circumstances, the formal financial sector could gain substantially by
increasing domestic resource mobilization by encouraging the expansion of the deposit base and
increased lending. This report, however, has identified a number of obstacles (such as the
dominance of state-owned enterprises, which limits competition, and the people's lack of
confidence in the fomial financial system) in the path of market growth.
3.     It is assumed here that actions can be taken to improve domestic resource mobilization
enhancing financial intermediation and that financial intermnediation will help divert savings
from lower-return investments in the informal sector into higher-return private investments in
the formal sector. In addition, the projected drop in the fiscal deficit, and with it, the decline in
govenmment borrowing requirements, makes this plausible. Until the financial system reaches a
market-clearing equilibrium, however, the projected increases in the rate of growth may only be
transitory. However, while it is not clear that enhanced financial intermediation necessarily
increases the long-run rate of growth of the economy, such an impact seems likely.
Implications for Growth
4.     In this section, it is assumed that only one fourth of Ghana's total savings enter the
formal financial system. It is further assumed that the real rate of return on savings
intermediated through the financial system is 4 percent. Savings outside the system earn a real
rate of return of either 4 percent or 0 percent, for a simple average of 2 percent. With these
relative rates and proportions, the average real rate of return economy-wide would be 2.5
percent. Assuming the marginal rate of return on capital does not change, if some savings held
outside the formal financial system are brought inside, the average return will rise to the extent
that the composition of new investments is shifted toward higher-return projects.2 (For the
purposes of this analysis it is assumed that the increase in savings channeled through the formal
Ghana Financial Sector Report (GH- -13423, dated December 29, 1994), Chapter 9
2    Assuming that the marginal rate of return on investments financed through the formal financial system would decline as
more savings are channeled through the financial system, more nonfinancial savings would need to be brought into the
financial system to achieve the same level of economic growth rates.



39                                  ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
system would occur over a five-year period, beginning in 1996. Over that absorption period.
growth rates would be boosted and then return to normal levels for the long tern.)
5.     Table 1 offers three possible scenarios should financial intermediation be increased.
Assessing what share of existing nonfinancial savings needs to come into the formal financial
system to raise cumulative economic growth rates for five years, it shows that absorption of 16
percent of outside savings would increase the economy's real rate of growth by one percentage
point over five years, while absorption of 33 percent of outside savings would increase the
growth rate by two percentage points.
Implications for the Financial Sector
6.     Table I also provides a starting point for analyzing the impact of increased
intennediation on the financial sector. As shown, a posited absorption of 16 percent of outside
3
savings would entail a 50 percent rise in the inflow of savings into the financial system.
Table 1. Impact of Enhanced Financial Intermediation - Three Scenarios
(Percentage)
Share of existing
nonfinancial     Increase in
savings brought    growth rate    Improvement in      Increase in
into the financial    of financial  efficiency of     economic
Scenario       system           savings         investment       growth rates
1             16               50                10              1.0
2             33              100                20              2.0
3             42              150               25               2.5
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
7.     The implications of greater intermediation for the financial depth of the system can be
seen in an analysis of M2 as a share of GDP (Table 2). Assuming that any increase in financial
savings would go into banks as time or savings deposits, the proportion of M2 to GDP would
increase. The projections assume a reduction in Ghana's fiscal deficit which would result in a
50 percent increase in financial savings over the five-year period. Based on this estimate, the
M2/GDP ratio would be around 30 percent in 2000.
Table 2. Impact of Increased Mediation on M2/GDP, 1995-2000
(Percentage)
Financial savings             1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000
Little change (base run)      17.3   16.8   16.8   17.8   19.7   22.4
50 percent increase by 2000   17.3   17.1   17.8   19.6  22.8   27.5
(relative to base run)
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
3    This projection is based on the assumption that one fourth of actual savings are kept "inside" the financial system. and
three fourths "outside."



-40-                                  ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
8.     Building further on these projections. growing financial savings and a shrinking
goverrnent deficit should increase the volume of credit available for private investment (Table
3). The analysis suggests that this growth in private sector credit could be as much as 16
percent a year for the next five years in real terms, simply from the decline in the fiscal deficit.
Should financial savings also be increased by 50 percent, the annual growth rate of private
sector credit could amount to 20 percent. Such increases would promote substantial private
sector growth.
Table 3. Implied Impact of Deficit Reduction on Private Sector Credit
GDP share of      Compound
Credita to     private sector       annual
private sectorb      credit        growth rateC
Financial savings                (cedi billion)    (percentage)     (percentage)
No change                           885.8              6.8              15.9
50 percent increase by 2000        1,053.2             8.1              20.4
a Credit to private sector is estimated by deducting cash holdings and BOG Reserves Bill holdings
from total deposits.
b Current prices.
c Real terms.
Source: World Bank staff estimates.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 23606
2                                   I                                   S
BURKINA FASO                                                                  macemL,~
o                                    6~~~ao         .1 ~~Ch1(
B`----OLGATANGAI
S                          I       ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
S~Ib
-  ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ Oc~~~~sF;ego                                        TE-.    RIMARY ROADS
- ------ (TAMALE                                        -ozu                           RAILWAYS
z                0.~~~(1  REGIOrN HEADQJARTERS
-.oche    Boe' DOOoo                                                        Ch.b,,hig,-                                                  NATBRNALONAPIALU      ARE
REGION BOUNDARIES
CbTE~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                              The bo,,dor,e-, ce/or,,
B ~~~/                   ul     Ecoge  ~~~~~~~~~                   '~~~.Ko4        o~I,ther;   mop   do   cot
D'IVOIRE                                                                                             -\Sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --Bec   -6iply, o,, the  port of
Ch d5                                 The World  B-ck  Groep,
' N '                    Skp.                     0Cc 00                    *..'        BO~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,y pdg-t~' o- the lego1
~ ~~~~~2                                                                                        ero~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt's  of coy  territor,Y
Bec-,', a,or   emd'                                                                                                              -    ,
-,  >    -~~~~~~~Prorg                                  00                 or~~~~~~~~occepta,,ce of -ch
Eon
I  /   -                      ciehcou                                                             0   I Cbb~  1 Sr    0'     1. E-i
kI  As   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                
<I 
A-- 0,                                                                 A SS;NT
Ocioc          UPOAS ~.                                                                           6Ne                              roo
Aoos<  N          ~~Ob,e;j         B-floyedm                     tNIilj                          2    1 i %          %
*'N'r~~~~~~~~~  <                         --                     (RA~~~~~~~~~-
Mceiche                    m-~~~~'  CAP~E COAST                                              SE,,Go,\                             GI'              rA
N,  r"                                                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TEG-I   Z
LEONE    /  (  "'     INE
3-                                   2'                                    .o,









~~~~-~~ ~)   1.; : -9 d- A.  .                          n
j-     ;".i-
lLNI    vP4`iIlw



