Report No. PIC1901
Project Name                     Ghana-Non-Bank Financial Institutions...
Technical Assistance Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       GH-PA-943
Borrower                         Government of Ghana
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
PO Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Date this PID prepared           March 26, 1997
Credit Appraisal Date            June 1995
Credit Board Date                December 5, 1995
Credit Effectiveness Date        August 17, 1996
1.      Country/Sector Background. Compared to other West African
countries, Ghana once enjoyed a relatively high standard of living,
but poor economic management during the 1970s and the early 1980s
led to a prolonged economic downturn. As a result, the Government
introduced an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983 in order to:
(a) restore and sustain macroeconomic stability; (b) improve the
efficiency of public sector resource management; and (c) create an
incentive framework to enhance efficiency, encourage savings and
investment, and provide an enabling environment for private sector
development.
2.      Ghana has achieved significant economic progress in the last
ten years as a result of the broad-based adjustment strategy
adopted under the ERP. However, there is concern that the economy's
growth performance have fallen short of expectations. This is, in
part, due to the fact that Ghana has not yet achieved much success
in the mobilization and allocation of domestic and foreign private
capital, which are key factors in stimulating private sector-led
growth.
3.      Firstly, on the domestic front, both gross domestic savings
(GDS) and gross domestic investment (GDI) as proportions of GDP
have fallen below 10 percent since 1980, much lower than in the
developing countries in Asia. However, household survey data show
that significant amounts of household savings (about 10 percent to
15 percent of GDP) are held in the form of non-financial assets,
which results in an inefficient use of scarce savings. Also, the
formal financial sector has been unable to mobilize adequate
amounts of equity and medium- to long-term financing. The recently
completed Ghana Financial Sector Report concludes that one factor
that has contributed significantly to the low formal savings and
investment rates is poor financial intermediation in the economy.
Ghana also lacks an efficient domestic payments system necessary to
provide fast and convenient transactions to the entire financial



system. Despite improvements in the banking industry, the creation
of effective institutions to intermediate financial flows between
domestic savers and investors has been hampered by the weakness of
non-bank financial institutions (NBFI). These NBFI often play very
important roles in increasing the mobilization of savings,
particularly the term savings necessary to promote equity and term
financing. Since Ghana has been achieving significant progress
under the broad macroeconomic and banking sector reform programs,
it is now necessary for it to turn its attention to the development
of a competitive, efficient and well supervised non-bank financial
sector to improve the mobilization of domestic capital, which in
turn would encourage increased savings mobilization from the formal
and informal sectors.
4.      Secondly, in an era where it is increasingly desirable for
declining official flows to be replaced by private flows, the
economy has begun to attract interest from both direct and
portfolio foreign investors and from the large number of Ghanaian
residents abroad. This is evident from the success of the local and
foreign portions of Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC) share
issues and the sale of GOG minority holdings to foreign portfolio
investors. Yet, Ghana lacks the well developed institutional
infrastructure necessary to take advantage of these developments to
build true "emerging market" status for its economy. Ghana must now
seek to develop the institutions, instruments and incentives
necessary to attract sustainable foreign private investment flows
into its economy.
5.      The Ghana Financial Sector Report concluded that effective
financial intermediation will require: (a) the promotion of greater
competition and more innovation in the sector (involving
divestiture and well supervised entry and exit); (b) the
strengthening of the financial and legal infrastructure (including
human resource development, better payments system, especially cash
management, and improved information on enforcement of contracts);
and (c) the integration of the formal and informal financial
sectors. While previous IDA operations have gone a long way in
addressing problems in the banking sector, improving their
financial infrastructure, and promoting competition in the banking
industry, issues related to the non-bank financial sector have not
been explicitly addressed until now.
6.      The Bank's involvement in Ghana's financial sector started in
1987. It has focused primarily on strengthening BOG and building
stronger banking institutions at the core of a more responsive
banking system. The two Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (FINSAC
I, 1988, and FINSAC II, 1991) have supported the development of the
banking sector by improving the regulatory framework, building
capacity at BOG, restructuring distressed banks, and divesting
public ownership in banks. In addition, the Small and Medium
Enterprises and Rural Finance Credits have dealt with some issues
related to informal and rural finance institutions. The next step,
which is the focus of this Credit, is to strengthen NBFI and some
associated financial infrastructure, by building on initiatives
such as the promulgation of the NBFI Law, 1993 (which deals with
- 2 -



nine specific categories of NBFI such as mortgage finance
institutions, finance companies, savings and loans, etc.) and the
revision of the Securities Industry Law, 1993.
7.      Currently, the non-bank financial sector in Ghana is small,
contributing only about 24 percent of the total financial assets in
the country, with 11 percent in the government-owned Social
Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) and 4 percent on the
stock exchange. As a comparison, in South Korea, NBFI accounted for
61 percent of total financial assets in 1992, up from 49 percent in
1987. Though the non-bank financial sector is diverse, apart from
SSNIT, the other NBFI are small and do not appear to be developing
as expected. The Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) has only 18 companies
listed, but is expected to benefit from the excellent response to
the recent privatization of AGC and seven other companies in which
GOG has minority interests. There are 16 insurance companies but
the industry is dominated by two state-owned firms. Other NBFI
include five recently established merchant banks, the Home Finance
Company (HFC), building societies, one unit trust, one venture
capital company, two discount houses, and three leasing companies.
Except for SSNIT and HFC (which follow commercial management
practices) and two major insurance sector institutions, other NBFI
are privately owned. With appropriate technical support, these NBFI
could be strengthened to make financial intermediation more
effective so that this sector can realize its potential for
mobilizing and investing the capital required to generate higher
growth in the economy.
8.      Credit Objectives. The proposed credit has two objectives.
The first is to promote the growth of an efficient, competitive,
well regulated, non-bank financial sector and an efficient payments
system in order to: (a) increase the mobilization of domestic
savings in both formal and informal sectors; (b) facilitate the
flow of international capital into Ghana through better financial
intermediation; and (c) supply financial services competitively to
the economy. The second is to create an environment conducive to
greater private sector activity and support the successful
implementation of the divestiture program for state-owned
enterprises (SOE) and the three largest state-owned commercial
banks.
9.      Credit Description: The Credit addresses identified gaps in
the non-bank financial sector including: Capital Markets
Institutions such as GSE, Securities Regulatory Commission (SRC),
and BOG, and Contractual Savings Institutions such as National
Insurance Commission (NIC), State Insurance Corporation (SIC),
Ghana Reinsurance Organization (GRO), and SSNIT. The Credit also
provides for Associated Financial Infrastructure (domestic payments
system) and Capacity Building in the NBFI sector through the School
of Administration at the University of Ghana, the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Ghana (ICAG) and HFC, and Diagnostic
Studies at MOF to enable GOG to prepare strategies for future
actions in expanding the provision of financial services to rural
and informal sectors.
-3-



10.     Ghana Stock Exchange. Support to GSE is being provided for:
(a) Institution Building, through establishment of a clearing and
settlement system and a share depository system; improvements in
operational efficiency through procurement of computers and
accessories; and, advice on issue and trading of equity securities
and establishing linkages with other stock exchanges in Africa to
increase depth and liquidity; (b) Building Local Capacity through
strengthening of the existing training program at GSE; and (c)
Market and Product Development through support for expanded
distribution of securities through education campaigns aimed at
increasing awareness and understanding of the role of securities
markets, and training for other financial institutions in the
distribution of securities.
11.     Securities Regulatory Commission. SRC has been legislated to
supervise and regulate the securities market, but has not yet been
established. Support to SRC is being provided for: regulatory
reforms, strengthening of regulatory and supervisory capacity;
organization structuring; institutional strengthening including
procurement of computers and communication equipment; and capacity
building for SRC staff.
12.     Bank of Ghana's NBFI Department. Support to the NBFI
Department of BOG is being provided for: a comprehensive review of
various legislation and regulatory issues concerning NBFI including
the framing of prudential regulations for various categories of
NBFI; strengthening of regulatory and supervisory capacity;
organization structuring; institutional strengthening including
procurement of computers and other equipment and building local
capacity.
13.     National Insurance Commission. Regulation, supervision, and
licensing in the insurance industry is the responsibility of the
NIC. Under this Credit, support to NIC is being provided for:
revising the Insurance Law, 1989, the Reinsurance Law, 1990, and
other legislation affecting the insurance industry; strengthening
regulatory capacity, creating a framework for regulation and
prudential supervision, data collection and evaluation; designing
and implementing an organizational structuring plan; institution
building through procurement of computers and accessories and
creation of a database on market risk profile for use by the
insurance industry; and capacity building for NIC staff.
14.     State Insurance Corporation. SIC is to be restructured with
special emphasis on new product development, more aggressive
marketing and quick response to clients prior to divestiture,
expected by 1998. Necessary support under the Credit is being
provided to prepare SIC for divestiture after canceling monopolies
in its favor and converting it into a limited liability company
through the following: design and implementation of organizational
restructuring plan; institution building through upgrading
technical operations in SIC's underwriting department; building
local capacity through technical, managerial and product
development training, and development of new products in the life
and non-life businesses to respond to the demand for insurance and
- 4 -



reinsurance products in the country. In the event SIC is privatized
before the expected date, GOG, in consultation with IDA, may
reallocate the funds for the local capacity building, market and
product development components to one of the other beneficiaries
under the Credit
15.     Ghana Reinsurance Organization. Under GOG's divestiture plan,
GRO is expected to be divested by 1998 after removing the monopoly
in its favor and converting it into a limited liability company. To
ensure long term sustainability in a liberalized industry
environment, GRO plans to diversify its products and undertake a
skills enrichment program. Support to GRO is being provided for
institution building through upgrading technical operations;
building local capacity through training of GRO staff and twinning
arrangements; preparing GRO for divestiture; and developing new
markets and instruments. In the event GRO is privatized before the
expected date, GOG, in consultation with IDA, may reallocate the
funds for the local capacity building, market and product
development components to one of the other beneficiaries under the
Credit.
16.     Social Security and National Insurance Trust. SSNIT, which is
a statutory body governed by the Social Security Law, 1991, has
administered the social security plan since it was restructured in
1991. Under this Credit support to SSNIT is being provided for the
following: building local capacity through overseas training in
investment management and improvement in actuarial skills; and
market and product development through provision for SSNIT to
exchange experiences and know-how through a twinning arrangement or
through the use of consultants experienced in the design and
operation of social security and pension fund schemes for workers
in the small and informal sectors.
17.     Associated Infrastructure and Capacity Building. One of the
key objectives of the Credit is the creation of local capacity to
enable the non-bank financial sector in Ghana to develop the
skills-base required to sustain its projected growth. To support
capacity building, the Credit is providing technical assistance and
institutional support for: (a) GSE's in-house training facility in
the form of training material and equipment; (b) SIC's training
center for its strengthening as a center for the entire insurance
industry; (c) HFC for the capacity building and institutional
strengthening through twinning arrangements; (d) School of
Administration at the University of Ghana in the form of equipment,
training material, and trainers for financial sector issues; (e)
institution building support for ICAG; and (f) a diagnostic review
by MOF to design a sustainable structure for the Management
Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI).
18.     Payments Systems. To modernize the domestic payments system
and leverage it for greater efficiency and competitiveness in the
financial sector, support is being provided to the newly
established National Payments Council, led by BOG and comprising
major payments services providers for establishing a financial data
communications network, a real-time gross settlement system for
- 5 -



high-value funds transfer, computerization of clearing houses and
capacity building by way of training. Support is also being
provided to BOG for a preparatory study of the payments system and
postal giro system studies and a review of related legislative and
regulatory issues. The payments system study examines, among other
things, proposals for cost-effective optimization of the
availability of cash and security for users keeping in mind the
very high usage of cash in Ghana.
19.     MOF. The Credit is providing technical assistance to MOF for
product and market development in the following two areas. First,
creation of a Privatization Trust (PT) to assist the accelerated
divestiture program. Second, a detailed review of microfinance
issues, those related to the provision of financial services, both
savings and credit to the informal, small-scale and rural sectors.
20.     Credit Financing: The Credit cost, including contingencies,
is US$24.9 million equivalent. IDA will finance US$23.9 million
equivalent (100 percent of the foreign exchange and 90 percent of
local costs) and the remaining US$1 million will come from the
beneficiaries (US$0.5 million) and GOG (US$0.5 million).
21.     Credit Implementation: MOF is the implementing agency for
this Credit. For this purpose, a Project Coordinating and
Implementation Team (PCT) consisting of an advisor with experience
in private sector NBFI and one support staff, has been established
at MOF under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Finance.
Each beneficiary has appointed a representative to PCT to assist in
Credit administration and implementation. While each beneficiary
has the primary responsibility for the implementation of its own
components, the PCT is responsible for coordinating and monitoring
the implementation of the Credit, and for reporting to IDA as
defined in the draft Project Implementation Manual.
22.     Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement: The experience
with financial sector technical assistance Credits in Africa has
been mixed. Inability to generate higher growth and to improve
mobilization of savings have been attributed to: (a) the
macroeconomic policy framework being significantly off-track, as
well as unfavorable sector specific conditions (e.g., credit
controls, fixed interest rates, etc.); (b) the lack of government
ownership and beneficiary participation in Credit design and
absence of political commitment to reforms which could also result
in slow disbursement; (c) weak project management capacity; and
(d) lack of supporting financial infrastructure, such as an
efficient payments system, strong institutions, appropriate legal
framework, etc.
23.     Learning from the above, this Credit has been prepared in
close collaboration with all stakeholders, the beneficiaries, GOG,
BOG, and the financial community in Ghana, to ensure the strongest
possible commitment. These stakeholders also participated in the
preparation of the Ghana Financial Sector Report. GOG, in its
Letter of Sector Strategy, has reaffirmed its support for
strengthening and deepening the non-bank financial sector. The
- 6 -



issues of macroeconomic framework and the project management
capacity are addressed in the risks section. Finally, improving the
quality of supporting financial infrastructure is being addressed
under this Credit as well as under other Credits such as FINSAC II
and PEED. The success of recent privatizations, such as Ashanti
Goldfields, and implementation of an ambitious divestiture program
show GOG's commitment to continuing reforms as well as the
potential for significant improvements. The timing for this Credit
is appropriate because GOG has completed significant macroeconomic
reforms and a restructuring of the banking sector and is now
embarked on a comprehensive divestiture program.
24.     Poverty Category: Two components of this Credit, the
technical assistance for expanding provisions of financial services
to informal and rural sectors, and the payments system (postal
giro), contribute to the objective of poverty reduction indirectly.
The components enable traditionally disadvantaged segments of the
population to establish greater access to financial facilities, for
both savings and credit, and thereby to additional opportunities
for income generation. The Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT)
design would help establish better links between rural/semi-urban
areas and the urban centers which would allow better geographical
targeting of vulnerable groups.
25.     Environmental Aspects: The Credit is rated a Category C
Credit as there are no related environmental issues in the Credit.
26.     Program Objective Category: The Credit supports IDA's private
sector development and economic management objectives.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
- 7 -



