Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2718-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FIFTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 28, 1980
Thb documat hu a restricted dibution and my be nsd by reipients only to the performance of
their oiicad dui"s. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed withut World Bank anth,rintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00             =  Rp 625
Rp 100              =  US$0.160
Rp 1 million        =  US$1,600
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS            - Bimbingan Massal-Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan "Mass Guidance
for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input credit
program
DGWRD            - Directorate-General of Water Resources Development
DPP              - Directorate of Planning and Programming, DGWRD
DPPA             - Directorate of Nature Conservation, Directorate General
of Forestry
INMAS            - Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification" - a farm
input program
IPEDA            - Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
O&M              - Operation and Maintenance
PIBD             - Badan Pelaksana Proyek Induk Irigasi Dengan
Bantuan Bank Dunia, "Executive Body for Major Irrigation
Projects with World Bank Assistance"
PROSIDA          - Proyek Irigasi IDA - a special project executive body of
DGWRD created to execute IDA-assisted projects
PROSIJAT         - Project executive body of the Jatiluhur Authority
Paddy            - Unhusked Rice
Secondary Crops - Nonrice staple food crops.
Major ones are maize, soybean, groundnut, vegetables and
tubers
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton paddy (gabah) = 630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FIFTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $45 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description: The proposed project would assist the Government's efforts
to increase rice production and to develop islands other
than Java by completing the partly constructed Kosinggolan
irrigation system on the Dumoga left bank, and constructing
the right bank Toraut irrigation system (together forming
the 11,600 ha Dumoga irrigation scheme) in North Sulawesi.
The project would provide special environmental protection
through creation of a Nature Reserve covering the Dumoga
catchment area. Planning and programming activities of the
Directorate of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) woul.d be
expanded and strengthened, topographic surveys and mapping
improved, and studies, investigations and engineering design
for irrigation supporting the transmigration program and
for further irrigation upgrading on Java would be carried
out. The Dumoga project would create a demand for some
25,000 man-years of labor over the five year construction
period, and would increase rice production by about 46,000
tons per year by 1989. The main risk is a slower build up
of agricultural benefits than projected in the Dumoga
irrigation scheme, but measures to minimize this risk are
included in the proposed project. The other project
components - the strengthening of planning and programming
activities in DGWRD and studies and investigations bear low
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: The following table summarizes estimated project costs./a
Local   Foreign   Total
…----- $ million ------
Dumoga irrigation scheme                   17.1      12.5      29.6
Strengthening DGWRD planning
and programming                           4.2       8.0     12.2
Studies and investigations                  3.6       3.8       7.4
Base Cost                                24.9      24.3     49.2
Physical contingencies                      4.3       3.4       7.7
Expected price increases                   10.0       4.2      14.2
Total project cost                         39.2      31.9      71.1
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
------ $ million ------
IDA                            13.5      31.5      45.0
Government                     25.7       0.4/b   26.1
Total                          39.2      31.9      71.1
Estimated
Disbursements: Bank FY       1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
…------------ ($ million) -------------
Annual        0.0    3.4   13.6   13.1    8.6    6.3
Cumulative   0.0    3.4   17.0   30.1   38.7   45.0
Rate of Return:  17% on the Dumoga irrigation scheme which represents
60% of the project's base costs. Other project components
have non-quantifiable returns.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2717a-IND, dated February 12, 1980.
/a Including 5% taxes on civil works contracts.
/b Vehicles provided by Government under reserve procurement.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A FIFTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $45
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fifteenth Irrigation Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Progress
and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
mission recently visited Indonesia and a Country Economic Memorandum is
being prepared.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of 2 million sq km. With
over 135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. Over 82% of the population live in rural areas and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP per capita is
estimated at $360./2
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated,
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertability of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% per annum was achieved. During
Repelita II (1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development Project, (No. P-2696-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980 and approved by the Executive Directors
on February 19, 1980.
/2  1978 figures.  World Bank Atlas, 1979.



- 2 -
$4.0 billion /1 in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to
increase by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate.
Not all sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance
of non-extractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm
oil, has been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated
since 1971, and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of
sustained growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite
increased foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the
economy has been assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial
sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the
economy - an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been
impressive, views diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in
this increased income. The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976
indicate that while overall income disparities almost certainly widened
between those two dates, there was nevertheless a considerable improvement
in the consumption of all income groups, with real consumption expenditure
of the bottom 40% of the population probably increasing at between 3.5% and
5.5% annually. Growth in per capita income was generally higher in Java
than in the Other Islands and higher in urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employ-
ment during this period was absorbed in non-agricultural activities,
resulting from a decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to
62%. Within the non-agricultural sector, employment increases largely
resulted from proliferating small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and
service sectors, where productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster; at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



- 3 -
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in
the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by 1977;
between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and primary
school enrollment is expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in 1974.
Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second Development
Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning Program, estab-
lished in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate to below 2%.
Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% in Java and Bali, where almost 30%
of married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern methods
of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty
problem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public
services remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over
one third of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976
prices and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was
seriously underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the con-
tinued prevalence of numerqus debilitating diseases, which often stem directly
from nutritional deficiencies and insanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate. Life
expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than one
year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the underlying
inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians remain
without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are only six
physicians and six nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40% of the
adult population is illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in Repelita III, the Third Development Plan (1979/80 to 1983/84). Three
primary goals have been specified: a more equitable distribution of the
benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national stability. A high
priority must now be given to the industrial sector since neither agriculture
nor services can be expected to absorb the large projected increases in the
labor force (1.4 million per annum up to the year 2,000) and simultaneously
ensure rising real wage rates.
10.        The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp
415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to reverse
some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had occurred
earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources away from the



- 4 -
non-traded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devaluation, the
Government has also simplified the investment licencing process and exporting
procedures and introduced a system of export certificates - tax rebates to
encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated in March 1979
providing greater incentives to entreprenuers, particularly those in
smaller-scale ventures and those using the services of a public accountant.
On the monetary side, a start has been made in making the commercial banking
system more responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular,
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable, but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term, it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to provide
appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which a genuine
comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is probably less
significant than the high administrative costs and delays associated with
importing. The important improvements made in exporting procedures over the
last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be made in this area.
Similar advances on the import side would improve resource allocation by
reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have little prospect of
ever attaining international competitiveness. In many countries devaluation
has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff structure. Although
this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent increases in oil revenues
have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange reserves, provided an
additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the non-oil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - halve been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



- 5 -
primary commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of
over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase
in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of the rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases,
budget revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in
1978/79 to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private
industrial enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price
and monetary stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example,
in the measures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary
effects of the devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under
control, sometimes tended to counteract the desired effects of the devalu-
ation. Notable here was the tight control exerted over private sector
credit creation which may have limited investment in those export sectors
that the devaluation was designed to encourage. In addition, the increased
foreign exchange revenue presents potentially difficult problems of monetary
management. The manner in which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb
imports effectively will be a primary determinant of Indonesia's future
growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 --
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration are the obvious means of
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resource is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) commitments in
1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the IGGI (including
the Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted for over 90% of this.
The Bank's most recent economic report on Indonesia recommends that total ODA
reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979/80, of which at least 70% should be on
concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of the IGGI in April
1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80 made by bilateral and
multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the meeting therefore
concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approximately met.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
16.       As of December 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 44 IDA credits
totalling $769.8 million, and 45 Bank loans amounting to $2,575.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977
was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of December 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the
rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities,
meeting the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance
needed for pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the
Government's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive
capacity in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as
improvement in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust
of Bank Group lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the criti-
cal importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects has been
in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtu-
ally all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production and
distribution, transportation, education, urban development, water supply,
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development Project, (No. P-2696-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980 and approved by the Executive Directors
on February 19, 1980.



rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small industry development), power, telecommunications, population and
technical assistance.
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Govern-
ment's agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment
opportunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is
primarily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent
labor-intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank
plans to expand significantly its hitherto modest involvement in this
sector. As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support
several indVstrial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank
Indonesia) is at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support
export processing zones and wood processing, and to further expand Bank
assistance to small-scale enterprise are at various stages of identification
and preparation. A comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial
sector is being initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup
for this expanded operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops (para. 26 below). For example, the proposed Second
Agriculture Extension, also being presented to the Executive Directors today,
Second Agriculture Research and Second Seeds projects, will give greater
emphasis to these crops. Continued support for the provision of basic
services (population, education, health, nutrition, urban development and
water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power and transport) is also
anticipated. Since it is clear that the achievement of the Government's
employment and equity objectives will become increasingly dependent on the
development of appropriate sectoral policy packages and strategies,
institutions, and staff development, it is expected that the focus of the
above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector and sector approach.
The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable Bank Group assistance to
be responsive to these demands, and to continue its institution-building
efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is
generally in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank and
the Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of
disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years.
While some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors
towards "newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear
to be related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and



- 8 -
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures.  The first of these reviews was held in early lIarch 1979
and a second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a procurement
seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in September
1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months
the Government announced several measures to streamline the more complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally,
to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now
being presented for Board approval at a later stage in the project cycle. It
is still too early to assess the effect of these steps on project
implementation, but improvements are expected.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of Bank Group subsequent lending has been
through IBRD loans. Although Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings are expec-
ted to increase further as a result of the recent oil price rise, a portion of
Bank Group lending will still be on IDA terms, primarily on the ground of
poverty - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) is well below the IDA cutoff of $625.
Given the uncertainty of the effect of the recent oil price increases on
Indonesia's resource constraints, the issue of IDA lending beyond the current
fiscal year will be kept under regular review. In the past, because of domes-
tic resource constraints, the Bank has financed local costs, particularly in
high priority projects in the rural sector. However, because of the increased
availability of finance following the recent oil price increases, financing of
local costs will be progressively reduced and will only be limited to occa-
sions where it will make a significant contribution to the project.
22.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy dis-
cussed above, constitutes the fifth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date
in FY80 to $317.0 million. Projects for agriculture research, nucleus estates
and smallholders, and power are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next few months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOPR
23.       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricultural
and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the
incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with
rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.



- 9 -
24.        Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of
production, the agricultural sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to
30% since 1968, while its share in total exports dropped from 45% to 33% due
mainly to the markedly increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless,
agriculture still employs 62% of the total labor force (depending on the
season), and about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households rely on it as their major source of income.
25.       Employment.  Although its share of total employment has been
decreasing, agriculture accounted for 46% of incremental employment during
1971-76. Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite
promising, given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, including
that developed by publicly sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. On Java
continued irrigation rehabilitation is expected to generate significant
employment.
26.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
the Government has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit program.
The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77 in the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertilizer
trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by
pests and diseases. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved with better
weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nationwide
Government distribution of pest resistant varieties. Over the past decade,
output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet
potatoes) grew at only a combined annual rate of 1.6%. These gains in food
output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4% p.a. increase in demand, stimu-
lated by rising incomes. Over the decade, Indonesia became the world's
largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and
about 1.3 million tons in 1978. Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4
million tons in 1978. The report "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Major Food
Crops" (Report No. 2374-IND) concluded that even with expanded irrigation
and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food production
growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit of up to at
least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons a year.
27.       Tree Crops.  Tree crop products generate almost half of total
nonoil export revenue. Tree crops occupy about a third of total cropped
land; coconuts and rubber account for 80%. Smallholders cultivate 80% of
the rubber area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper,
whereas tea and oil palm are grown primarily on estates. Past efforts to
revitalize the smallholder tree crop sector were very limited. One new
approach, which is being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders (NES) projects (Loans 1499-, 1604- and 1751-IND), is for
Government-owned estates to plant and maintain rubber and oil palm on



- 10 -
previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers selected to be
settlers as employees, and thereafter to supply the settlers with inputs,
extension, and processing facilities. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, the Government has also initiated national programs
to assist geographically concentrated groups of existing smallholders to
replant rubber or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from
Project Management Units (PMUs).  Attention is now also starting to be gi-ven
to designing a low-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on
management. Given the good market prospects and employment potential for
these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and natural compara-
tive advantage in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using
all suitable approaches, is a high priority.
28.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
The Government is preparing watershed development and integrated development
projects to address this problem.
29.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese and Balinese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by
management problems, the Government reorganized the program in preparation
for Repelita III by transferring implementation responsibility from the
Directorate General (DG) of Transmigration to the appropriate technical
agencies. This measure needs to be complemented by continued attention to a
variety of technical and policy issues, which the Second Transmigration
Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is expected to address.
30.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  Since the first of 13 irrigation
projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural lending. Within the context of the Government's overall agri-
cultural strategy, future Bank Group agricultural lending is expected to focus
on four issues: (a) the production of secondary crops. To develop the
considerable agronomic potential of these crops in Indonesia, the Bank Group
has embarked on a major effort designed to encourage the Government in giving
high priority to this sub-sector. This will be reflected in the Bank Group's
economic and sector work program and the lending program in particular,
through the second phase projects for agricultural research, extension and
seeds; (b) a diversified irrigation program to intensify rice cropping on Java
and to extend water management to the Other Islands. In this sub-sector the
Bank Group will pay special attention to institutional improvements to
increase the Government's capacity to undertake a greater variety and volume
of work and to engage in meaningful sectoral planning; (c) smallholder tree
crop planting programs. Here the Bank Group plans to provide substantial
technical support, through future NES projects, to strengthen Government
institutions, so that eventually a subsector lending approach for NES may
become feasible. In view of the established smallholder tree crop production



- 11 -
(80-90% of total area under tree crops), the Bank is actively pursuing ways to
develop coherent support programs for these traditional producers. Under the
Smallholder Rubber Development Project, recently approved by the Executive
Directors, the feasibility of even lower cost approaches is being explored;
and (d) area development and transmigration. The focus of the Bank Group
efforts here will be, first, to support and closely monitor these complex
projects, and, second, to eventually shift the focus of transmigration away
from fairly narrow resettlement schemes and to place it in the broader context
of development of the Other Islands.
31.       Sector Work.  These agriculture projects have been and will continue
to be complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and
income distribution, irrigation, agriculture support services and food crop
production have been completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector, transmi-
gration program, secondary food crops, land tenure systems ancd supply and
demand for technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are now under
way.
32.       The Irrigation Subsector.  Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in
Indonesia, accounting for about 60% of the area of all major food crops
harvested. In 1978, there were some 8.9 million ha of rice harvested, of
which about 7.7 million ha were irrigated or grown in rainfed paddy fields,
which provide almost 95% of total rice production. Irrigation systems serve
an estimated 5.0 million hectares of land, of which only 2.1 million hectares
have technical irrigation./1
33.       Irrigation development is the responsibility of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), which is within the Ministry
of Public Works. The DGWRD uses the facilities of Provincial Public Works
Offices and, in addition, frequently retains contractors and consultants to
carry out its work. It is organized along functional lines in six Direct-
orates (for example, the Directorates of Irrigation, Rivers and Swamps) and
has about 1,200 professional engineering staff.  In addition to the six
Directorates which carry out the regular DGWRD development program, five
special executive bodies /2 have been established to execute specific
development tasks which are funded from the Government's development budget,
frequently with foreign assistance.
/1  The four classifications used are "technical", "semi-technical", "simple"
and "village". Technical systems have a water supply system separate
from the drainage system and the volume of incoming water can be measured
at several delivery points. Semi-technical systems have fewer permanent
structures, have only one water measuring device (usually at the major
intake) and the supply and drainage systems are not always separate.
Simple systems have no measurement devices and have common irrigation/
drainage facilities. All these are controlled by the Ministry of Public
Works. The remaining "village" systems are constructed, operated and
managed directly by village authorities, usually without professional
engineering advice.
/2  PROSIDA (Proyek Irigasi IDA), PIBD (Proyek Irigasi Bank Dunia), P4S
(Proyek Pengembangon Persawahan Pasang Surut), Jakarta Flood Control
Project and the Brantas River Basin Development.



- 12 -
34.       The Bank Group has now made 13 loans or credits for irrigation,/1
drainage and flood control in Indonesia (totaling $574.5 million), concen-
trating first on the most urgent rehabilitation of existing works and upgrad-
ing of operation and maintenance services and later on improving and expand-
ing irrigation systems and constructing tertiary systems to increase
irrigation efficiency. The first three projects have been completed, and
a project performance audit has been prepared for the first (PPAR dated
February 13, 1978 on Credit 127-IND).  Performance audits are under
preparation for the Second and Third Irrigation Projects (Credits 195-IND
and 220-IND). Conclusions of the PPAR for the First Irrigation Project were
that food crop production increases and economic returns exceeded expecta-
tions, and that the project was an outstanding example of institution-
building.
35.       The rehabilitation of about half of the major irrigation systems
(which cover 2.1 million ha in Java) has been completed or is under way, but
poor drainage, inadequate flood protection and rural roads in many of Java's
irrigation systems continue to depress cropping intensities and yields and
hamper the flow of extension services, agricultural products and inputs.
Recent cultivation and deforestation of the catchments of rivers serving
irrigation systems are accelerating soil erosion, resulting in serious
downstream sedimentation and siltation problems. Additional work on the major
irrigation systems is warranted, and the rather limited potential for
reservoirs and groundwater to expand dry season cropping should be developed
as far as practicable. New gravity irrigation systems and swamp and tidal
land development mostly outside Java offer prospects for increasing rice
production, although short-term economic returns on such investments are
likely to be lower than for rehabilitation of irrigation systems or for
tertiary irrigation construction in Java.
36.       When the Bank Group became involved in Indonesia's irrigation
subsector in 1968, the existing institutional capacity could not, unaided,
have supported the very significant accomplishments in irrigation
rehabilitation and construction over the past few years. In the course of
project work, the Bank Group has played an important supporting role in not
only improving the engineering and management capacity of DGWRD by providing
foreign and local consulting services and training, but also in strength-
ening the capacity of operation and maintenance (O&M) services in the
provinces and in ensuring that increased and timely budgetary support is
directed to O&M. There have been important advances in the local contract-
ing industry and also improvements in local consulting capability. The Bank
Group has worked with the Government in introducing multi-year contracts,
with price escalation provisions, where previously work could be contracted
only on an annual budget basis with no guarantee of continuity of work for
contractors. More attractive mobilization and prompter payment provisions
have also been introduced and an increasing proportion of work is now
awarded to local contractors and consultants.
/1   The Fourteenth Irrigation Project is also being presented to the
Executive Directors simultaneously.



- 13 -
37.       A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program /1 concluded
that, to expand rice production at the same rate as demand (about 4% per
year), the level of annual investment in irrigation should be further
increased by about 20% by the end of the Third Five-Year Development Plan in
1983. Implementation of such an irrigation investment program would demand
further strengthening of DGWRD, especially in planning and project formula-
tion, training, and staff development. DGWRD lacks sufficiently trained
engineers, eonomists and other staff, and relies heavily on consultant
services in project planning and construction supervision. For the next few
years, DGWRD is expected to continue using such consultants in order to
expand investments in irrigation, drainage and flood protection. Training
and staff development needs are being studied with Bank assistance under
the Twelfth Irrigation Project (1645-IND), while strengthening the planning
capacity of DGWRD will be supported under this proposed project. Further
expansion of agricultural support services provided by other Government
agencies will be necessary for successful implementation of the irrigation
program, and the Bank is planning to assist projects for extension,
research, seeds and fertilizer distribution.
38.       Bank Group lending for the Indonesian irrigation program for the
next few years is expected to place roughly equal emphasis on Java and the
Other Islands, while paying increasing attention to institutional
strengthening. The basic problem to expanding irrigation investments is the
lack of sufficient numbers of high caliber DGWRD engineers who are free from
administrative functions to undertake engineering design and construction
supervision; a similar situation exists in project planning and economic
evaluation. A balanced program of investments in irrigation, drainage and
food protection and swamp reclamation will be pursued while measures will be
sought to strengthen DGWRD in project planning, evaluation, implementation
and monitoring to gradually lessen the Bank Group's current heavy
involvement in these aspects. As progress is achieved in these areas, the
Bank will also explore the possibility of eventually moving towards a sector
lending approach; it is expected that a broader involvement will permit a
more effective consideration of the critical issues in this subsector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project would comprise construction of the Dumoga irrigation
scheme in North Sulawesi (including the completion of the partly constructed
Kosinggolan system and construction of the adjacent Toraut system); an
institutional support package for the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD); and studies and investigations for irrigation development
on existing and potential transmigration sites in the Other Islands, and for
further irrigation rehabilitation and upgrading in Java. The project was
/1 Irrigation Program Review Report No. 2027-IND, October 1978.



- 14 -
appraised in June and October 1979, and a Staff Appraisal Report (No.
2717a-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III. The negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
January 14 to 30, 1980. Mr. Oesman Djojoadinoto, Assistant Director General,
Water Resources Development, Ministry of Public Works, led the Government
delegation.
40.       Feasibility studies for the Dumoga project were prepared by DGWRD,
with foreign consultant assistance (Binnie and Partners, UK) funded by the UK
Government and by the Bank Group under the Tenth Irrigation Project (Ln. 1578-
IND). The institutional support program was identified by DGWRD and IDA
staff, and prepared by the DGWRD Directorate of Planning and Programming with
foreign consultant assistance provided by the UK Government.
41.       The Association's appraisal of the project included the Panti-Rao
irrigation system in West Sumatra. The Panti-Rao system was designed by
DGWRD, and designs and feasibility were reviewed by foreign consultants
(SINOTEC1) engaged by DGWRD under the Ninth Irrigation Project (Loan 1435-
IND). Kreditanstalt fur Weideraufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of Germany
has informed the Government that subject to the Association's findings, it
would provide separate financial assistance of about $26 million for the
Panti-Rao system, and would conclude its own financing, disbursement and
procurement agreements with the Government. Consequently, the Panti-Rao
component was taken out of the scope of the proposed project.
Features of the Project
42.       The recent settlement of the Dumoga valley has accelerated since the
establishment of three transmigration villages, and completion in 1978/79 of a
highway connecting the valley with Menado the provincial capital city. IDA
assistance was provided for the highway (Credit 388-IND). The Dumoga irriga-
tion scheme would complete a right bank system (Kosinggolan) already largely
constructed with UK assistance, and construct a new left bank system (Toraut).
Completion of the Kosinggolan system would provide irrigation for about
5,000 ha. Additional work on the system would include canal construction
involving improving embankments, cutting rock outcrops, and furnishing check
gates, additional drainage structures and bridges; construction of tertiary
and quaternary canals, drains and structures (including completion of those
partially constructed for 400 ha); and construction of inspection roads.
Construction of the Toraut system to serve about 6,600 ha on the left side of
the valley would involve a diversion weir, sluices and gated canal headworks;
about 24 km of unlined main canal, 11 secondary canals with a total length of
about 32.5 km; tertiary and quaternary canals, drains and structures for the
entire service area; and gravel inspection roads and a bridge over the Dumoga
River. In addition, agricultural support services would be upgraded and a
Nature Reserve would be created to protect the Dumoga watershed.
43.       The institutional support package would strengthen the Directorate
of Planning and Programming (DPP) of DGWRD. Over the five years of the Third
Planning Period Repelita III (1979-83) the Government intends to rehabilitate



- 15 -
one million ha of existing irrigation systems, to construct about 0.7 million
ha of new irrigation systems, construct about 2.0 million ha of tertiary
systems in existing irrigation schemes, to reclaim about 0.5 million ha of
swamps, and to improve flood protection by improving rivers presently
adversely affecting about 0.7 million ha. The program makes great demands on
the planning, programming and surveying capacity of DGWRD which is already
understaffed and lacking facilities and training. Except for projects
receiving foreign assistance, economic analysis and the translation of invest-
ment priorities into the annual budget is seldom applied to the irrigation
program. As the program expands more cases are likely to arise of marginal
justification and the setting of priorities and monitoring and evaluation of
ongoing investments assumes greater importance. DPP would be strengthened by
progressively employing an additional 50 qualified engineering and economic
staff, and by overseas and local training. Additional components of this
support package include constructing and equipping 2,500 sq m of office
facilities, procuring topographic surveying equipment, training surveyors, and
exercising quality control over contract surveying. The studies and
investigations to be conducted would include four feasibility studies to
assist the transmigration program, further irrigation rehabilitation in Java,
expansion of the Jatiluhur system, and irrigation and flood control on the
Cibeet River in West Java. DPP would progressively play a greater role in
establishing irrigation investment priorities, budget preparation, and the
monitoring and evaluation of ongoing investments.
Organization and Management
44.       The Dumoga project would be implemented by PIBD, an executive body
of DGWRD. PIBD was created as a special unit to implement Bank Group-
supported projects, starting with the Tenth Irrigation Project (Ln. 1578-IND),
and to supplement PROSIDA, the executive body which successfully implemented
earlier irrigation projects. The General Manager of PROSIDA is also the
General Manager of PIBD. PIBD concentrates on irrigation development in the
Other Islands. Implementation of the institutional support package including
studies and investigations, some of which would be carried out by other DGWRD
agencies (PROSIJAT and PROSIDA), would be the responsibility of DPP and the
Directorate of Nature Conservation (DPPA) of the Directorate General of
Forestry in the Ministry of Agriculture would implement the Dumoga Nature
Reserve component.
Technical Assistance
45.       About 850 man-months of local consultants and about 120 man-months
of expatriate consultants would assist PIBD in the preparation of contract
documents, supervision of construction, setting up operation and maintenance
services (O&M), and in establishing monitoring services. About 430 man-months
of foreign consultants would be engaged to provide engineering and economic
technical assistance to DPP and about 1,300 man-months of local consultants
and about 400 man-months of foreign consultants for the program of studies and



- 16 -
investigations. Assurances have been obtained that consultants with
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association for construction supervision at Dumoga would be appointed by July
31, 1980 (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The World
Wildlife Fund would provide expert assistance to help DPPA in establishing the
Dumoga Nature Reserve.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       The total project cost is estimated at $71.1 million in anticipated
early 1980 prices and would have a foreign exchange component of $31.9 million
(45%). The cost estimates include taxes on civil works contracts averaging
5%; physical contingencies of 20% for civil works and 10% for equipment and
services; and price contingencies equal to 25% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. Consultant costs, including allowances for overhead, housing
and travel, were estimated at $10,500 per man-month for expatriates, $1,500
per man-month for local engineers and $500 per man-month for technicians and
draftsmen.
47.       The proposed IDA credit of $45 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost excepting the foreign exchange costs of vehicles provided by
the Government, and $13.5 million of local costs.  It would cover 65% of the
total project cost excluding $0.4 million of vehicles provided by the Govern-
ment under reserve procurement (para. 49), and $1.7 million contractor taxes
on civil works. The Government would provide the remaining Rp 16.3 billion
($26.1 million) from its annual budget appropriations.
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       Civil works for the Toraut irrigation system ($12.8 million)/l would
be divided into two main contracts each covering main and secondary works on
about half the area. The sizable packages should attract international
contractors, and would be tendered on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Contracts for the
Toraut headworks ($2.2 million), several minor works for supporting services
and the Nature Reserve at Dumoga (totalling about $1.5 million), would be
small and are unlikely to attract international contractors. They would be
awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with the Government regulations which are satisfactory to the Bank
Group. Tertiary system would be constructed progressively as soon as
reasonable numbers of tertiary offtakes on the secondary canals have been
completed to make up sizeable contract packages. Assurances have been
/1 Base costs not including physical contingencies or expected price
increases.



- 17 -
obtained that tertiary works ($4.2 million) would be divided into about 10
contract packages (i.e., about 1,000 ha each) awarded by locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Government regulations
which are satisfactory to the Bank Group.
49.       Excepting 22 vehicles required for rapid start-up of consultant
services, which would be procured locally by consultants under the terms of
their contracts, vehicles ($300,000) and motorcycles ($35,000) would be
procured locally and financed entirely by the Government due to the
Government's policy prohibiting most vehicle imports; as this is "reserved
procurement," these vehicles would not be eligible for Bank Group's financing
or disbursement under the proposed project in accordance with Bank Group
policy. Dump trucks for O&M ($300,000), surveying equipment ($3.3 million),
and soil mechanics and hydrological equipment ($200,000) would be procured by
ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of
the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Office equipment and
furniture ($800,000) would be procured in several small contract packages by
different project implementing offices. No contract is expected to exceed
$50,000. Accordingly, office equipment and furniture would be procured
following normal Governement procurement procedures involving locally
advertised competitive bidding.
50.       During negotiations an understanding was reached with the Government
on the use and content of standard contract documents for civil works and
equipment to be procured by international competitive bidding. The under-
standing on the use and content of standard contract documents for works to be
awarded under locally advertised competitive bidding is expected to be reached
by September 1, 1980. Technical specifications for irrigation construction
have been prepared and are satisfactory, while for tertiary works construction
standards and criteria have been agreed. Other civil works (e.g. housing)
follow routine Government's specifications, while equipment to be procured is
simple in nature. Accordingly, prior Bank Group's review of bidding documents
for individual contracts may be reduced; cost limits for contracts requiring
such prior review before tendering and award would be higher than in earlier
projects, $1.5 million for civil works and $200,000 for equipment,
respectively.
51.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 70% of total contract
costs for main and secondary irrigation works at Toraut and Kosinggolan.
Disbursements for tertiary construction would be at the rate of 100% of the
cost of tertiary structures, and against buildings at Dumoga for construction
supervision and O&M and the Nature Reserve at the rate of 100% of total
expenditures, all on the basis of certified quarterly statements of expendi-
tures. Documents would be held by PIBD for the review of the Association
during project supervision. Disbursements for imported equipment, dump trucks
and furniture would be made at 100% of foreign expenditures; for locally
manufactured items at 95% of local expenditures; and at 65% of the cost of
imported goods procured locally. Disbursements for studies and investigations
would be at the rate of 100% of foreign and local consultant services



- 18 -
including the costs of 22 start-up vehicles. All other vehicles would be
financed only by the Government (para. 49). To encourage environmental
protection, disbursements would be made at 100% against the cost of operating
the Nature Reserve for the first three years on the basis of certified
quarterly statements of expenditure.
Accounts and Audits
52.       Assurances have been obtained from the Government that PIBD, DPP,
DPPA, PROSIDA and PROSIJAT would: (a) maintain separate accounts for
subprojects under their respective responsibilities, (b) engage auditors
acceptable to the Association, and (c) submit to the Association audited
financial statements, including statements of expenditure submitted in support
of credit withdrawal applications, together with the auditors comments and
opinions within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Operation and Maintenance
53.       PIBD would be responsible for the operation and maintenance (O&M)
of all project works during the construction period and, except for the
tertiary works, would continue O&M of the works under each system for one year
following completion. O&M responsibility for the Dumoga systems would then be
conveyed to the Provincial Public Works Department of North Sulawesi.
Although the O&M funding of irrigation, drainage and flood protection systems
has been a provincial responsibility, provincial funding is inadequate and is
supplemented by the Central Government. This has resulted in considerable
improvement in O&M services in irrigation projects, but there is further need
for trained staff and funds and for more timely release of funds. O&M funds
allocated to other Bank Group-assisted projects in FY79/80 closely follow
previous agreements between the Government and the Bank Group. Assurances
have been obtained that: the provincial government of North Sulawesi would
establish an O&M plan for the Dumoga irrigation project, in consultation with
PIBD and acceptable to the Association, by July 31, 1981; by October 31, 1980,
an O&M manager would be appointed as an assistant project manager; adequate
O&M funds, adjusted to keep pace with inflation and annual needs, would be
allocated to all Bank Group-assisted irrigation systems in future years; the
Government would take the necessary steps to ensure that at least half of the
budgeted O&M funds would be released to subprojects by August 15 of each year;
and that the balance would be released, in equal quarterly installments
thereafter, until the total amounts are fully released; to upgrade the
standards of O&M services and to utilize effectively the available funds, the
Government would progressively increase the number of qualified O&M personnel
in the Bank Group-assisted projects until the additional numbers, to be
established by the Government in consultation with the Association, are
employed; the Government would inform the Association by December 31 of each
year of the proposed number of 0&M personnel and per hectare O&M budget for
each subproject; and by June 1 of each following year, it would submit the
approved O&M budget and by October 1, the staffing provisions (Sections 3.02,
3.07 and 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
54.       Soon after construction, responsibility for O&M of the tertiary
systems would shift to water users' associations within the systems with close
initial supervision by PIBD. The water users' associations, which would be
formed prior to construction of tertiary systems, would appoint the necessary
O&M personnel to allocate and distribute water to the users, perform mainte-
nance and collect charges for O&M costs at the tertiary level. These arrange-
ments appear to be working satisfactorily under previous Bank Group-supported
projects, and assurances on the formation and function of water user associa-
tions have been obtained also for this project (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       Monitoring of Dumoga benefits would be accomplished by Sam Ratulangi
University (UNSRAT) in Menado, supported by the Agro-economic Survey in Bogor
and a consultant advisor.  A committee of local and !UNSRAT rc-presentatives
would be organized to guide the monitoring program and a local office would be
established to collect and compile data concerning agriculture and associated
operations; this information would be furnished to UNSRAT for inclusion in
monitoring reports. Construction activities would be reported by the PIBD
project manager. Information from the local monitoring office, UNSRAT reports
and PIBD construction reports would be consolidated by the consultant advisor
into semi-annual reports for the Monitoring and Evaluation Section in the
Directorate of Planning and Programming (DPP).
Agricultural Supporting Services
56.       Extension services in North Sulawesi, including the Dumoga project
area, would be strengthened under the Bank Group-assisted National Agricul-
tural Extension II Project which is being simultaneously presented to the
Executive Directors. Assurances have been obtained that the Ministry of
Agriculture, Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives (DG Cooperatives), MIinistry of
Home Affairs (DG Agraria), and the Bank Rakyat Indonesia would provide
adequate funds, staff, facilities, vehicles and equipment for supporting the
irrigation development at Dumoga (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Catchment Protection
57.       The Directorate of Nature Conservation (DPPA) of the Directorate
General of Forestry in the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for
establishing a Nature Reserve of at least 100,000 ha, including the Dumoga
River watershed. DPPA would provide staff, equipment and services for
permanently marking boundaries and policing the reserve and for carrying out
an education program for settlers and visitors. The World Wildlife Fund would
assist DPPA and would provide expert services, vehicles, motorcycles, training
and specialized equipment. Assurances have been obtained that the Minister of
Agriculture would promulgate a decree establishing the Nature Reserve,
covering at least 100,000 ha of the Dumoga catchment, by July 31, 1980; take



- 20 -
steps continuously to police and to halt all logging activities in the Nature
Reserve; and by July 31, 1980 enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, with the World Wildlife Fund for assisting DPPA in establishing
and operating the Nature Reserve (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
58.       The Government has effective mechanisms to recover a significant
measure of project costs through the collection of the IPEDA tax and a water
charge. IPEDA is a land tax which is based on the value of production of the
land and is collected by the village heads and turned over to local and
provincial administrations. A portion of the IPEDA collections is used for
operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation, flood control and drainage
works. At full development of the project, IPEDA collections would offset
about half the recommended O&M outlays of main systems. Water charges are
collected by water users' associations and will pay fully for the O&M of
tertiary systems. About half the project farmers have annual per capita
incomes below the estimated critical consumption level of about $110; the cost
recovery is consistent with the farmers' capacity to pay and the Government's
income distribution objectives. In addition to IPEDA and water charges,
farmers pay some 10% of gross production in village taxes. Assurances have
been obtained that following completion of project works, an adjusted IPEDA
tax, based on the increased productivity of the land, would be collected from
the farmers to cover some of O&M and a reasonable proportion of capital costs,
(Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement); that appropriate
water charges would be collected by the water users' associations; and that
the IPEDA rates established and collected would be furnished once every two
years for the Association's comments (Section 4.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
59.       Benefits and Justification.  By providing irrigation and drainage
for some 11,600 ha of land in the Dumoga valley the project would directly
benefit some 8,500 farm families. Incremental farm labor requirements would
be about one million man-days including 100,000 to 200,000 man days of hired
labor. Unskilled construction labor is estimated at about 25,000 man years
over a construction period of 5 years. At full development incremental
production would reach 46,000 tons paddy which would substantially reduce rice
deficits in North Sulawesi, a traditional rice-importing region.
60.       At present the target poverty population (farmers with per capita
incomes below the estimated absolute poverty level of about $120 in 1980)
and transmigrants constitute about 80% of the population in Dumoga; about 50%
of direct project benefits would accrue to this group.  At full project
development only about 15% of the population would earn less than the absolute
poverty level. The project would also contribute to transmigration efforts in
Dumoga, and in common with similar development elsewhere in Indonesia there
would be a flow of spontaneous migrants into the area, beginning with friends
and relatives of the present migrants to provide additional labor. The



- 21 -
development of the Dumoga Valley would accelerate development of surrounding
poorly developed agricultural areas. In particular, agricultural inputs and
agricultural services, including seed supply, would be available to nearby
farmers.
61.       Benefits from the strengthening of DGWRD's planning and programming
activities would permit greater analysis by the Government of irrigation
priorities, progressively help reduce the current high level of consultant
services employed for feasibility studies and engineering design, and by
improving the quality of topographic surveying and mapping reduce a current
wastage of time and costs caused by inaccurate work. The strengthening of
DGWRD's project appraisal capacity should also assist in reducing delays in
project implementation, and at an appropriate time should enable the Bank
Group to consider a sector lending approach. Benefits from the studies and
investigations to be carried out would be derived from accelerated irrigation
construction or upgrading which would also assist the transmigration program.
None of these benefits can be quantified at present.
62.       Economic rates of return on investments with quantifiable benefits
are 48% for Kosinggolan and 11% for Toraut, altogether 17% for the Dumoga
scheme. The high rate of return on completion of the Kosinggolan system is
partly due to the fact that sunk costs have not been included in the
calculations. The rate of return for Toraut reflects conservative judgements
on assured water supply and irrigated area. Should the flows of minor streams
into the project area prove dependable during the project construction period,
the irrigated area may be extended by an additional 1,600 ha which is likely
to raise the rate of return to between 12-13%.
Environmental Effects
63.       The establishment of the Dumoga Nature Reserve and the stable
irrigated farming developed in the valley will do much to halt the trend
towards widespread destruction of the environment caused mostly by shifting
cultivation and indiscriminate logging and hunting which would take place
without the project. Protection will thereby be afforded to several rare
animal species found only in North Sulawesi.
Risk
64.       No major technical problem is expected in the implementation of the
project, especially since conservative assumptions have been retained for the
level of water supplies. Rapid inflation over the last several years led to
sizeable cost overruns on projects initiated in the early 1970s; inflation is
a continuing problem especially after the devaluation of the Rupiah in 1978;
however, the provisions for price increases are greater for this than in
earlier irrigation projects financed by the Bank Group. The slow progress
experienced previously by the provincial irrigation office in bringing land
under irrigation in the Kosinggolan system should be greatly accelerated
under PIBD management. The main risk would be a slower rate of adopting



- 22 -
intensified irrigated agricultural production, but conservative judgements
have been made; support services would be significantly strengthened, and
close monitoring would be exercised throughout project implementation.
Projects such as Dumoga located in remote areas outside Java and involving
substantial modifications of agricultural practices may present more problems
than projects in Java, but have an acceptable level of risk in view of their
regional development importance. The strengthening of planning and program-
ming in DGWRD and the studies and investigations bear low risk.
65.       Sensitivity analyses indicate that the economic rate of return
(ERR) of the subprojects are moderately sensitive to rice yields and prices
but relatively insensitive to other variables considered in the analyses.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 28, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
I'monST - SOC     MIT     PAU SHZT          Page  1  of  5  pages
IIIIIOlUESL                UVYE?CE GROUPS (ADJUSTE ACAGES
LAND AA (UBOUSAND SQ. m.)                                                   - MOST RECUT ESILTAT2)
TOTAL           2027.1                                                  SAMS        SAME     HEn 11GH11
AGClCULTOSL      292.9                                NOST RECENT     GEGRAPIC    mlcotl        LiCOE
1960 Lk    1970 A  ESTImTz A.       REGION /C  GROUP Li   GOUP a
CDP P  CAPITA (USS)                   80.0       140.      360.0           528.9      209.6       467.5
ElMGT COYSTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS 01 COAL IQSXVALT)       129.0       120.0     218.0           371.1       83.9       262.1
POPUtLAIION AND VtTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAl (lI'LONS)      94.7       117.6     135.9
RIUAX POPULATON (P?UCU  OF TOTAL) 14.6          17.1      18.4            27.4       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJETONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MULIONS)                      207.0
SIATIORAIA  POPMIATIC  (MILLIONS)                      357.0
Vl!A  ST&TIOIAY POYULAION IS REAL8                    2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PM SQ. 7I2.                       47.0        58.0      66.0           154.8       49.4        45.3
PM SQ. 21. AGLICULTURAL 140    337.0         419.0     456.0           566.7      252.0       149.0
PClAXIOY AGE STRUCTURE (PUCUT)
0-14 Y45.                         40.8        44.0      41.0            41.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YIS.                         56.1        53.5      56.0            54.9       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.5       3.0             3.3        3.0         2.8
POPDLATION GROWTH RATE (PUCEMT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.2       2.0             2.4        2.4         2.7
IEBN                                ..         3.7       3.3             4.3        4.6         4.3
CRCDE 5I7 RATE (PE TSOUSAID)        47.0        43.0      37.0            30.2       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATl RATE (PER TOUSA2D)      23.0        18.0      16.0             8.3       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2 8         3.2       2.4             2.1        2.9         2.7
FAMIILY PLAMNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUSAIDS)       ..       181.1    2213.0
USERS (PUCENT O HARRIED WN)    ..             0.2      19.0            34.1       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
IIDEX OF 700D PRODUCSION
PE  CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.5       100.0     105.0           106.2       98.2        99.6
PIE CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALORIES (PEECEST OP
REQtIMEDNTS)                    89.0        91.0      96.0           104.1       93.3        94.7
ROTEINS (ClAHS PR DAY)            43.0        43.0      43.8            57.4       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH AIMAL A4D PULSE        15.0j      14.0      16.6            16.9       13.6        17.4
CEILD (AGES 1-4)  OKTA.LITY RATE    31.0        22.0      19.0             4.8       18.5        11.4
HEALT!
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEALS)    41.0        46.0      48.0            61.1       49.3        54.7
INFAAT IIORTALITT RATE (PEI
T0USAIND)                             ..       126.0        *-            46.6      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFI WATER (PERCMNS OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      12.0            21.9       26.3        34.4
RAN                                ..         10.0      15.0            46.2       58.5        17.9
URAL                                ..         1.0       6.0            12.8       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO E  L'ETA DISPOSAL (PEtC2NT
OP POPULATION)
IOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0            28.4       16.0        40.8
JRAN                                ..        50.0      60.0            65.0       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..         4.0       5.0            14.7        3. 5       27. 7
POPULATION PE ?PMTSICIA7         41000.0L.  26830.0  16430.0            3790.5    11396.4      6799.4
POPUI-ATION PEL SURSINGC PESON        ..      3010.0   4670.0           1107..    5552.4       1522.1
FPOFLATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
MOTAL                           1370.0      1670.0    1560.0           613.3     1417.1       726.5
URBAN9                             ..       1130.3       ..            203.        97.3       272.7
atTRAL                              ..      1890.0        .1. 110.               2 445.9     1404.4
ADMISSIONS PF3 HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..       22.4            23.9       '4.8        27
HOUSING
AVERAGZ SIZ5 OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.6         4.a       ..              5.2        5.3         5..
RBAN                               4. 9        5.3       i. .9 4.9
RURAL                              4. 3                                             5.47  .  ..  5.  5. 5
AVEEAGE qIuIMER OF PERSONS PER jlOOM
-OTAL                               ..         L;         ..
'LR!AN                               .         L.o
kURAL                               ..                            ..         ..
ACCISS -O ZECSR.CtOY 'PERCENT
3F 3b'EL::NGSi
2CTAL                                                                              -Z . .    2.5  ' .
:rMAN                               ..          ,         .               ..       17.8
;tURAL                               .4   ..                                                    ' 
~~~LT8A1.~ ~  ~ ~~._  



-24 -                                                  ANE  I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TSD0ONXIA - SOCLAL INDICATORS aATA Smi
IZI1ZEFE    G20UPS (A3UST!D )A%PA&S
- !0ST RZC!IT ESTI!JAYE) -
SAKK        SAMZ      SZX  alggZl
M1T RazcEN      eOGRAMsC    rscOm           mNCOM
1960 /b     1970 /b ZSTSIMTE /b       ISGON /c   COUP /d    GMGP /a
ED3CAT!ON
ADJUSTZD E0NRLLI'~OW   RATIOS
PRIAY:        6OL                  67.0         75.0      82.0             97.9       63.3         82.7
MALB                 79.0         80.0      86.0             96.7        79.1        S7.3
FUAIZ                55.0         70.0      77.0             97.4        48.4        75.8
SZCQIDAY:   mT4L                    6.0         15.0      10.0            42.2        16.7         21.4
!AZ                   10.0        20.0      25.0             46.7        22.1        33.0
FQSa                  3.0         11.0      15.0             40.9        10.2        15.5
VOCATTOWAL EnOL. (S OF SZCCM=T)  20.0            22.0       21.0             12.5        5.6          9.J
PUPIL-TEAC= RATIO
PRLMAIY                            39.0        29.0       30.0            32.5        41.0        34.L
SECoNIAAT                          14.0        13.0       1L.3            25.8        21.7        23.4
AULT LrTZRACT RAT! (cwRC)            39.0         57.0      62.0             84.1       31.2         54.0
CONS'!W ON
?ASSEL'GA CALS PE  M0SAn
POPULATION                          1.0         2.0        3.2             6.1         2.8         9.3
RADIO ROZIVS PU TROUSAN
POPULATO                -           7.0           ..      37.0            84.4        27.2        76.9
TV RECZIVERS PM TOOUSAl
POaPULAtON                           ..         0.7        2.0            22.4         2.4        13.5
UWSPAPU  (DAILY GLZRA1
flTRZSTr) CIRCULATION P2
1WUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..      16.0            24.2         5.3         L.3
C7Yf  ANUAL AT=NDAXCPU CAPTA   ..                   ..       0.9              3.6        1.1          2.5
LABOR FORac
TOTAL MCI FOCE (OUUSmS)    34027.0            42109.0   51000.0
-'ALZ (PECZ04)                     27.9        31.0       30.5            36.7        24.d        29.2
ACRICL TURE (PMUC3)                74.8        66.3       60.1            54.6        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRT (PURCZ )                   8.4         9.7       12.0            16.3        10.0        11.9
?AZTICZPATTON SATZ (PMCZT)
TOTAL                                36.7        35.3       34.6            40.7        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 54.2         49.5      48.6             49.9       52.4        4B6.
FEMALE                               20.0        21.6       20.8            31.0        18.0        20.4
!CONOWIC DEPENDENCT RATIO               1.2          1.3       1.1              1.1        1.2          1.4
ZNCOME 0ISTR3UTION
FERCENT OF PRIVATE SYCO
ECEIZVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERC23T 0   OIUSSZOLDS     ..        33.7/h                     14.9                    15.2
IGEST  0 PECEr 0OF jaSETOS    ..               52.0/h                     46.8          ..        48.2
LOVEST 220 ?MC1_T oF EUSOOS           .         6XFi:       .              6.2                     6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCN  O? BOOSEEOLDS       ..         17.37w      ..             16.8         ..        16.3
?OVE2SY TAcGET 00RUPS
ETsIATZD AtSCIU-T  P0VETY ZNCGME
LEVEL (CUSS PU CAPITA)
RA24                                 ..          ..      221.0            193.1       99.2       241.3
9tMA"                                *            .      130.0           128.7        78.9       136.6
FST2IATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOfC
LEVEL (USS PM CAPITA)
LIMANT                               ..          *-     145.0            136.8        91.9       179.7
RILRAL                                                   98.0             96.8        14.3       103.7
EST:YA: P?OPUTLATIOI BELOV ABSOLUTE
PCv`T7Y 2NCZIfE LEVEL (PERCE.T)
'7RBAII                        .. ..59.G                                  22.3        h.'
RU9AL                                ..          ..      65.2             5 .5       53.9         27.5
.  ot AV&LlAble
'l Yc aoplicable.
YOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomet-ic means. excluding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated councry in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise ncted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  for 1970, between 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1980. Poverty levels are estimated 1980 levels at 1980 prices.
ic    East Asia & Pacific; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); le Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976); /f 1961-63; /.R 1962; /h Income recipients.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita and population is for 1978.
Deceaber 31, 1979



- 25-                                                                       ANNEX I
DUUMIN Or OCULINDICTORSPage  3 of  5 pages
h- dt. arm                                       tb.~~~~~~~~o £0i1  tDCTR
Notes   A.lthough thdaeredrac  fro  soure  generaLIy judged the mast s-oheitative  ed re1lble  tt sh-ld alum he notted that they ma  not be interna-
tionall  -opnai  because of the 10k of etendmrlned definitions and eInnept. used by different coutries in collecting the date. The data are, tntees
ceefuil t    eoieodr   rn lue  indicate trands, mod obarsoterle certain maJor diff.-ereoe   be t..ee   -utrie..
The adlotel grop no-ragen for onob iodiontor are populti-oe-eigited geematrim  means, eoiolgthe etre-   -alue  or the Ladiotor. end the mat populated
-ootry -o eol group.  D.e to look of data, grop averages of al  aodloat-v  for Capital . drplos 01-1 iprters nod of Indieot-e of.d-.s to hater and Excrete
Ditp.osl,  -houcg, I.oe.   ietrcbottoe and Poverty fr.  other ooontry groups are pop,alation-oighted geem,eeo meane cithout  .oniusien of the .otrene  -nLue moo
'ie moot populated coutry.  Oboe. the covera de ofocnotes s-o9 the tediontore deon-ds on a 1aul  hty of da,te end  .is to tunfrm. onutIocost - n --eree
loreltIng aveage  of one indicator to sother.  The . evrgear    al  ueu   s enoolmatios  of.  'netdv.le hen comparima  oe.I elue of.on
odlcator at a time amog the coutry and reeec   roup..
LAND AIMA (thmoesd eqA.k.)                                                                  ACces  to.W4eret   Miosl(enn 'of muaties     totalg.urba   modVrrl-
*W ~Total  urfeme area compising ludae  edild -ctrs-c h-o  pol  (oal   ranWn-crl  sre PIy sere.desa-
daiut l-Wetb recent estimate of agricultural ar  eaued temp-rarily                  pereenrtage- of their respectiveppltni   xerte,a disposal may ioniude
cc permasnently for crops, pastures, whret end bitches gardens or to                      the collection and disposal,  ith or  ithout treatmet, of Ihaun-  aurt.
lie  falow                                                                                end cao-ete-tr by eater-born   systom  or th. use of pit priviem  andssla
imstallations.
GNP PR   fP li )U    - GtIP per oapita estimates, at curet wet prices,                       PnnulatiomnPer Rweioi- - Popolatios divided by number of prarticiag physicism
o      1a.    y esae             -teei a wmto  an World hank Atlas (19 767  basis);walidfes 1U7UW Teal& enheI at univesity level.
196o, 197, 5nd 197$ date..                                                                toine            Daren  Person - Popalatiom  divided by nmber of praoticing male
CWSnMPTWIOIs  C0AP    - Annual conumtion of cmesertial e-.eorgraiit  tmares, prtinal nurses, and assistant nures.
Midii iAdTi-fli  jet96f lm   matural gas end hydro-, n"ucle tar      ;; andge-          on   aio          Son talld- oa.ur,.ad  ua                   P,plto   toa,ohn
thermal electricity  in kilograms, of coal equivaent per capita   1edrua)diie  by thilepoiemSro   opitar"heds acllahi  in
1970, end 1976 data.                                                                        poblin end private general and epenialioed hoatpital end rehabiitation cen ters.
Hospitals- marenthliba~nte psrsoentl' staffed by at least one physician.
P0NUiA.TION AID VITAL STATISTICS                                                               Etblailebmants provding prianipally cotstlial car  are not i-olded.  uRwal
Ftotal pulation. IVYleawrTmillicre) - As of Shaly 1; 1960, 1970, and                        hospitals, beeeer, imolod  health and medical centrer  not persmmenetly staffed
19I  data.                                                                                by a physiean, (but by a medcal assistant, nurse, midoife, ete.) abich offer
Urban Peealatlon (psaront of total) - Ratio of  bura  to total poplation;                     s-patient Mocedawtion and procide a liited rasge of medical1 fsoilitie..
dIfferent deflaltione of urban aesmay affect ceqprabtilty of data                        dd1 96$4nglfqglt4 4d - Total ecambr of admissions to or dinoharges from
a..ng coutries.; 1960, 1970, end 1975 data.                                               h      tijbiilidiidldayitn.uehr of bed..
P.MlytiopfRYear 200  Curret poplation proJections are bmasd on                        )P2JNm
1975ttiii     pni tloiiib    by age and .e..and their mortality end fertility         AveegeSie o  iesoehI7d )eros                oseod   tonal, uban. end rual -
rats.Prjection paraetetrs for ecrtality rates comprise of these.                    A sseodcnit   fagou1fidvdascosaelving psarter   ano
leesasaiglife expectancy at birth increaing vito country's                     their man meals.  A boarder or edgr may or eay nun he included in the
per capita inonme level, end female life eepectsney sotbilisieg at                     hbnussbld fr  statistical perpess.
77.5 years.  The parameters for fertility rate alas have three levels                 Averse. m       oferes           room -totl, uban  and rua  -, bor'ge comber
-sesing doelies inc fertility  cnording to Inns leve  ad past                           OF personprf room in          uba,adua  occupied toonvotInl deiiling.,
femily olsnning perfrmowee. Emob coutry is then assigned oens of these                  repectively.  Deellinge emoluds nos-peremannt etrutuee and unc-up-e  pocte.
nine coembinations, of mortality end fertility trends for projection                  Acosee to Efletricity (neroent of dcfls)-total  urban, and rural-
purpoaee.                                                         ves~~~~~~~~~~~~~-tiomul defig    i    lcrct   I   iigqaters as perceotage or
ticsi ..in apettiincrypepulstion there is cc growth                              total, urban, and rural dwellings r-ape-ticely.
sic th   i  ate iseqa  to the dsath rate, and alec the age
struture remins constant. Thin is mohioved only after fertility rates               E    Z~lIO
declioe to the replecenent level of unit set raproduotion rate, ebe                  P2t E 11. atios
_eho generation of ocs  repluee.  itself e-tlny.  The sattionary pups.WE~'E9r~iba"il   n   eae-   Gross total, male and female enroll
latIon  ninecasestimated ot the boAs of the projected charanteristins                     mat ofallage  at tAhe pimry level as peroenosge of respective primary
or the pop,s1atloI  in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility                school-age poplasltbens; nermaly inludes children agd 6-11 years but
rate to repIeeme  levi.                                                                   adjusted for different Lengths of primary eduotico; for   -utriee cith
Year stato.   ynpti= =    stie.  rmbeh   - The year  hen   tatienar  popuLation,           universal ad..atios -sorolet eqy snoed IDO preenot  ico- som   pupils
sloe has boe eeehed.                                                                      are beloe or above the offimial 4oiholage
P     ..ato   litity                                                                Oeedr  eel- totl male ad female - Comptedaoa.oe- ;oeoooa-'
.- Mid-year population per eqor  oiloetnr )10D buctaree) of                     edcto   euie   tlat for  years of approved primony icotruotio-;
t tIfl                                                                                    proides generaL ventional, or teanhr training inoruotiooo for pupils
fo Ie.An. eciclturLI lend - Compted as above fey agrioultral lan                        usuallyIof 12 to 17 years of age; corspnene...se   r                     -toraly
onI                                                                                       -anlded.
Por.Ltic   s.e Structue (percent) - Childre  (0-lb years), serkiag-ags,                     huctiomlsnolenjeretof secondary) - Vocational icst -tosiclde
(   M-o  ers), md retired (hI years seA over) as pereentagee of mid-ya                  teic        Inutri  * or other progesm  ftio oprtidpeetlore
population; 1960, 1970, mod i977 data                                                       departments of eecendmry inutitotiose.
Population trGet  Rat  (percent) -toal;      - Annual growth rates of total mid-            ?uoii.t-tmher rati-crmyanneedy- Total students  -orlid io
yorpopltin   for 15-h  10-A0   n  1970-f7.                                               primayan eary        ryidel  dviedb  onhern of t-eaoirs in thc oorro-
PootolationOoehtte(eoet                & ubn- Annual growth rates of urban                     spnding levels..
popoatics fo  190-hO  iph-70  so 970-75.                                          Adult litery rate           est) -Literate nad1te (ehie to rend and orir)a
Cd.Birth Rate, er tosn)           - 1a live births per thoused of mid-                     apreteo ot a tpopltion aged 15 years and over.
yea  a..ti00;  *9o  1970,and 1977 data.
h-.D ate   ertosn)- Annual deaths per thounend of mid-yea                        CPgUPTIOns
pi96Iti7EiFI957T977i~19,7 data.                                                 Pes-eqe  Car  (pEr1 thousadr: ooaaiu) -Passenger oar  o-priee  matora-
irn   erodutios Rate - Averge user ofdsgtr  a  aa   ill hear                           setn   esta   ihtpros   oldsa,,mboe-, ha-rses and eiitnry
coher mor,l reproductive period if sh   epree  present age-                                   ls
ope_ifto  ertIlity rates; uoosly five-year  roragee ending in 19600.RdoRci,o(c  thousad oceo~lation   -All typsI   neie frrdi,.
iPli, nod i975.                                                                           br adats to  gesrabpbi   e  huado   ooaio   oldeulone
Pam ly Pl nima - Aocet.    r   Annal (thouands) - Annul sober of                            reciver  in countries and in years ohe  regiotratios of.ra,dio   esooi
-,cePt.r. of birth-comtroi devices se epieqe of eotional family                           effect; data for r-net ys-r  eq not be conpereble cioc  o,    o oere
LPlanning progrn.                                                                          abolished licensing.
amly vin-ie  - Uaers (ecr..eno_of marridmmn -    ,Peruetage of  -mare                   TV Recever  (per.tbhuaud :tpulatiot) - T  rece.ivers for bredoaut t. genre
cn e o   hild-heaing age(5Anyas   bt   s  hrth-cemtroI devcs-uicc.N                           pePh.sn         pouaIon  eoldes uo,Lio....ed Thrtecoilorcootre
to 1 al mrried ese  Isan  ag  grou9p.                                                   and is years shine registratino i_    f   uTV     en   offe-.
f000 At   n-t'-tion per Cenita :1969-71-100)                         hewsea9cer C~~":M Ircolaltion (n.r t1housan  eossltiou) -Shone the avrage oir-luiato
FOOD AND XVTRrTIC1                                                             M~~~of   ail   gnral  .terestdAs 0 percodi-I pohIIation
Indee of food                 -C in&I~7110d)tdeo of pr capita                               irnted primaily to recording gosera  sews   iti -oidered to be  'doily'
annal Prdcinoalfod omedities. Pr.oiuno seludes see  and                                   if It appearsetlIeae.t fou  times tovek
fen  nod is on oalndur year hasis.  faditins  coe  primar  goods                        Cinem  A-o.iL Attendanc  her C.eit. noer tear -   . hod- tie onbero   ik
(e.g.-sgar-n  instead of sagar)  hieb are edibie ad con tai.n  trients                    soddrigte  er  iP               Pio  ded.minuioo  to driv--io vies  no  sb Ir
e.Icffeed ten are coldd.Aggregate prdodution of each coontry                            uite. io
inbased on satltnal averge prodmoer pice ceigts
Per Ianita s     yof caoies (Pe.e.    o f Femuirem ts) . Computed from                IAMR FORfEi        4tosns              -odaly-,.p- .- d.i .
enemYeuvln  oftnt fond  .upp Li.. avlll  in country per capita                        tif.rFretosno      cnmial   ciepros   oldo    re
per day.  eAlIble cupplies comprie domestet  prod,otios, import  is                     forcesnd unmlyed hut e-clding  ouenies, niuets,  tec. Dcfioit.
coports,-sd chuges is stok.  Net supplies ecluds unbisi feed, sends,                    in vaious ocuctries are oot comparable.
qm_t itien used in food proven..Ing, end Io..e. io distribution   Require-            7qp9J~~ )- Female labor fr-  us perceotage of ttl labor foroc
sets wer  estimated by Phi base d on phyeioloeical oreds for torma                    dgjA.   tu    no   Mtp ) - Labor f-r  -o farming, f-reu-y, huotcog and
activity end heal th cons iderig vee-r'ometal temperature, ho9y -eghto,                 fisbiig as perc-tage of total labor force
agetmod nec diotributiono of pop1ati-e, asnd ni1coing 10 peroeat for                  Ildoetryp7     e(-lborfrei ,og  oetrot:    ooftui,cgto
ateat household levei.                                                                             enteiet, r uod  Pao-a pe  eg   of  totlibr1        re
Pe  nIt! -oLY  fpt:   urss ncrtday) - Proteie Iont-nt of pe.r                       fartioptio  Saeanrdc      oolml    o  ;~"eme -eirtoocpst-o   o
opta net, nupl  oF fo   e   a.Rt pply of food in dafined asPPiit  rts  r  oop ted usttlml,sd frAe-1bi:r fov cpee-
above  Requirements for ali conrisetabliabe  by US8DA provide for a                     vetagen of total, sale end female popuitioe ofnleg rseiep
aiienaioac  of 60'I gram  of total protein per day end 2O grinss of                 1960, i970, and 1975 data.  These are Iwo~ P.-icoio    ae  rfetio
anial end pulse protein, of chiob Ii grasme hbold he anima  protein.                   ag-e tructure othe popultlt, end Long tiuctreod.  u fe-eottset-o
Three stanad  areicor than thon  e o  75 gine  of total proteni  end                    aefrom ottiotalsroe
25 gram  of enmelproteioas  an  vrage for the eorld, proposed by PAt                  -oomoPeedec  Ratio -Ratio of popotla o uoder it mod it nod ovr 
it the Tird  rold Food toc.th   abrforc  io age grouip of 1,-6b yers.
Per  nemitheroteIn  _ueeiv from anma., nod ou           - Protein supply of food
derived fro  misl  sooue   i aspr day.                                              reISTfTIA
Child(se  1-i)  rtly RaeAe iuad(-..Ius death  per thousand                                Prerentane of Private itoom   (both it ease and kiodi - Poveive   yrih
cc ag  grou  1-A  earn   tohildv   Icti   g   ru;frms             r-5 perent, richest 20 perceno, p-oret 20 percent, sod poret Fyroo
opiog v-ctr-o dote derived fro  life tah1es.                                              of houshehlds.
dEbIT4                                                                                    POVCRTY TARGET ,PYOPS
..f  xetan    t   rth(ern) - Average numb lero  years of life                        Estimated Absolute Pecerty bo-n  Leve  '(30$ pe  ocia       ri   -t vrol
reanigad       brh ?'1 1200-,17.( an   977. dte                                           Abnolutv poverty incoelevel in ~ that incdome leve   eio oiol,   -ioima
.of ant Irtroalty Rete leer thous-o   - Annual deaths of infants under ...                    tritiocally sdeq-tia   diet plus coeo     .l o-f,od vqice -.c  -0o
Yea faeper thousand iio  bIrtho.                                                          affordable.
Oveco: Ito Safe AWatr  pmrcee.tof AOoletroo  -itotal,urban mod rurl                       tetiented Relative Povrtyncmlel(JSrrvot(-ranodvri
Nmber of PpeoLe 'tot, urban, and  r,rlct   ess e no...n to                                 an   eaiepvryicm   ee inoone-third of nraeper- et
ou,, cater coppy (ioliden treted n          oaters or entreated hot                       percenal  _uome of tecotr.Ubnlvli  de:oe  -vo  the  on   ee
.coo-t-imiaedtatr nuhob netht iron p-teoted boreboles, ope-ng,                             -ith edjostint for higher or          1 o     Itng :0 ubanaes
sod omoitary celln) as peree..tagna of their repetive populations. 10                   Estimated fotolto  eo  bouePvrybo    ee    eoo       vn 
nurban eree   pblilo foutain or stsdpost lceesed not mare then                          rual-Peceto         tpp laMo tvn   n   ualuoae'booepo'
20   ntesfo     house esy h.e ocide-d .e being nitbin remasoble
acen   f that house.  Tn rura          ..es .re .ootlemorose. ouId Imply
tot t!her, oosofe 00 Iobr   f toe house hold do sot hav  to aenutone--   and  vcllteDcov
dco prv;vrivavpat  I th~ieay in fetohieg the fumily    osteramd                                                             Cov....to bAlynb   o   eoetoo   eree
Moue  1970



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GLOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                   ANNUAL RATE OP GROWTR (%. constant prices)
USS Mln    x          1960-65          1965-70           1971-78
GNP at Market Prices           47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1            3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving           9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance        -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8              8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AIM
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
USS Mln    x          Mln     T            USS  , %
Agriculture                    11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                       12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                       13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -         3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37.339  100.0       56.4   100.0           662   100.o
GOVERNMENT FINAITCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(RV Billion)                             2 Z of GDP
1977/78      1978/79                      1977    1978
Current Receipts                 3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure              2.149      2 744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                  1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures             2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738       987                          3.9      4.5
1HONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                   695      987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector            129      153      209     990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector           524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 - 100)        106      139      196     234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    l.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7        6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector          65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
'Tote:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 - USSI up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 - USSI, thereafter.
,'b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainlv of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
NoC aDplicable
East Asia & Pacific -rograms
January7 30, 98r0



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TR DE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
3ALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
19 6       1977       1978             (Average 1976-78)
US$ M1n       2
1.  Exports:                                   6,513      7,952     7,989
(a)  Oil and LfG (net)                  3,7 0      4,445      4,010            Oil and LNG (net)              4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                             2,8 3      3,507      3,979            Timber                           986      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)                  -6,6i7    -7,777    -8,129               Rubber                           653       8.7
(a)  Imports                           -6,1,7    -7,241    -7,543              Coffee                           488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                           -4JO       -536        586            Palm Oil                         190       2.5
3   Resource balance                             -A4        175       -140            Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                             -7 8       -865    -1,015             Manufactures                     261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a             -3,4       -436       -499            All others                       619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                         -4)4       -429       -516
5.  Balance on current account                  -802       -690    -1,155                  Total                     7,505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment                    287        285        271
7.  Capital grants                               1)0        100        100
8.  Public M & LT loan /a
(a)  Disbursement                       2,314      1,955      1,627            RATE OF EXCHANGE
(b)  Amortization                        -4i7       -825       -969
(c)  Net disbursements                  1,837      1,130        658              Aucust 1971 through November 14, 1978
9.  Other capital (net)                         -481       -174        834
10.  Change in reserves                                                                    US$1.00  -  Rp 415
(- increase)                           -1,001       -651       -708                Rp 1,000 -  US$2.41
11.  Net official reserves                      1,557     2,208      2,916
Since November 15. 1978
Reserves in months of imports + NFS               2 8        3.4        4.3
Public debt service as % of exports              11.7       15.9       18.4                US$1.00  -  Rp 625
Rp 1,000 -  US$1.60
EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31. 1978
Disburfied Undisbursed Total
uS$ million       --
Total External Public Debt                     12,983      5,794    18,777
IBPD/IDA LENDING (December 31. 1979) CUSS milli,n)
__RI        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                         760-09    515.16
Undisbursed                                   1,815.91    254.64
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                 2,575.00    769.80
/a  Based on IBRD external debt data.                                                                 East Asia and Pacific Programs
February 15, 1980



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan!                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One Loan and twenty-two Credits fully disbursed            50.00  300.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.42
289     1972   Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.50        0.08
300     1972   Populat-ion                                         13.20        2.15
318     1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                    8.50        0.46
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.06
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.05
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.61
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00        0.54
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.71
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.40
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        9.27
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.47
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       19.29
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development ProJect                40.00       26.73
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       29.76
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       48.73
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00       10.00
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
1005     1974   Railway                                    48.00                 0.46
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 5.11
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                41.85
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 2.29
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                 0.92
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                16.19
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                89.56



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                29.50
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                38.65
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 8.77
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                44.75
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.96
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                18.68
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.64
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                17.09
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                21.18
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                6.49
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00               64.51
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.88
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.64
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00               56.46
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00               27.32
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    15.43
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50               21.41
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                12.67
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00               55.95
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00              106.31
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                4.78
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00              135.24
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00               27.39
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                   64.86
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.59
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00               54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                50.00
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00               41.78
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00              130.00
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00              175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply /a                     36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               99.00
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
30 -                       Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                        2,575.00  769.80   2.058.31
of which has been repaid                      32.34    0.41
Total now outstanding                        2,542.66  769.39
Amount sold                                      28.24    0.00
of which has been repaid                       9.99
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            2,524.41  769.39
Total undisbursed                            1,815.91  254.64   2.058.31
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATaIENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.3          -       0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
Total                                               51.7      10.5       62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 33.4       2.1       35.5
Total held by IFC                                    18.3      8.4       26.7
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)           -        -          -



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pageE
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (Cr. 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                      6-7
1579, 1645 and 1691)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                  8-10
405, 480,
Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604, 1707                 10-11
and 1751)
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            11-12
Rural Development (Cr. 946)                                                  12
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                     12
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                       13-14
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                             15-16
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   16
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                17
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703)                      17
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                        18
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                            18
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                         19
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898 and Ln. 1197)                              19-20
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          20
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696)                                               20-21
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                      21
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            22
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                              22
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653)                                    23
Water Supply (Ln. 1049 and 1709 /2)                                            24
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 33 -                      MTNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: TJS830 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the first
construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the project
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977 and
contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over
the appraisal estimate and the project is currentlv expected to be completed
by December 1982, about three years behind the original completion date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but con-
struction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes
in the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other
components.  These will be verified as bids are received for the major
contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63 Million Loan of June 6, 1Q77;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1083.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 34 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35 Million Loan of June 6. 1977;
Effective Date: July 7. 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
IDecember 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16. 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29. 1978.
Effective Date: May 10. 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory.



35 -                          ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 pages
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17. 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program was completed in 1976 at 6,924 ha of rubber
and 5,052 ha of oil palm. By 1981 all areas should be mature and construction
completed at the Bekri Mill, Panjang bulk installation and Way Berulu crumb
rubber factory. Rubber production for 1978 was 10,986 tons (3% above target)
and oil palm was 29,159 tons (35% below target). The drought of 1976/77 and
a severe caterpillar attack in 1977 contributed to this drop. Production
targets for 1979 for both crops are expected to be achieved.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The Bina Mulya Ternak corporation (BMT) is now managed by Indonesian
staff with satisfactory capability. Development of ranch infrastructure and
fencing has practically been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi ranches
remain understocked. It is expected that accelerated purchases of domestic
stock in 1979 will enable BMT to utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. A three-year pasture and grazing research program with
Australian bilateral assistance has started. Sufficient funds were available
to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1979 and up to Project
completion about mid-1980.



- 36 -                       ANNEX IT
Page 9 of 24 pages
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: IIS$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactorv growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  USS7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date:  November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management UJnit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea.  Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industrv Rehabilitation:  USS50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The two rehabilitated factories and the one newly constructed are
operating satisfactorily, except for problems with instrumentation and
shortage of spares, which are being tackled. Cane areas have been expanded,
but field development to increase yield and sugar content, particularlv on
factory rented cane land, has not received sufficient attention. Although
cane farmers' yields come close to appraisal forecasts, further improvements
are possible. Largely due to uneven supply and poor auality of cane, finan-
cial results of PTP XV and PTP XXI/XXII are poor, though the latter is
improving. The solution is to improve cane productivity and quality and total
factory cane supply and to implement a cost reduction progran, including
amalgamation of uneconomic units.  The Government is encouraging a switch to
farmers' cane on a much greater scale than foreseen at appraisal, with
conseauent dislocation of cane supply.  Sugar is a favorable smallholder crop
in rainfed and less well irrigated land, especially in East Java, hut inten-
sive research on rainfed cane varieties, intercropping and upland soil



- 37 -                        ANTEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
fertility is needed to encourage farmer interest and maintain cane supply.
The Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station has been slow to carry out this
research.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US86.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  January 8, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30,
1980
The overall project is about 18 months behind schedule.
Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is completed and operating
satisfactorily. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is
on site ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  TISA30 Hfillion
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date:  March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind
appraisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effec-
tiveness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate
fertilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting.  These incomes are sub-
stantially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence
of the relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous
settlers have already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled
area at W4ay Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because
fertilizers are not available on site and delayed road construction limits
marketing of cash crops.  Experience to date highlights the need for
improving project management and ensuring that agricultural support services
and input supply systems are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65 i¶illion Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 2, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. I7ousing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way wir_ch -
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.



- 38-                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date:  September 13, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented. The preparation of work programs and budgets
for 1980 should be ready on time, in order to avoid delays in budgeting and
releasing of Government funds.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  US$99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project became effective in November 1979.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979: Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some project sites previously identified have been found only par-
tially suitable, and are now being resurveyed. However, final design for
all the project sites are expected to be available by mid-1980 and contracts
let before the end of the year.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers,
the project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation esti-
mates. At the present projected pace of implementation all components,
except fellowships, should be completed by the Closing Date.



- 39 -                       ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: US$12 Million Credit of
August 13. 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
This project became effective in December 1979.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule, as is sublending
to small enterprises.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
a year behind schedule.



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nationwide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the project
less effective than it could be. The training program, although on schedule
and making good progress, is out of phase with book production, which is
almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement. Textbooks
and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization and illus-
trations, and th-eir content is limited by the national curricula. In response
to Association proposals, the Government has started a major review of the
project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook programs
and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: US$49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11. 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new
system (polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by estab-
lishing a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java
and Sumatra, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four Accountancy Development Centers in existing universities. The project
implementation unit has been established and staffed, and implementation of
the technician components (84% of project cost) is proceeding on schedule:
contracts for architectural and technical assistance services have been
signed; sites have been acquired; and sketch plans have been completed.
Implementation of the accountancy components (16% of project cost) of the
project is six months behind schedule primarily due to inadequate coordination
and control among the several agencies involved in implementation.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered a ten-month delay due to late signing of the-
Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical



- 41 -                       ANNEY II
Page 14 of 24 pages
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further
delays have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts
for the Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2
years behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and
100% of technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the
technical assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT
Agreements. Overall, the MIinistry of Education and LAN components are going
well, but the Ministry of Mianpower has had difficulty in managing its
diverse program of establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation
may require postponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  USS19 IMillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30. 1983
The project finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training. -The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with minor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and the training of a further
110 educators has been completed. The team has now started training of 7,n0o
teachers, the development of learning materials and curricula revisions.
Phase I of a three-phase civil works program is 70% completed and Phase II
will begin shortly.  Iinor problems with book and furniture procurement, site
acquisition, and disbursements for civil works are being resolved.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  TUSS15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30. 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed.  Total delays in
civil works and equipment procurement is now about 10 months. Staff
training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  IJSS42 Mtillion Loan of Mav 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower through construction, provision of furniture and equipment for
agricultural development schools and in-service training centers, and



- 42 -                       ANNEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
technical assistance for improvement of curricula, educational planning, and
evaluation. Implementation is generally on schedule, and no major problems
have been encountered to date.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
thereafter progressed smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been
synchronized with the grid and are now operating satisfactorily. Consultants
are expected to issue final acceptance of the plant shortly to enable dis-
bursements to be completed before the closing date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang was commissioned in August
1979 meeting the appraisal target. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted by mid 1980 as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule.  This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date:  June 6. 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 100 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang has been retarded, inter-alia, due to a
misalignment in the center line and consequent delays by the consultant in
finding appropirate solutions. Currently, a delay of about four months is
estimated in the commissioning date for Unit 4 and about 2 months for Unit
5.



- 43 -                        ANNEX II
Page 16 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  US$109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 30, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about US$30 million is expected. Delays in award of contracts for civil
works caused by introduction of new procedures for contract awards by Gov-
ernment have resulted in a four-month delay in the tight construction
program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set corres-
pondingly.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far. Bids for turbine
generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a letter of intent for
the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled. Bids for steam gener-
ator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



- 44 -                       ANNEX II
Page 17 of 24 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976), BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached an understanding with BAPINDO and
the Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy
BAPINDO's weaknesses and achieve further improvements. BAPINDO has effec-
tively implemented the Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 45 -                      ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10 Million Loan of Mlay 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  U13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
has improved markedly. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
except for delays in the completion of the three buildings still under
construction. The delays are attributable to contractual problems
associated with increases in the prices of building materials and oil.
Contractors consider the recent Government increases on contract costs to be
unacceptable because the revised costs are insufficient to offset losses on
existing contracts. The buildings, which were scheduled to be completed in
September 1979, will now be completed in April 1980. The Government's
proposals for utilization of savings under the project have already been
agreed upon by both the Association and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and implementation of the activities is expected to
start shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. Despite the slowdown in construction associated with
increases in the prices of building materials and gasoline, project buildings
are expected to be completed on schedule. Population education and training
components are also making steady progress. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is underway. However, the contraceptive raw materials study and



- 46 -                        ANNEX II
Page 19 of 24 pages
the community incentive scheme are behind schedule. The combined effect of
delays in construction and in starting the two research studies has been a
slackening of disbursements. By June 30, 1979, the total cumulative dis-
bursement was $1,761,000 compared with the appraisal estimate of $9,824,000.
The rate of disbursement is, however, likely to accelerate as buildings
currently under construction are completed and withdrawal applications made.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977: Effective Date: March 31. 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy- has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project
start. Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February
1979. The Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and
the Center for Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While
monitoring and evaluation units for each component have been operational for
six months the central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project
Secretariat is just starting to be staffed. A mission is currently in the
field preparing the Mid-Term Evaluation Report. The Executive Directors will
soon be informed of the results.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.



- 47 -                        ANNEXI
Page 20 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra and
a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives, has
accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of July 10,
1975: Effective Date: August 28, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due
to some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on inter-island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of



- 48 -                        ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km is about to
start. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts
started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to rupiah construction
contracts had to be and still are being made. While remedial measures taken
in 1978/79 (and others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress
and disbursements, project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months
beyond the loan's present closing date. Project costs in US$ are likely to
be within appraisal estimates but rupiah costs are up significantly due to
devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  USS130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979:
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan became effective in August; the initial implementation
has been slow.
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million Credit of
June 28. 1972; Effective Date: October 19. 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed, and has been closed.
A completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40%O of the loan will be disbursed by the -



- 49 -                       ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
December 31, 1980 closing date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 50% devaluation of the
rupiah in November 1978; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the
reluctance of the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in
enforcing its safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that
the scope of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-
.            island ships and that an extension of the present closing date will be requested.
Ports
*            Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
first construction contract for Basin III back up facilities is progressing
slowly due to the impact of the rupiah devaluation. The regional berths
component has likewise been affected although a contract for the new works
had been awarded since December 1977. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost.  The Closing Date has
been extended by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is, however, expected to start in
1980 for completion by mid-1983.



- 50 -                       ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available by March 1980, at which
time the project would be substantially completed.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. The project progress is generally according to schedule. Upgrading
costs for the first two-year program have been within the appraisal estimates.
However, the costs for the third-year program was affected to some degree
by the rupiah devaluation on November 15, 1978. About 3,435 ha of kampungs
in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs.  Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities.
However, these difficulties are generally being overcome.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs.



- 51 -                      ANNEX II
Page 24 of 24 pages
WATER SUIPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Wlater Supply:  USS14.5 MIillion Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. All equipment supply and all major civil
works contracts, with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed
because of slow procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun
of about 30%, caused by increases in local costs due to proJect delays and
devaluation, is expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering has been completed, and the establishrient and development of
local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements
are expected to accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and
supplies are being delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second WTater Supply:  US$36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 52 -                                AIM EX III
Page 1
INDOIIESIA
FIFIEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Tiraetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  4 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Directorate-General of ITater
Resources Development, with consultant assistance funded by the UK
Government, and under the Tenth Irrigation Project (Ln. 1578-TNT).
(c)  Date of first Association mission to consider project: February 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  June 1, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  January 30, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  June 1980
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
iione
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(i)  employ consultants satisfactory to the Association by July 31,
1980 (para. 45);
(ii)  ensure that at all times adequate staff and funds would be
provided for proper O&M of all project works; appoint a
qualified and experienced assistant to the project manager for
operations and maintenance by October 31, 1980 and establish
an O&M plan satisfactory to the Association by July 31, 1981
(para. 53);
(iii)  provide adequate funds, staff, facilities, vehicles and equip-
ment for supporting the irrigation development at Dumoga
(para. 56);



- 53 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) promuulgate a decree establishing a Nature Reserve, covering
at least 100,000 ha of the Dumoga catchment, by July 31,
1980; take steps continuously to police and to halt all
logging activities in the Nature Reserve; and by July 31,
1980 enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
with the World Wildlife Fund for assisting the Directorate of
1iature Conservation in estabishing and operating the Nature
Reserve (para. 57); and
(v)  collect an adjusted IPEDA tax from the farmers after project
completion, and establish water users' association for each
tertiary network to collect appropriate water charges to ensure
sound O&M practices (para. 58).






IBRD 13784R
r   >         ,~~00<             <03' 0                                            t00                               1090                               0129                           1150                                 l X108                              1210                               124°  0C011B00T 100
MALAYSIA    SOUTH                                CHINA                 SEA
Serb,lgo             \>  t             :<<                k                                                                                ,2 MALAYSIA                                [
\ OR5atlua3roog2od,    C  -    A       i     o     SINAORf                                                                                                                   /                                    K
Sealtha1,N Ara                                       Vk                                                                     .                           -,,>'_>,    _ 
7,OOh  /                                    ',' l                                                                                                                                           '>( 
Stodorfa      Sj 'r                               g                                                                          '1Palng   -                                                                                                   f ,90a0
|olar                      Son5a. ';D-e                                                                                     K  A    L  I   M    A    N   T  A   N
> m  >itlt5pCre7it9t25.800ht                                                      V             \             i3raint5wdyAre~~~~~~~~~~~~~OomOOa A7rea7            o, q
¢  _        ,/KX \   \t ihA n  mSt                                                                       '                                                             54S)OCks                      5R                           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,lrree  ,' 1000 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b-oraXrlt80 S.ampn5 Pro-P EJart A0  iNEAJ3So
Preeooolp.rera                                                                                                         OiOr.eorro            2000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kp-    E
-3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ObarPrO ae                                                                                                                                                                          laehSdngSb oe
WYey Kand2s 5ub    prolt 00   _Suh712t 24,000 ha                                      uP9Orn90 'G                                                                                            10 oe / 
Sba-  Kae O       O 0 1L0 50              - s    u- e   3                                                                                                                                  LIarg Pole00          Ovdrol
'Oar,oskorar   OcajAaro-Orc 60,0000
P0r50l42000ha/20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    450001
W&DONESfA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Solo arrep 000 6000h0 Qre00 heeA Vep ro 
Rh GATlt NTPROONTPROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,Vbht0Cllo 1_22-00  Petlatluaf - ee  of ie 5 S e eWcf _1,e100ea
~~~~~~~~~UeR V E ohR dOhaol-                                                              8oro                                                                                                                                                      tOhE r pere c whicho is .earo
G,*~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~V K_di 1.2 _,,  &bmj. 2430 h.IOA  80L, h AtE                                               3,0  -         4Odh             Md) S9;-m                                                                                                                                      llCtC
wS.bo,ai-I 5,800 h.~bsrracreN80Th dooareleaocod OO 5
0     T WOAS                                 O200ee 3l0rAr           ordewa                                                               4dO,P.                                                                                                                        050,0 1  a h/rD Or EA ,  c
PeeerIOl Ae -      2215raar                                                                                                                                                                                doeGopl 0T.opreoftO
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/l   nDEte.T,                                                                   1.ot X evr5aA
IRRIGATION           PROJECT 1  XV000                              Ci  dkSh  y  Area                      Iraproy~ $aro                                                                                                        F/oes                  ea                 aedBoo ,osrbaooooe  orer'
lOOIRRtATliON PROJECTS   SfV                                                                                                                          OorOoOoBoFrOel-srioccrear=rZr1cor  =e e9oraoea 
IRRIGTIONPROJCTSr-XTI                                                                                                                        -           -. 3      r ooror.         =OMOI                                                                                 4.> 0crv  OmaOrIL=PIIb
90        -    -~~~~~tT IOTOIATIO2aAL BOUNDARIES M0.d- R./',,                                                                                                                                                                       0oALO    0                                               PACIFIC OCEAN
eatOraeOStRS            I,                                                                                                                                                                                      Sac, Nor          do0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to 
229,000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~lOOPI                                  0
0              100             Zo0              300
Too,          ~ ~~MILES      ioOe Sa II  I-                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1EAA
tflU3                                                                                                                                                         I          lf{D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rADIANOCEANd  aZZ  rCAoa
100'              i        D       3'                                   1000                                Il00                               1000                                                                    0  190 Q3 



