--~- ~
TP-URNI ITO
or person s.  nImay not be publed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group dos not accept regponsibity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK F~OR RECONSTRUCTON AND DEVELOPMESNT
INTER-NATIONAL DEVIELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
MALAYSIA
March 9, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURREEI &JIVALEITS
USED IN TEIIS REPORT
N $ 1.00     a    US$ 0.35
US$ 1.00     -    N $ 2.82
MSIJRES
1 mile - 1.6093 ka
1 acre  0.40147 hectares
FISCAL -  Ir
January lot - December,31st



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT IN MALAYSIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLIJSIONS ...... ............................
I.   INTRODUCTION ........         ................................    1
II.   THE SETTING ..................... ....................
Socio-economic background ......................            1
Economic development ...........................            2
Manpower requirements ..........................            3
ITI.   TIE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ....            ...............  4
The system and its problems ....          ................  4
Education development ..........................            5
Education finance ..............................            7
IV.   THlE PROJECT .........................................            8
Objectives ......................................           8
Project items ..................................            9
Cost of the project ............................    14
Implementation of the project ....          ..............    16
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................    17
Continued
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mlalaysia during September/October, 1971. The mission consisted of Messrs.
G. Pennisi (economist) S. Futagami (mass media specialist), F. Gamble
(general educator), R. Welter (architect), of the Bank and Messrs. M. Krohn
(technical educator, ILO) and D. Osborne (university science specialist,
consultant).



Table of Contents continued
APPENDIX
The Education and Training System
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative education indicators
2.   Actual and projected enrollments in assisted schools, 1965-1980
3.   Teacher requirements and supply, 1970-1980
4.   Education expenditure in relation to government budget and
GNP, 1963-1970
5.   Ministry of Education recurrent expenditure, 1970-1980
6.   Public investment on education and training, 1966-1975
7.   Capacity and staff of the project schools
8.   Estimated cost of the project
9.   Contingency allowances
10.   Unit capital costs in project institutions
11.   Forecast of disbursements
CHARTS
1.   The assisted education system, 1971
2.   Schedule of project implementation
M21AP



MALAYSIA
BASIC DATA - 1970
Population                                                      11.1 million
Population Growth Rate                                          3.1% p.a.
Employment (West Malaysia only)                                 2.9 million
Education
Enrollments: Assisted Schools
Primary education (Grades 1 - 6) -
ratio of enrolled to age group 6 - 11                           90%
Lower secondary education (Grades 7 - 9) -
ratio of enrolled to age group 12 - 14                          50%
Upper secondary general education (Grades 10 - 11 ) -
ratio of enrolled to age group 15 - 16                          20%
Upper secondary technical and vocational education -
ratio of enrolled to age group 15 - 16                          1%
Post-secondary general education (Grades 12 - 13) -
ratio of enrolled to age group 17 - 18                          4%
Higher education -
ratio of enrolled to age group 18 - 21                          1.5%
Private Schools
Ratio of private primary enrollment to assisted
primary enrollment                                              1%
Ratio of private secondary enrollment to assisted
secondary enrollment                                            8%
Expenditures:
Ministry of Education recurrent expenditure                     M$ 476.8 million
as a percentage of Central government budget                  18.6%
National educational expenditure                                M$ 652 million
as a percentage of GNP                                        5.4%
of which government                                           5%
private                                                       0.4%






APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT IN MALAYSIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in tMalaysia for
which a loan of US$15.5 million is proposed.
ii.        The major goals of Malaysia, a multiracial country of 11 million,
are to strengthen national unity and to accelerate growth and modernization of
the economy, by encouraging labor intensive programs in industry and services
and fostering diversification of agriculture. The education system, although
high1, developed in terms of enrollments, has begun only recently to reflect
these social and economic needs and some problems are not yet fully resolved,
e.g., educational opportunities differ greatly between urban and rural areas
and there is still an excessive emphasis on academic courses. In addition,
little use is made of modern educational methods and the level of staff qual-
ification throughout the system requires improvement. Partly due to these
problems, the country faces a shortage of skilled manpower and a growing
surplus of unsuitably educated labor force.
iii.      A first education project, aided by a Bank loan of $8.8 million
in 1969, is progressing satisfactorily. It is assisting the expansion of
technical, vocational and agricultural education. As a part of this project
the Government had promised to produce a long-term educational development
plan which would aim at gradually aligning the education system with the socio-
economic needs of the country and at reducing the imbalance between general
and technical/vocational education and in between rural and urban areas. This
plan has now been formulated and on this basis it has been possible to
prepare a second and broader project.
iv.       The educational strategy under this new plan aims at strengthening
national unity, meeting manpower requirements and giving proper emphasis to
science and technology. To achieve these objectives, the government intends
to consolidate the educational system (which is at present segmented by lan-
guape and race); to achieve gradually universal lower secondary education; to
place more emphasis on and rationalize technical and vocational training; to
expand and improve the university system; and to modernize curricula and
teaching methods at all levels.
v.        The proposed project would assist in the implementation of this
strategy by providing facilities for: (a) developing new curricula and
instructional techniques; (b) expanding technical and vocational education;
and (c) training graduate science teachers and other high level manpower.
Specifically, it would provide buildings, furniture and equipment for:
-    An Educational Development Center;
-    Educational television;



- ii -
- One technical and seven vocational schools; and
-  The Science Schools of the University of Penang.
vi.       A project unit already established in the Ministry of Education
would be responsible for the implementation and overall supervision of the
project. Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding. It is likely that all
civil works contracts would be awarded to local contractors. Construction
would be completed within four years of the effective date of the Loan Agree-
ment. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be awarded a
margin of preference equivalent to the existing customs duties applicable
to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is the lower.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$28.4 million.  The pro-
posed Bank loan would meet the foreign exchange component of the project
(US$14.6 million) and the local currency portion (US$0.9 million) of the
ex-factory cost of furniture and equipment which are likely to be procured
locally.
viii.     The project is suitable as a basis for a loan of US$15.5 million
to Malaysia.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first Bank loan to Malaysia for education was made in 1969
for an amount of US$8.8 million. At that time a well defined education
development strategy was lacking. Bank assistance was therefore limited
to obvious high priority items, mainly in technical, vocational and agri-
cultural education. Implementation of this project is proceeding satis-
factorily. A long-term education plan has since been formulated, which a
proposed second education project would assist in implementing.
1.02      Following a request from the Government for Bank financing, pro-
posals for a second project were prepared with the assistance of UNESCO in
July 1971 and appraised in September-October 1971 by a mission composed of
Messrs. G. Pennisi (economist), F.C. Gamble (general educator), S. Futagami
(mass-media specialist), R. Welter (architect) of the Bank and Messrs. M.
Krohn (technical educator, ILO) and D. Osborne (university science specialist,
consultant).
1.03      The new project would help in carrying out selected lines of the
Malaysian education strategy, the broad aims of which are to strengthen
national unity, meet manpower requirements and give proper emphasis to science
and technology. The government intends to finance from its own resources the
bulk of investments related most directly to promoting national unity, but
the proposed project would also contribute towards this. The Bank project
would introduce new courses and teaching methods, expand and improve techni-
cal and vocational education, and provide for training science teachers and
other high level manpower.
II. THE SETTING
Socio-economic background
2.01      Malaysia, a multi-racial country of about 11 million, is separated
into two parts (West Malaysia and East Malaysia) by the South China Sea.
Some 44% of the population are Malays and 36% are Chinese. The remaining
20% are evenly divided between those of Indian origin and the indigenous
races. About two-thirds of the population lives in rural areas. The popu-
lation, growing now at about 3% p.a., reflects the very high birth rate of
the late 1940's; consequently the working age population (15-64) is increas-
ing rapidly. A family planning program was initiated in 1966 and the Bank
has recently identified a project which may improve its 'effectiveness.
2.02      Employment largely follows racial lines; Malays predominate in
small agricultural holdings and, together with the majority of those of
Indian origin, serve as plantation workers, while Chinese are found mostly



- 2 -
in manufacturing, mining, construction and commerce. A main objective of
the government since Independence in 1963 has been to reduce racial and in-
come disparities between these groups, partly by upgrading the educational
background of the rural Malays, so as to improve social conditions and pro-
ductivity on the land and to prepare them for work in the modern sectors of
the economy.
2.03      GNP has increased at over 5% p.a. in the last 15 years and at
over 6% p.a. from 1965 to 1970. Economic growtlh has been accompanied by
changes in the structure of the Malaysian economy, traditionally based on
the exploitation of a rich endowment in natural resources (tin, rubber,
timber and palm oil).  Agriculture is still the mainstay of the economy
but its relative importance is declining both in terms of ourput and em-
ployment. The share of mining in GNP and employment is also decreasing.
At the same time, manufacturing is growing at well above 10%' p.a. and re-
presents 13% of CNP and 9% of total employment. The service sectors are
very large: including construction, they represent about 50% of domestic
production and 40% of total employment. The per capita income is now
nearly US$400, one of the highest in Asia.
Economic Development
2.04      The objectives of the First Malaysian Plan (FMP) 1966-1970, were
to increase agricultural and industrial efficiency, stimulate an export-
led growth, diversify production, and create new employment opportunities.
The achievements have been mixed: production and income have grown beyond
expectation but new investment particularly in the public sector has been
slow and job creation has not matched the increase in the working age popu-
lation.
2.05      Unemployment (exceeding 7% of the labor force in 1970) has reached
a particularly high proportion among new entrants to the labor force: as much
as 20% of the population in the 15-24 age group is unemployed and a growing
number of these have completed general secondary education. A large number
of those unemployed come from rural areas and have difficulty in being ab-
sorbed in the fast growing urban sectors. Along with a labor surplus,
Malaysia faces serious skill shortages, partly caused by the unsuitability
of the education and training system. The slow growth in investment and
employment referred to in the preceding paragraph is partly due to the
virtual stagnation of public investment since 1965, due in part to the
shortage of technical and professional staff to plan and implement an
adequate investment program; in 1969 the vacancy ratio for this category
of manpower in government service was 30%. Private employers also find it
difficult to recruit professionals, technicians and skilled workers. They
pay high salaries to attract high level manpower and arrange special training
programs to supplement the inadequate supply of skilled workers, thus making
the development of industry and services more costly.



2.06      Consequently, the Second Malaysia Plan (SNP) 1971-1975, is directly
geared to solving these problems of surplus of labor, shortage of skills and
inequalities in employment and income. To assist job creation, the economic
strategy of the SMP consists of: (a) encouraging labor-intensive programs in
industry and services; (b) opening up new areas for land settlement; and
(c) accelerating the diversification of agriculture. To supply skilled
workers, the SMP aims at aligning education and training more closely with
the needs of the economy. To reduce employment inequalities, the govern-
ment intends to facilitate the entrance of the Malay population to the modern
sectors of the economy.
Manpower Requirements
2.07      During the period 1970-1980, total employment is expected to in-
crease from about three million to about four million and labor productivity
by about 3% p.a. Employment in the rural sector is expected to increase by
no more than 1.5% p.a. but in industry and services it is estimated to grow
at about 4.5% p.a.  In 1980 about 60% (50% in 1970) of total employment
will be in urban related occupations. In order to achieve this growth and
transformation of Malaysia's economy, it is necessary to improve the occu-
pational distribution and the educational background of the labor force;
in 1970 only 0.6% of total employment was at the professional level, compared
with about 1.4% in Japan and the Philippines, and most skilled workers had
received only on-the-job training. It is estimated that to improve produc-
tivity, employment of high level manpower should grow at about 9% p.a.,
reaching 1% of total employment by 1980, and that at least one-third of the
skilled workers entering the labor force should receive either pre-service
or apprenticeship training. On this basis, manpower requirements over the
period 1970-1980 for the major occupational categories are estimated as
follows:
Manpower Requirements (1970-1980) due to:
Occupational                Expansion       Attrition          Total
Category
Professionals                 26,000          6,000             32,000
Sub-professionals             40,000         20,000             60,000
W4hite collar workers        100,000         60,000            160,000
Skilled workers              190,000         70,000            260,000
2.08      A comparison between the output of the educational system required
to meet the estimated manpower needs between 1970 and 1980 and the projected
outflow over the same period, shows that there will be shortages of about 7,000
at university level, 14,000 from junior and technical colleges and 28,000
from vocational training institutions, but there will be an oversupply from
upper general secondary schools of about 145,000.



2.09      These figures indicate that, while the projected supply of reneral
secondary school graduates is beyond the absorptive capacity of the labor
market as it now appears, shortages of university, technical and vocational
training graduates may still exist in 1980. On-the-job training of graduates
from general secondary schools will have to make up for the insufficient
supply from the vocational schools, even after an expansion of vocational
education, and the general secondary school curriculum is therefore being
revised to include some practical tralning.
III. TIE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
The system and its problems
3.01      The education system (Chart 1 and Appendix) is well developed in
many respects. About 90% of the 6-11 age-group is enrolled in primary schools
(grades 1-6), 50% of the 12-14 age group in lower secondary (grades 7-9) and
20% of the 15-16 age group in the upper secondary grades 10-11 (Annex 1).
Primary education, which together with lower secondary education is free, is
now given in Malay, Chinese, English or Tamil but the use of English as a
medium of instruction is being phased out and replaced by Bahasa lMalaysia,
the developing national language. Facilities and teachers' qualifications
are generally good in urban areas and most primary school pupils complete
the course.  Secondary education is given in English, Malay or Chinese;
academic standards are relatively high, especially in certain upper secondary
schools. About 13,000 or some 1.5% of the 13-21 age grouip are enrolled in
technical colleges and universities; here the quality of instruction is very
good. A further 12,000 are receiving higher education abroad. Non-formal
training, under various agencies, complements the formal education system.
Private primary school enrollments are negligible; at the secondary level
they amount to about 8% of those in assisted schools (governmient schools and
government aided schools run by non-profit organizations).
3.02      Educational planning, although improving, requires strengthening,
and cooperation among the agencies involved in education and training is
not sufficiently effective. As a consequence, education planning has only
recently begun to take into account manpower needs. Other problems are: (a)
insufficient capacity for training manpower at the post-secondary lev.'l;
(b) disparities of educational opportunities between urban and rural areas;
(c) an excess of general education as against vocational and technical
education; and (d) little employment of modern educational methods and
inadequate preparation of staff in their use.
3.03      The lower secondary school curriculum has been broadened to in-
clude practical subjects but courses in other subjects need revision and
modernization. At the upper secondary level (grades 10-11) about 95% of
the enrollment follows general education courses and only 5% is in technical
and vocational schools, despite the growing unemployment of school leavers
and the shortage of skilled workers.



- 5 -
3.04      Throughout the education system little use is made of modern in-
structional methods, such as audio-visual aids. Laboratory work is done by
the teachers and not by the pupils themselves. A beginning was made in 1968
to update science courses and teaching techniques but curriculum development
is conducted in an uncoordinated fashion and in-service courses for teachers
are too short to be effective. An adequate program to improve the quality
of teaching is needed because, although about 90% of all teachers have had
some form of teacher training and are regarded as qualified by government
standards, the educational background of many of them is inadequate. Out of
55,000 teachers in primary schools, about 20,000 had had no secondary educa-
tion before receiving their training. Only 3,000 of the 19,000 secondary
school teachers are university graduates and only 800 of these are science
graduates.
Education development
3.05      Malaysia's long-term education development strategy, spelt out
in the Second Malaysian Plan (SMP) 1971-75, aims at these problems.
Its major goals are:
(a)  To strengthen national unity.  The government intends to con-
solidate the education system, at present divided into var-
ious segments by languages and races, and to equalize educa-
tional opportunities between urban and rural areas. This
policy includes the phased adoption of Bahasa Malaysia as the
main language of instruction, the gradual achievement of
universal lower secondary education and the establishment of
special secondary schools for rural areas.
(b)  To meet manpower requirements.  It is intended to expand, im-
prove and rationalize vocational, technical and university
training. For teclhnician and skilled worker training, this
requires expanded facilities and improved cooperation by all
the agencies involved, effective liaison with employers and
a more practical orientation of courses. For the education
and training of high level manpower, expansion and better
distribution of responsibilities among the universities and
improved control of fellowships for study abroad is required.
Specifically, higher education institutions should provide
larger numbers for managerial and technical occupations.
(c)  To provide general education with an adequate component of
science and technology. For this, a larger supply of graduate
science teachers is needed and to this end the government
plans to expand and improve higher education. Curricula
and teaching methods will be modernized and made more relevant
to the Malaysian environment but better coordination between
curriculum development programs is needed. These advances
will be complemented by the use of new media including improved
visual presentation of science, mathematics and other subjects.



-6-
3.06      At the primary level and lower secondary level overall enrollment
growth is planned at 3.5% p.a. (5% p.a. over the period 1965-1970); this
would allow universal basic education of nine years by about 1990. To begin
the reorientation of education at early levels it is planned to improve in-
service teacher training (para. 3.04) and to reform curricula, mainly in the
fields of mathematics and science. The proposed project would complement
these efforts by facilitating curriculum developmnent and related in-service
teacher training and by introducing educational television (ETV).
3.07      At the upper secondary level both quantitative and qualitative
improvements are designed to align education more closely with manpower
needs and to place more emphasis on science. In general secondary education
(grades 10-11) it is planned to reduce the rapid growth of the past (17.7%
p.a. from 1965 to 1970) to 7% p.a., and to introduce practical subjects
and so begin to readjust the output to labor market needs. This output will
still exceed needs over the decade but a lower rate of expansion is not
considered feasible in view of the great increase in lower secondary enroll-
ments from 1965 onwards. An even more marked slowdown, 6.6% p.a. from 1970
to 1980 as against 23% p.a. from 1965 to 1970, along with a better regional
distribution of facilities, is planned for Form VI and Junior Colleges
(grades 12-13) in order to adjust their output to university intake and to
free resources for the expansion of technician training institutions (Annex 2).
3.08      Planned qualitative improvements include, firstly, the use of
education television in primary and secondary education to assist in intro-
ducing new curricula and in promoting the use of the national language.
Secondly, ten large residential secondary schools (grades 7-13) for 12,000
students are to be established in rural areas; these schools to be financed
by the government (para. 1.03), will emphasize science and practical subjects
and the curricula will relate to regional needs. This program will be
evaluated with methodological assistance from Unesco and could constitute
the beginning of an overall reform of secondary education. Finally, the
government plans to improve the quality of secondary teaching by increasing
the number of graduate teachers who by 1980 should represent 40%1 of
all secondary teachers compared with 17% in 1970 (Annex 3). In addition
to improving curriculum and ETV development, the proposed Bank project
would assist in increasing the supply and the quality of graduate teachers
of science for secondary education.
3.09      The targets in the SMP for secondary technical and vocational
education, indicative of government's plans to align education more closely
to manpower needs, show, during the period of the Plan, a 100% increase in
enrollment in technical and vocational schools (grades 10-11), in technician
training and in accelerated training under MARA* and the Ministry of Labor.
*    MARA (Majlis Amanah Ra'ayat - Council of Trust for Indigenous People): a
parastatal agency, under the Ministry of National and Rural Development,
to promote economic and social development, particularly in the rural
areas.



The expansion of technical and vocational education, assisted by the first
Bank loan (12 schools) would be further helped by the proposed Bank project
(8 schools). Courses are being revised to become more practically oriented;
a National Industrial Training and Trade Certification Board, with the
participation of Ministries, employers and labor organizations has been
established; and, at the local level, the existing "tracer" system 1/
is being strengthened. In addition, a long-term plan is being prepared for
the expansion of accelerated training and the coordination of training
schemes with the formal education system.
3.10      At the university level tlte SMP focuses on expanding and rational-
izing the system so that, as far as feasible, each university will specialize
in a different field (e.g., agriculture, science, graduate studies); it is
planned that enrollment in any one university will not exceed 8,000 students.
Total university enrollment is to increase from 8,500 in 1970 to 20,000 in
1980 and it is also planned that about 60% of the 1975 intake will be in
science, engineering and medicine.  Within this framework, it is anticipated
that new facilities will be provided for the University of Penang, which will
concentrate on sciences. A reduction is envisaged in the tTniversity of
Malaya total enrollment where graduate studies will be concentrated. An
agricultural university is being established through up-grading an existing
college for agricultural, technicians. The project would assist In carrying
out these plans for higher education by providing facilities for the Science
Schools of the UTniversity of Penang.
Education Finance
3.11      Financial responsibility rests primarily with the Federal Govern-
ment which finances entirely the capital and the recurrent expenditure of
all assisted schools, both publicly and privately owned. More than 90%
of enrollment in West Malaysia and Sabah is in assisted schools; in Sarawak
50% of the secondary students are in non-assisted schools. Assisted
schools can be privately owned and also partially privately financed, but
must conform to government standards and curricula. In these schools, pri-
mary and lower secondary education is free; fees at other levels of educa-
tion are accompanied by a large bursary program. In 1970, the recurrent
budget of the '4inistry of Education was equivalent to about 19% of government
total recurrent expenditure. Including expenditure under other Ministries
and private expenditure, the total educatlon effort of the country was
estimated at ahout 5.4% of C.N.P. (Annex 4).  Both these figures are high
In comparison with other countries in Asia.
3.12      The growth in expenditure of the Ministry of Education has been
about 87 p.a. from 1963 to 1970 but is expected to accelerate substantially
in the immediate future due to a recent re-organization of the teaching serv-
ice including an upward revision of salaries, bringing them to the same level
1/   A "tracer" system is a follow-up of graduates that includes job
counselling and keeping of employment records and provides information
used in adjusting the training programs to employment demands.



- 8 -
as those of other civil servants. The planned quality inmprovement will also
require increased recurrent costs per student/year which, at US$50 for primary
education and US$75 for secondary edlucation, are low for a country of Malaysla's
level of economic and educational development. It is tlherefore expected that
the share of the Ministry of Education in total government recurrent expendi-
ture will increase to 23% by 1975 and thereafter stabilize around that level
(Annex 5). This fairly high ratio conforms to the government's set of
priorities and can be maintained in view of the country's resources. Thus,
from 1970 to 1980, the recurrent budget of the Ministry of Education is
projected to increase, in 1970 prices, from M$477 million to about M$1,100
million. The recurrent expenditure generated by the proposed Bank project
in 1980 would be about M$20 million or some 3% of the additional cost.
3.13      Government capital expenditure on education over the First Malaysia
Plan 1966-1970 amounted to M$330 million or 8% of total public capital
spending. The SMP allocates some I"$540 million (Annex 6) to public expen-
diture on education or 7.5% of total public development expenditure over
the Plan period. High priority is given to improvement of general secondary
education (34% of the total), and expansion of technical and vocational
education (25%) and of the university system (16%). This pattern of planned
expenditure is consistent with the policies described in paras. 3.06 - 3.10.
r'ost of this capital expenditure will be financed domestically. It is ex-
pected, however, that capital assistance to agricultural education, in-
cluding the development of an agricultural university (para. 3.10), will
be given by the Asian Development Bank.  In addition a number of multilateral
(UYDP, Colombo Plan) and bilateral (UT.K., New Zealand, Australia and Canada)
agencies will provide technical assistance for implementing various parts of
the Plan in the areas of vocational teacher training, curriculum development,
and the provision of fellowships for MIalaysian students to study abroad.
IV. ITHE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would assist in implementing the Malaysian
educational strategy (paras. 3.05 - 3.10) by: (a) improving curriculum devel-
opment and in-service training of teachers; (b) introducing educational
television; (c) expanding technical and vocational education; and (d) in-
creasing the output and the quality of graduate science teachers and the
supply of high level scientific manpower. It would consist of the construc-
tion furniture and equipment of:



- 9 -
Student Places Boarding Places Staff Housing Units
Educational Development
Center (EDC)                      160              120
Educational Television              n.a. /1          n.a. /1           -
One technical and seven
vocational schools (grades
10-11) /2                       4,700            3,100              48
Science Schools of the University
of Penang                       3,140 /3           620              16
Total                        8,000            3,840              64
/1   n.a. - Not applicable
/2   Grades 10-12 in East Mfalaysia
/3   Includes 500 student places in the Center for Educational Services
for which only equipment would be provided.
Details of enrollment and staff requirements in the project schools are
given in Annex 7. The proposed schedules of accommodation are functional
and economical, e.g., utilization factors in the technical and vocational
schools are estimated at 90% for classrooms and 75% for workshops, based
on a 36-hour week.
Project Items
4.02      Educational Development Center (EDC).  Quality improvement in
education will require curriculum research and development, reform and
evaluation at various educational levels. The government is strongly
interested in these activities but they are now being undertaken in an
ad hoe and uncoordinated fashion; the premises are inadequate (para 3.04).
The present concentration of curriculum development is on science and math-
ematics at the primary and secondary levels and the programs are well con-
ceived but in-service courses to train teachers for the new curricula are
presently given in teacher training colleges during vacation, last only two
weeks and are too short to be effective. Other subjects requiring revision
are language, especially the teaching of Bahasa Malaysia, social sciences,
home economics and practical subjects where present curricula are not
entirely relevant to Malaysian needs.
4.03      The proposed project would provide construction furniture and
equipment for an Educational Development Center (EDC) where curriculum
development work would be carried out in a coordinated manner with neces-
sary facilities. In-service courses in the new curricula would be provided



- 10 -
for about 160 practising teachers; hostel facilities for 120 are necessary
to accommodate teachers coming from distant schools. The participation of
these practising teachers in the Centers' activities would hielp to ensure
the relevance of the work to actual conditions in the classroonm. In addi-
tion, the Center would include facilities for activitles closely related
to curriculum development work, including a textbook evaluation unit, a
textbook librarv and an audio-visual aids development unit. The inclusion
of this unit in the EDC would ensure a close link between culrriculum devel-
opment and educational television. The Center would have a staff of 73
professional officers, of whom 30 would be working on curriculum development
on secondment from schools.  The units that would be brought together in
the EDC have now about 50 professional officers of whom 15 are on secoudment.
4.04      The full responsibilities of the EPC within the Ministry of
Education are being studied by a government committee in charge of the re-
organization of the Ministry (Appendix, para. 1).  A five-year plan of
operation of the EDC setting out its tasks, the developmient of its staff
and technical assistance requirements together with sources of supply,
has been received, in outline, by the Bank. During negotiations, assuran-
ces were given by the government that this plan will be finalized and
sent to the Bank for comments within six months of the signing, of the Loan
Agreement.
4.05      Educational Television (ETV).  Malaysian schools, mainly those in
rural areas, are poorly equipped with audio-visual aids and a large number
of the teachers are under-qualified (para. 3.04). These factors are an
obstacle to the implementation of the new science and mathematics courses,
where teaching can be greatly assisted by visual presentation, and to the
consolidation of the system and the equalization of educational opportunities
between areas and races. To assist and upgrade the teachers and keep them
abreast of curriculum development, classroom instruction would be supplemented
by educational television.
4.06      The proposed project would provide:  (a) construction and part of
the equipping of a new studio for program production; (b) about 5,500 re-
ceivers for use in primary and secondary schools; and (c) the supply of 25
video-tape recorders to teacher training colleges and institutes and to the
State Audio-visual Aids Centers 1/. The new studio would replace out-moded
facilities that have been recently damaged by flood. Most of the studio
equipment is either being granted under British aid or financed domestically.
At full development, ETV programs are expected to cover about 500,000 primary
and secondary students and require a total of some 10,000 receivers. Of
this total fifty percent would be in assisted schools with substantial fi-
nancial resources; these schools either already own TV sets or will pur-
chase them from their own budgets. Therefore, the receivers provided under
1/   The 11 State Audio-visual Aids Centers coordinate at the local level
the distribution and the use of audio-visual aids lent by the M-inistry
of Education to the schools.



- 1 1 -
the project would mainly be for rural schools (5,000) and for a replacement
pool (500) for sets undergoing maintenance or repair. The supply of simple
video-tape recorders to teacher training institutions and to the State
Audio-visual Aids Centers would permit the pre-service and in-service train-
ing of teachers in the use of ETV.
4.07      The programs, whichi would be mainly concerned with science, math-
ematics, civics and languages, are being prepared by subject matter commit-
tees. Program producers have been trained with the assistance of CEDO
(Center for Educational Development Overseas, a British aid agency); Radio
TV Malaysia would provide the technical personnel. Adequate transmission
time (full day-time transmission for five days or 40 hours per week)
has been assured by Radio TV Malaysia and the Telecommunication Department
of the Ministry of Works, Posts and Telegraphs. Detailed and satisfactory
plans have been drawn up for the training of teachers and for a pilot schenme
with feed-back from selected schools. The government intends to launch
ETV in Januarv, 1973, after having evaluated this pilot scheme during the
latter part of 1972. The results of this evaluation would be made available
to the Bank. There is an adequate maintenance network for the TV receivers
in urban areas and the government intends to require the suppliers to
maintain receivers in rural areas. During negotiations the government gave
assurances that a plan for maintenance and repair of school TV sets, satis-
factory to the Bank, will be sent to the Bank promptly after the signing of
the Loan Agreement. The presentation of this plan will be a condition of
disbursement for this project item.
4.08      Technical assistance for teacher training and specialist services
for program production and evaluation are being provided by CEDO.  It is
expected that additional technical assistance will be provided by UNTDP.
The effectiveness of ETV would much depend on the support that ETV receives
at the local level. The State Audio-visual Aids Centers are expected to
play a vital role in training the teachers in the use of the new medium.
These Centers are now staffed with part-time officers.  During negotiations
assurances were given by the government that a full time education mass-media
officer will be appointed to each State Audio-visual Aids Center not later
tban January 1, 1973.
4.0(      Technical-Vocational Schools.  It is estimated that requirements
for graduates from technical-vocational schools under the M4inistry of Educa-
tion and from techinical-vocational training under other agencies would amount
to about 100,000 during thc period 1970-1980 and that tlhe total supply would
be some 75,000 including 8,000 graduates from the schools included in the
proposed project. More specifically, with the 12 schools of the first Bank
project and the 8 schools of the proposed project, the annual needs for
conmercial graduates (as they appear now) would be largely met, while there
will still be a substantial shortage of industrial graduates. At present,
however, it is not feasible to expand industrial training at a faster rate
than that envisaged because of shortage of technical teachers and until the
long-term detailed plan for accelerated training and of its coordination
with the formal education sector has been finalized (para. 3.09).



- 12 -
4.10      The project would provide construction furniture and equipment for
one technical and four vocational schools (grades 10-11) in West Malaysia
and for three vocational schools (grades 10-12) in East Malaysia. A
sufficient number of technical teachers, about 80 p.a. commenicing in 1972,
would be provided by the Technical Teacher Training College recently
established with Canadian assistance.  The vocational schools would give
courses in seven industrial trades (machine slhop practice, sheet metal
and welding, motor mechanics, electricity, electronics, refrigeration and
air-conditioning, and building construction) and in commerce.  The
vocational school in Sibu (East Malaysia) would also give slhort courses
(three months) in navigation and marine engineering.  In each school the
curriculum would be adapted to regional needs and, in addition to the
regular programs, short in-service training courses for workers already
in employment would be organized in collaboration with local industries.
In order to relate the type and quality of training more closely to local
needs, to make the existing "tracer" system (para. 3.09) more comprehensive
and to facilitate the provision of in-service courses, the government in-
tends to include representatives of employers in each school Board.  During
negotiations, the government confirmed this intention.
4.11      A large number of boarding places (about 65% of the student
capacity) is required to accommodate Malay students from rural areas and
facilitate their future employment in the urban sectors of the economy in
line with the government's policy of achieving more even racial balance in
towns (paras. 2.02 and 2.06). Staff houses for school principals and care-
takers are necessary owing to the residential character of the schools.
In Tawau (Sabah) a limited number of housing for teachers is required due
to acute housing shortage.
4.12      Science Schools of the University of Penang.  To support the educa-
tional policy described in paras. 3.05 - 3.10 a total of about 6,000 graduate
teachers of science is required over the period 1970-1980 (Annex 3). It is
also estimated that a further 5,000 of the projected requirements for high
level manpower during the decade would be for managerial and technical
occupations requiring a scientific background. The output of science
graduates from the University of Malaya, the National University and the
Agricultural University is expected to total about 4,000 over the period
1970-1980 and it is estimated that some 1,700 students of science will
return from abroad. It is planned that the Science Schools of the UJniver-
sity of Penang would graduate over the decade about 2,200, and would there-
fore contribute significantly to reducing the severe shortage of graduate
teachers and of other personnel with training in science. Shortages will
still exist in the early 1980's but a faster expansion of science education
at university level is not advisable because the projected annual supply of
science graduates when the existing institutions operate at full capacity
(about 1,100 p.a.) would be in line with the long-term annual requirements
as they now appear.



- 13 -
4.13      The University of Penang, established in 1969, is provisionally
accommodated in a teacher training college. The Schools of Natural Sciences
(Physics and Mathematics, Chemistry and Biology), of Cultural and Community
Studies and of Comparative Social Sciences are already functioning and have
a combined enrollment of 700, of which about 400 are in sciences. In addi-
tion, a Center for Educational Services gives pedagogical training to future
teachers enrolled in the various Schools of the university. The university
plans to establish Schools of Applied Sciences and Pharmaceutical Science in
the immediate future. Total enrollment in 1980 would be about 5,000 of
whom 3,000 in sciences. About one-third of the enrollment should be
boarders because of housing shortage in Penang.
4.14      The university is gradually moving to its new campus located
in former military facilities. The Administration, the Center for Educational
Services and the Schools of Cultural and Community Studies and of Comparative
Social Science will use existing buildings that are being renovated. Residen-
tial accommodation for about 1,000 students will also be provided through
renovation of existing facilities. The project would provide: (a) the con-
struction and equipping of the Schools of Natural Sciences, Applied Sciences
and Pharmaceutical Science and of communal academic facilities (a computer
center, a library and an auditorium); (b) the construction and equipping of
a residential hall for 500 students in the main campus, 120 boarding places
for a field station of the School of Biology and housing units for the warden
and 15 research fellows; (c) audio-visual equipment for the Center for
Educational Services; and (d) financing of the architectural master plan.
4.15      The Science Schools would have a total enrollment of about 2,650,
of whom 2,300 would be in the Schools of Natural Sciences. The Natural
Sciences undergraduate course would last three years; it is, however, ex-
pected that at least 25% of the Natural Sciences students would take a
fourth year course in pedagogy at the Center for Educational Services (para.
4.13). Only a small proportion (some 10%) of the students would enroll
in graduate programs.
4.16      The School of Pharmaceutical Science, which would be the only one
in the country, would use mostly the facilities of the other Science Schools
available on campus and cooperate with the pharmaceutical laboratories (11
in 1970) of Penang. The university would establish the only School of
Applied Science (e.g., metallurgy, rubber technology, food processing, polymer
science) in the country; private industry, which has already endowed three
professorships at the university, is expected to participate in the
formulation of the programs and in the provision of part-time lecturers and
internship schemes.
4.17      The communal facilities (computer center, library, auditorium) in-
cluded in the project would serve the entire university. The library would
provide seating capacity for some 1,800 students (or 34% of the enrollment
planned for 1980) and for 100 academic staff members and the auditorium would
seat about 2,500. The computer center would serve instructional purposes



- 14 -
and administration and - to a limited extent - research; the presenit colaiput-
ing facilities available in Penang are inadequate for administrative use andl
cannot be used for instructional purposes.
4.18      The University has already a core of highly competent academic and
administrative staff and a well conceived staff development plan, includling
a scheme for overseas training of new staff members toward Ph.D. degrees and
a program for research visits and in-service training abroad of existing staff.
The implementation of this staff developmient plan started in 1970 and is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily.  By 1980, about 90%) of the academic staff will be
Yalaysian; the University intends to keeD a srall irternational comlpolnent in
its teaching staff.
Cost of the Project
4.19      General.  Construction cost estimates have derived from recent
school and university building costs in Malaysia. The average cost per
square foot is estimated at about US$4 for the teclhnical and vocational
schools included in the project and at US$8 for the Science Schools of the
University of Penang. Furniture and equipment cost estimates are reasonable;
detailed lists would be prepared during the design stage and reviewedi by
the Bank before procurement.
4.20      The estimated costs and foreign exchiange components of the various
parts of the proposed projects are given in Annex 8 and summarized below:
Malaysian$ (millions)    US$ (million)          Percent
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total of Total
1. Educational Development
Center                      1.44    0.95    2.39  0.51    0.34    0.85   3.0
2. Educational Television    0.95    3.99    4.94  0.34    1.41    1.75   6.2
3. One technical & seven
vocational schools         10.84   10.18   21.02  3.84    3.61    7.45  26.2
4. Science schools of the
University of Penang       18.23   17.74   35.97  6.46    6.30   12.76  44.8
5. Contingencies:
Physical                  3.01    3.25    6.26  1.07    1.15    2.22   7.8
Price                     4.72    4.93    9.65  1.67    1.75    3.42  12.0
Total                    39.19   41.04   80.23 13.89   14.56   28.45 100.0



- 15 -
The estimated cost by various categories of expenditure is summarized below:
Malaysian$ (millions)    US$ (millions)          Percent
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total of Total
1. Construction
Academic & Communal    15.51    6.65   22.16  5.50    2.36    7.86   27.6
Boarding                  4.92    2.11    7.03  1.75    0.75    2.50    8.8
Staff Housing             0.70    0.30    1.00  0.25    0.11    0.36    1.3
Site Development          3.32    1.43    4.75  1.18    0.50    1.68    5.9
Professional Services   2.02    0.86    2.88  0.71    0.31    1.02    3.6
Sub-total        26.47   11.35   37.82  9.39    4.03   13.42   47.2
2. Furniture                 2.67    0.67    3.34  0.94    0.24    1.18    4.1
3. Equipment                 2.32   20.84   23.16  0.82    7.39    8.21   28.9
4. Contingencies
Physical                  3.01    3.25    6.26  1.07    1.15    2.22    7.8
Price                     4.72    4.93    9.65  1.67    1.75    3.42   12.0
Total            39.19   41.04   80.23 13.89   14.56   28.45  100.0
4.21      Contingencies.  Contingencies allowances are shown in detail in
Annex 9.  For unforeseen factors 10% is added to the cost estimates of site
development, construction, professional fees and equipment and 5% to the
cost estimates of furniture. Unit costs of 1971, in both local currency and
foreign exchange, are expected to increase by 5% p.a. and therefore an
additional 15% contingency has been included for civil works, furniture and
equipment. For the entire five-year implementation period (Chart 2), all
contingencies are equivalent to 24.7% of the basic cost of the project
before adding contingencies and to 20% of the total cost including contingen-
cies.
4.22      Foreign exchange components.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) site development, construction and profes-
sional fees, 30%; (b) furniture, 20%; and (c) equipment, 90%. Including
contingencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$14.6
million or 51% of the total project cost.



- 16 -
4.23      Estimated unit capital costs for the project institutions are shown
in Annex 10. Estimated costs per student place and per boarding place com-
pare well with estimated unit capital costs in institutions in other Bank
Group financed education projects; e.g., the estimated cost per studeilt
place in the vocational schools (about IJS$1,140) compares with an estimated
cost of about US$890 for the schools financed in Korea under Credit 151-KO
in 1969 and of about US$1,230 for schools financed in the Republic of China
under Loan 691-CIIA in 1970.
Implementation of the Project
4.24      Administration.  The existing project unit, established in the
Ministry of Education for tthe implementation of the first project, would be
responsible for overall supervision of the project and liaison with tihe
Bank. This was confirmed during negotiations. In preparing and issuing
tenders, evaluating bids and awarding contracts for civil works, the project
unit would collaborate with the Public Works Department of thte Ministry of
Works, Posts and Telegraphs. A maintenance and development unit has been
established in the Universitv of Penang to provide overall supervisioni of
that part of the project concerning this university and liaison between
the university authorities and the project unit.
4.25      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The Malaysian building
industry is large and competitive and it is not likely that foreign contrac-
tors will gain awards for civil works. The bulk of instructional equipment
may be procured abroad and furniture locally. Local manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the existing rates of import duties,
whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f price of competing imports.
4.26      Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competition and to permit bulk procurement. Design and supervision for
civil works of the ETV studio and the Science Schools of the University of
Penang would be the responsibility of consulting firms of architects
selected and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactorv to the Bank.
Work toward the preparation of the architectural master plan for the University
of Penang has already been started.  Design and supervision of civiJ works
of the other project items would be carried out by the Public Workts Department;
in particular, the technical and vocational schools would be patterned on the
standardized design developed for similar institutions in the first Bank
project.
4.27      Sites.  Suitable sites have been selected and acquired for the
EDC, the ETV studio, the University of Penang, and the vocational schools
at Klang, Kluang, Taiping and Tawau. During negotiations assurances were
given by the government that suitable sites for the technical and the other
vocational schools will be selected within six months from the signing of
the Loan Agreement and acquired in good time to avoid delays in construction.



- 1 7 -
4.28      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$15.5 million would finance
the foreign exchange cornponent (US$14.6 million) of the estimated total
project cost and the local currency portion (IJS$0.9 million) of the ex-
factory cost of furniture and equiprent which may be procured locally after
international competitive bidding (para 4.25). The loan would be disbursed
to meet:
(a)  100% of the c.i.f. price of directly im,ported
instructional equipment and furniture and of the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured furniture
and equi;pment;
(b)  70% of total expenditure of imlported and locally
procured furniture and equipment;
(c)  30,  of total cost for civil works and professional
services; this percentage representing the estimated
foreign exchange coniponent.
The above percentages would be adjusted as necessary to spread disbursements
over the implementation period of the project. Savings under one category
would be available to cover overruns in other categories or would otherwise
be available for cancellation. The estimated disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 11.
4.29      Retroactive reimbursement is recommended for the services of consul-
tant architects for the preparation of the campus master plan for the
University of Penang (para 4.26). This work has already started in order
to avoid delays in the implementation of the project. Retroactive reim-
bursement should cover expenditure subsequent to January 1, 1972. The
amount of expenditure before the date of the Loan Agreement is expected
not to exceed US$100,000, of which US$30,000 would be eligible for reimburse-
ment.
.V. AGREEFENTS REACHEFD AND RECOITENDATION
5.01      During the negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  the preparation of a five-year plan of operation for the
EDC (para. 4.04);
(b)  the preparation of a maintenance plan for school TV sets
and the appointment of full time educational mass media
officers to the State Audio-visual Centers (paras.4.07
and 4.08);



- 18 -
(c)  the includion of representatives of the employers in
the Boards of the vocational schools (para. 4.10);
(d) the responsibilities and staffing of the project unit
and of the maintenance and development unit at the
University of Penang (para. 4.24); and
(e) the selection and acquisition of sites for all the
project schools (para. 4.27).
5.02      The presentation to the Bank of a satisfactory maintenance and
repair plan for school TV sets will be a condition of disbursement for
this project item (para. 4.07).
5.03      Retroactive reimbursement is recommended for the services of
consultant architects for the preparation of the carmpus master plan for
the University of Penang (para. 4.29).
5.04      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a loan of
US$15.5 million equivalent to the government of Malaysia for a term of 25
years including a 5-year grace period.
March 9, 1972



APPENDIX
Page   1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration
1.        Under the Malaysian constitution, education is a federal responsi-
bility but the East Malaysian States of Sabah and Sarawak control their own
education systems for the present. In accordance with the Education Law,
this situation will be reviewed in 1973 and it is likely that following this
review the system will be gradually unified. In West Malaysia, administrative
and financial control are centralized in the Ministry of Education which also
contains the federal inspectorate; the operational structure of this Ministry
is presently under review by a government appointed committee. Sabah and
Sarawak each have their own Department of Education, providing administrative
and financial control and an inspectorate.
2.        The Education Planning and Research Division (EPRD) of the Federal
Ministry of Education is in charge of quantitative planning and co-ordination
of curriculum development and related in-service training activities. Al-
though EPRD was strengthened in 1969 in conformity with a requirement of the
first Bank loan for education, it is still inadequately staffed. In addition,
some of its functions in respect to other Divisions of the Ministry have
not been defined very clearly and this leads to overlapping of responsibili-
ties and duplication of work. A proposal has been recently made to separate
the planning and statistical sections from the education research sections.
The committee which is reviewing the operational structure of the Ministry
(para. 1 above) is expected to resolve these problems.
3.        The school inspectorate also requires strengthening.  It is, at
present, under-staffed and concentrates only on primary education. There
are over 1,400 primary teachers per inspector.
4.        Financial procedures have been recently improved.  The Ministry of
Education now employs a system of program and performance budgeting. Forward
budgeting for more than one or two fiscal years, however, is still carried
out on the basis of outmoded techniques.
Structure
5.        Schools are of three types:  government schools, government aided
schools run by non-profit voluntary bodies, and unaided private schools.
The first two types, generally known as "assisted schools" provide primary
and lower secondary education free of charge; fees charged in other levels
and types of education (about M$10 million annually) are accompanied by a
large bursary program (about M$15 million, annually including fellowships for
overseas studies). The school year runs from January to November.



APPENDIX
Page   2
6.        Primary education begins at the age of six and lasts six years.
The secondary course of five years comprises three years in lower and two
years in upper secondary schools; for the latter, entrance is selectively
based on a competitive examination. In West Malaysia all primary school
leavers are offered lower secondary school places: this system is being
extended to East Malaysia as facilities and funds become available. At
the end of the lower secondary course (grade 9) the Lower Certificate of
Education is taken. The School Certificate follows at grade 11 and the
Higher School Certificate at grade 13.
7.        Technical and vocational education (a two-year course in West
Malaysia and a three-year course in East Malaysia) is post-lower secondary
education. Upper secondary and technical students judged suitable for univer-
sities take a post secondary or Form VI course (called Junior College in East
Malaysia) which lasts two years. Post secondary education comprises four
technical and agricultural institutes and three universities. A fourth uni-
versity will be established in the near future. The graduates of Form VI and
the best students of post secondary institutes have access to the universities.
General Education
8.        Primary education (Grades 1-6) is offered in one of the four
languages used in instruction - Malay, Chinese, English or Tamil. In 1970
instruction in English in Grade 1 was discontinued, being replaced by Bahasa
Malaysia, the developing national language. By 1976 English will have ceased
to be a language of instruction but will be taught as a second language in all
schools. The total enrollment in 1970 amounted to 1.68 million, representing
some 90% of the 6-11 age group. The average rate of enrollment growth over
the past six years has been 3% p.a. About 48% of the pupils are girls.
Enrollments in private unaided schools are negligible. The system of automatic
promotion is followed and repetition rates are therefore nil. Dropout rates
are low in urban areas and in English medium schools but in East Malaysia one
pupil in four drops out during the six-year course.
9.        The total teaching force numbers about 55,000 giving a pupil/
teacher ratio of about 31:1. The government intends to increase this ratio
gradually to 35:1. This ratio is considered reasonable and teaching is
expected to be improved by the employment of new media and the upgrading
of the teaching staff. While only 12% of the teachers are regarded as
unqualified, a much greater number, some 20,000 or 36% are of low standards,
having had only primary education before the teacher training course.
These teachers are employed mainly in rural schools. The government is
trying to raise the standard of these teachers by in-service courses and
inspectorate visits and advice.
10.       The primary school curriculum stresses language; social studies
receive relatively little time but are partially covered in the language
classes.



APPENDIX
Page   3
11.       General secondary education had in 1970 a total enrollment of
530,000 in assisted schools. As a proportion of the relevant age groups,
this represents:
Enrollment
Level                                 Age Group               Ratio
Lower Secondary (grades 7-9)               12-14 years              50%
Upper Secondary (grades 10-11)             15-16 years              20%
Form VI/Junior College (grades 12-13)   17-18 years                   4%
Over 40% of the pupils were girls and this percentage is steadily increasing.
More than two-thirds of the pupils are taught in English, the remainder in
Malay or Chinese. Enrollment in non-assisted schools (45,000) was rela-
tively substantial only in Sarawak (15,000). When a pupil changes his
language of instruction in moving from primary to secondary school, he is
required to spend one year in a "remove" or transition class. In due course
(para. 8), Bahasa Malaysia will become the language of instruction in all
assisted secondary schools.
12.       About 19,000 teachers are employed in the assisted schools, giving
a reasonable pupil/teacher ratio of 28:1. However, only about 3,000 teachers
are university graduates and only about 800 of these are graduates in science.
13.       The curriculum is generally well balanced but little practical
work is done by the students themselves. The government is aware of this
and efforts are being made to improve the curriculum content in mathematics
and the sciences where an integrated science program is being adopted at
the lower secondary level and Nuffield type practical science courses will
be introduced at the upper level in 1972. These courses stress scientific
studies within the range of the pupil's own experience and emphasize the use
of simple home-made apparatus. They demand an innovative approach on the
part of the teacher and therefore require upgrading courses for practising
teachers. These courses are at present given in vacation time in the teacher
training colleges; they last only two weeks and are too short to cover the
work properly. At Form VI and Junior College level courses are very special-
ized and narrow as, for instance, in the Science Form VI where over 70% of
the time is spent on mathematics and science.
Technical and Vocational Secondary Education
14.       There are three upper secondary technical schools (grades 10-11)
in West Malaysia with a total enrollment of about 2,000; five schools are
under construction as part of the first Bank education project and will
provide a further 3,200 places by 1974. The objective of these schools is
to provide the students with a good general education together with train-
ing in engineering, commerce or agriculture. About two-thirds of the



APPENDIX
Page   4
graduates enter post-secondary colleges or Form VI classes (grades 12-13)
with a view to university education. The remaining one-third are employed in
government departments or in the private sector and become junior technicians
througlh experience and on-the-job training.
15.       Vocational training in industrial and commercial skills is given
in West Malaysia in seven vocational schools (grades 10-11) and in East
Malaysia in three vocational schools (grades 10-12). The total enrollment
in industrial courses is about 2,900 and in commercial courses 700. The
first Bank education project will provide by 1974 six more schools with a
total of 3,840 places. In West Malaysia, the training leads to the Malaysian
Vocational School Certificate, which is regarded as equivalent to the general
secondary School Certificate. In East Malaysia, the industrial courses last
three years and lead to City and Guilds examinations. Commercial courses are
of one or two years duration. In both West and East Malaysia, the graduates
are in great demand by industry: the "tracer system" (para. 3.10), organized
in most schools indicates that, after graduation, most are employed in the
trade in which they have been trained.
Non-Formal Vocational Training
16.       The Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Kuala Lumpur under the
Ministry of Labor provides vocational training for apprentices and prepara-
tory trade courses for school leavers. Although its student capacity is
about 450, the present enrollment is only 350. The ITI is underutilized
mainly because of the still insufficient demand by the employers for its
apprenticeship scheme. This scheme lasts four years and the apprentices
spend 22 weeks at the ITI during their first year and 11 weeks in each of
the subsequent years.  About 150 apprentices receive their certificates
annually. Malaysian industry is still reluctant to employ apprentices but
the preparatory trade course graduates find ready employment. Another ITI
is to be established at Prai with assistance from the Federal Republic of
Germany.  MARA's 1/ edtucational activities inclule four vocational trainin);
centers with a total enrollment of about 500; three more centers are planned
which will bring the total enrollment to 3,000. In addition, MARA supports
on-the-job training by providing the participants with allowances during
the period of training. The National Youth Training Center under the Ministry
of Culture, Youth and Sports has an enrollment of about 500, but only 7% of
its students have found employment in their respective trades, the main
reason being the irrelevance of the training.
17.       Numerous short-term courses are provided by several Ministries
and industrial concerns. There are no reliable figures on their enrollment,
type of course, teachers, etc.
1/   MARA (Mahlis Amanah Ra'ayat - Council of Trust for Indigenous People) -
parastatal agency, under the Ministry of National and Rural Development,
to promote economic and social development, particularly in the rural
areas.



APPENDIX
Page   5
Agricultural Secondary Education
18.       At the lower secondary level an increasing number of schools offer
agriculture as an elective subject. Agricultural science is also taught in
a limited number of upper secondary schools. The Ministry of Education has
recently established two agricultural vocational schools (grades 10-11) each
with an annual intake of 80 students. The Ministry of Agriculture has two
schools of agriculture (grades 10-12) which train junior agricultural assis-
tants; three more schools of agriculture are under construction as a part of
the first Bank education project, which will increase the total enrollment
at this level from 500 to 1,400 by 1974.  The schools under the Ministry of
Agriculture, where experienced extension workers are teaching the practical
subjects, are of good quality and have a strong practical orientation. The
vocational agricultural schools under the Ministry of Education are weaker
because the content of the program is too general and the instruction too
academic; as a result, the employment record of their graduates is poor. It
would be advisable to rationalize agricultural education by concentrating
training in crop and animal husbandry under one single Ministry and by plan-
ning its development in alignment with the expected demand from the public
sector (which employs more than 80% of trained agricultural manpower).
Primarv and Lower Secondary Teacher Training
19.       In West Malaysia, primary and lower secondary school teachers are
trained in a two-year course following the School Certificate. In 1970, there
were six primary teacher training colleges with a total enrollment of nearly
1,400. Lower secondary teachers in training in 1970 numbered 1,100 in four
institutes of which one trains teachers of practical subjects. Three lower
secondary teacher training institutions were being used for other purposes,
two for university work and one for intensive courses in teaching Bahasa Malay-
sia. The numbers enrolled in teacher training colleges and institutes have
declined sharply in recent years because the government intends to increase
the class size at the primary level and the proportion of graduate teachers
at the secondary level.
20.       In East Malaysia, the shortage of suitably qualified entrants for
teacher training is such that lower entry standards are still accepted.
Primary school teachers are trained in a three-year course following primary
school graduation or in a two or three-year course following some lower se-
condary education. As in West Malaysia, the course for secondary teachers
lasts two years following the School Certificate. Total enrollment in these
courses in 1970 was about 1,350 and the output 450 primary and 120 secondary
teachers.
21.       Although the teacher training curriculum allocates sufficient time
to practical training, more emphasis needs to be placed on training the stu-
dent-teachers in the use of new media, including audio-visual aids.



APPENDIX
Page   6
Technical Teacher Training
22.       Technical teachers for the vocational schools are trained at the
Technical Teacher Training College established in 1970 in Kuala Lumpur with
Canadian assistance. The training programs last three years and include a
sufficient amount of teaching practice. To obtain industrial experience,
the student-teachers participate in internship schemes organized in collabor-
ation with employers. The annual output of the Technical Teacher Training
College will be about 80 and the first group will graduate in 1972.
23.       Technical teachers for the technical secondary schools come from
the Kuala Lumpur Technical College and the Faculty of Engineering of the
University of Malaya. In addition to their regular studies in these insti-
tutions, they attend courses in pedagogy at the Technical Teacher Training
College.
Post-Secondary Technical and Agricultural Education (Grade 12 onwards)
24.       Post-secondary technical and agricultural education is given in
four institutions, all of good quality. The Ungku Omar Polytechnic (enroll-
ment 450), recently established at Ipoh, trains technicians in a 2-1/2 year
course which includes 26 weeks of practical experience in industry. The
Kuala Lumpur Technical College (enrollment 1,000) gives three-year courses
in architecture, engineering, land and quantity surveying, and town and coun-
try planning. The MARA Institute of Technology (enrollment 2,800) has inter
alia a School of Engineering with an annual intake of 40 students at the di-
ploma level and of 75 at the degree level. A rapid increase in enrollment
in post-secondary technical education is planned (para. 3.09) and accords
with estimated manpower requirements. The increase, however, is likely to
move at a pace slower than that envisaged in the Second Malaysia Plan, 1971-
1975, since adequate consideration has not been given to the shortage of
teachers for this level and type of education.
25.       The Agricultural College at Serdang (total enrollment 600) offers
a three-year diploma course. This college has very good facilities and is
well located. In the near future, it will be upgraded to become the Agricul-
tural University of Malaysia. It is planned that the diploma course will be
retained and that the output at this level will be about 300 p.a. from 1974
onwards.
University Education (Grade 14 onwards)
26.       Until 1969 only one University existed in Malaysia, the University
of Malaya in Kuala Lumpur. In 1967 the Higher Education Planning Committee
(HEPC) recommended the establishment of two more universities. These have
now been established, both in temporary premises (para. 19), one at Penang
and the other, the National University, at Kuala Lumpur. The National Uni-
versity specializes in Islamic studies and uses Bahasa Malaysia as the lan-
guage of instruction; its permanent location has not yet been decided. The



APPENDIX
Page   7
other two universities use English as a language of instruction but students
are required to become proficient in Bahasa Malaysia. In 1971, total univer-
sity enrollment was 9,500 of which over 40% were in arts courses and less
than 20% in science courses. This imbalance will be redressed with the de-
velopment of the University of Penang where 60% of the students will be in
science. Academic standards are high in all the three universities.
27.       The 1970 enrollment at the University of Malaya was 7,600: it in-
creased to 8,300 in 1971 but is expected to stabilize at around 8,000; this
University will concentrate on graduate studies. Both the University of
Penang (1970 enrollment 260, 700 in 1971) and the National University (1970
enrollment 190, 600 in 1971) are developing rapidly. In addition, it is es-
timated that about 12,000 Malaysians are taking higher education courses
abroad. Many of these students are privately financed and details of the
courses followed are not generally available.






0   2 2~~~~~~   8888                                                                                                                                                              ;
0      - 0  0~ ~~~~.   .o   ....* ,0                                    .- 0 .                    0,                                                   .       ..                   00 - .0      
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _                                     JO   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  __~9






M A L A Y S I A
Aetual (1965 a 1970) and Projected (1975. 1280) Barollinents in AsBlsted
-   Schoolsg (in JbgR2sd}   -Annual % Increases
1965         1970                1975          1980    1965-1970        1970-1980
Grades
1-6  Primary education           1421          1679                1937          2190       3.4              2.7
West Malaysia               1217          1421                1600          1800       3.1              7
East Malaysia                204           258                 337           390      4.8              4.2
7-9  Lower Secondary              252           418                 558           743      10.6              5.9
West Malaysia                232           379                 giT            m       10.3              v
East Malaysia                 20            39                  58            93     14.3              9.1
10-11 Upper Secondary              44            99                               197      17.7              7.1
West Malaysia                0:             9                 120           170     16.               67
East Malaysia                 3            10                  17            27      27              10.5
10-11 Technical and
Vocational Training          2.5           5.5                 13            20     17.1             13.8
12-13 Sixth Form                   4.2          11.6                 16            22       23              6.6
West Malaysia                37           10h.6               17.            20      25               g7
East Malaysia                0.7           1.0                 1.5            2     7.4               7.2
12-13 Technical Colleges           1.0           5.2                 13            20       39             14.4
12-13 Teacher Training            10.2           4.8                  5             5    - 14               0.4
14+   University                    2.8          8.%                 13            20       24               9.5
Source: Government data and Bank staff projections based on announced government.
policies.
November, 1971






M A L A Y S I A
Teacher Requirements and Supply 1970-1980
Requirement s
1t1980                    1/                                     Additional          New
Actual                Target           1971-1980             Type of Teachers           Requirements       Supply
1971-1980      1971-1980
Primary education:
Enrollmnt                                 1,679,000             2,190,000
Pupil/teacher ratio                               31                   35
Teachers-total                               55,ooc                63,000            17,000            Primary school teachers         17,000         17,000
Secomiary edwcationl:
Secondary school teachers:     20.590        19,200
Enrollment                                  529,000              962,000
Pupil/teacher ratio                               28                   28                                 - Colege Trained              7,700          8,000
Teachers -total                               18.900               34.500            19,600               - Arts Graduates              57,76o         7,200
-Scierce graduates                             800                58500              5,200
-Arts graduates                              2,4o0                 8,300             6,700
-non-graduates                               15,700               20,700             7,700
Technical/VocatiOnal Sec. education:                                                                   Technical teachers              i1,20             900
Earollme nt                                   5,500                20,000                                - College Trained                960           700
Pupil/teacher ratio                              18                    18                                - University Trained             300           200
Teachers-total                                   300                - ,100            1,000
-Science graduates                               35                  110               100            Agricultural teachers              300            300
-Arts graduates                                  70                  245               200
-Engineering graduates                           15                   45                40              - CoLlege Trained                 100          700
-Non-graduates                                  180                  700               660              - University Trained              200          200
Technical Colleges:                                                                                    All teachers                     39,150       37,400
Enrollment                                    5,200                20,000
Pupil/teacher ratio                              13                    17
Teachers-total                                  400                 1,200              S5g.
-Science graduates                              200                  600               460
- Arts graduates                                100                  300               230
-Engineering graduates                          100                  300               260
Non-Formal Training
Industrial Training Institut                     350                1,200
MARA Training Center                             500                3 000
Total enrollment               "        4,                    2 -Ri
Pupil/teacher ratio                              14                   1t4
Teachers-total                                    60                  300               300
(all non-graduates)
Agricultural education
Enrollment                                  1,400                 5,000-
Pupil/teacher ratio                            15                    15
Teachers-total                                  90                  330                300
All teachers                                74.660               ionlOO              39,150                                                                 |
1/ Includes replacement needs estimated at 1.5% p.a. for general school teachers and 3% p.a. for technical and agricultural teachers.
2/ Includes 1500 graduates front the University of Penang.
Source:  Government data and Bank staff projections based on announced government policies.
November, 1971.



M A L A Y S I A
Education Expenditure in relation to Government Budget and GNP
-($m nmiion)'
1963              1965            1967            i969        1970
1. Ministry of Education Expenditure: Total          319.0             404.5           442.0           481.5      547.
(Recurrent)                                    (262.8)           (338.0)          (385.6)        (438.8)    (476.8)
(Capital)                                      ( 56.2)           ( 66.5)          ( 56.4)        ( 42.7)     (70.5)
2.  Other Ministries' Education Expenditure a/         n.a.              n.a.             14.9           46.6       49.7
3.  Private Sector's Education Expenditure  b/         n.a.              35.3             38.2           45.0       55.o
4. Total Education Expenditure of the
country (1 + 2 + 3)                               n.a.               n.a.           495.1           573.1      652.0
5. Ministry of Education Expenditure
as percentage of Government Total
Expenditure                                        17.4%             18.3%           16.1%           16.1%       17%
6. Government's Education Expenditure
as percentage of Government Total
Expenditure                                        n.a.              n.a.             16.6%          17.6%     18.6%
7. Ministry of Aiucation Expenditure as
percentage of GNP                                   4.2%              4.5%             4.6%           4.3%      4.5%
8.  Total Education Expenditure as
percentage of GNP                                  n.a.              n.a.              5.1%           5.2%      5.4%
a/   Includes expenditure by Ministry of National and Rural Development, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Labor.
educatlon expenditures by other Ministries are negligible.
b/   Includes expenditure by local authorities, costs of private schools and school fees collected.
Source:  The Ministry of ducation, the Department of Statistics and Bank staff estimates.
November 1971.



M A L A Y S I A
Ministry of Education Recurrent Ecpenditure 1970 - 1980 *
(>I$ million)
1970          1975           1980                         Annual A Increase
1970-1975      1975-1980       1970-1 980
Administration
and other
expenditures 1/          72.7         104.6          1L1.2                   7.5             6.3             6.9
Primary Education       235.9         364.2          453.3                   8.6             4.5             6.5
(West Malaysia)       (209.0)        (312-7)        (371.7)                ( 8.3 )         ( 3.5 )         ( 5.9 )
(East Malaysia)       ( 26.9)        ( 51.5)        ( 81.6)                (13.8 )         ( 9.7 )         (11.7 )
Secondary Education    108.0          206.9          308.8                  13.9             8.3            11.0
(West Malaysia)        (102.5)       (177.7)        (265.6)                (11.6 )         ( 8.3 )         (10.0 !
(East Malaysia)        (  5.5)       ( 29.2)        ( 43.2)                (39.0 )         ( 8.3 )         (23.0 )
Technical-Vocational     3.2            7.5           12.8                  18.6            11.2            15.0
Education
Teacher Training         14.8          17.5           21.0                   3.4             3.6              3.5
Higher rducation         42.2.          86.5         140.0                   15.0            10.0            12.7
Total:        476.8         787.2         1077.1                  10.5              6.5             8.4
as a percentage of
Central Government
recurrent expenditure  19.0%            23.0%        23.0%
* 1970 estimates; 1975, 1980 projections.
1/ Includes expenditure on hostels, scholarships and educational radio and television.
Sources: For 1970 "The Ependiture budget of the Federal Government of Malaysia, 1971 ";for 1975 and 1980, Bank Staff
estimates, based on enrollment and teacher projections (Annexes 2 and 3) and the new salary scale.
Noveriber, 1971.



ANNEX 6
M A L A Y S I A
Public Investment on Education and Training, 1966-1975
(M$ million)
1966-1970         1971-1975      Increase/Decrease (-)
(Actual)         (Planned)             (In !)
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                     255.6             446.)                75
West Malaysia                         213.1              370.1                74
Primary Education                      48.5               55.1                14
Secondary Education                   100.7             1514.4                53
Technical Education                    10.8               42.9               297
University                             24.4               87.0               262
Teacher Training                        9.7                3.0               -70
Other Programs                         19.0              27.7                 46
East Malaysia                          42.5               78.4                85
Sabah                                  16.5               36.0               118
Sarawak                                26.0              42.4                 63
OTHER AGENCIES                            73.8               88.8                20
Ministry of Labor                       0.8                3.7               362
M.A.R.A.Vocational Institutes          64.0              42.2                -34
M.A.R.A.Institute of Technology         9.0              42.9                376
TOTAL                                    329.4              537.3                63
Source: Second Malaysian Plan
November, 1971



ANNEX 7
M A L A Y S I A
Capacity and Staff of the Project Schools
Boarding   Teaching
Student Places              Places      Staff
(Industry) (Commerce)
Vocational Schools
Taiping                                 56o         160                540        42
Kluang                                  56o         160                540        42
Klang                                   560         160                540        42
Temerloh                                560         160               540         42
Sibu                                    420*'        60               180         31
Miri                                    240           60              180         25
Tawau                                   360          40               300         28
Technical School
Kuala Trengganu                         480          160               280        23
University of Denang
School of Physics & Mathematics               1,100  )                           100
School of Chemistry                             800  )75
School of Biology                               400  )                            40
)               620
School of Applied Sciences                      250  )                            20
School of Pharmaceut. Sciences                   90  )                             9
Center for Educational Services                 500  )                            40
*  Includes 120 student places for a course
in navigation and marine engineering.
November, 1971



Mi A I A C 5 I A
3econd Ed.cotlos pro oct - Susasory of isriasao  Cos
(in Malaysian $ Thos-ds and US2  Thousands)
Construct o r'
No.            Project Item                    Site DBocLopruc-t  Acad, d    Cnopnana     Boarding          Staff Housing          Total              Furnituro -Esionnt                     P-ofess -noi-cen        Total Casts
M$   -EC          M$       US$          MS     US$           $    US$          M$      US$           M     uss          M $     1L0S           Ms  -0s$           MS      rSs
1.      Edu-ational Develop-ent Coler            222      79         974      345        505      179                          1,479      524         255     90         430        I53          -      -        2,386       846
2.      Educational lelevision                    80      29         525      186                                                525      186          60      21      4,190     1,486           85     30       4,940    1,752
3.      Secondary Vocational Schools
3-A     Perek - laiping                          291     103         777      275        593      210        45      16        1,415      501         154      55        931        330                          2,791       989
3-B     Johore - Kl-ang                          312     111         814      289        621     220         47      17        1,482      526         165      59        931       330                           2,890    1,026
3-C     Selangor - Klang                         270      96         740      263        565      200        43      15        1,348      478         145      51        931       330                           2,694       955
3-D     Pahang - Teernoh                         334     118         851      302        650     231         49      17        1,550      550         176      62        931       330                           2,991    1,060
3-E     Sarawak - Sibu                           308     109         697      247        271       96        65      23        1,033      366          97      35        711       252                           2,149       762
3-F     Sarawak - Mii                            268      95         690      245        320      114        77      27        1,087      386         103     37         681       242                           2,139       760
3-C     Sabah - T-wau                            294     104         794      282        680      241       356    126         1,830      649         176     62         926       328                           3,226    1,143
Secondary Tochnical School
3-H     Tre-ggana - Koala Tre-gganu              234      83         519      184        601      213        52      19        1,172      416         132     47         607        215                          2,145       761
SBb-Total         2,311      819       5,882   2,087      4,301    1,525        734    260        10,917   3,872       1,148    408        6,649    2,357           85      30      21,025    7,456
4.      University of Penang
4-A     School of Physics & Mathematics          230      82       2,296      814                                              2,296      814         253     90       1,782       632         354    125        4,915    1,743
4-B     School of Chemical Sciences              270      96       2,701      958                                              2,701      958         297    105       1,500       532         416    146        5,184    1,938
4-C     School of Biological Sciences            274      97       2,740      972                                              2,740      972         302    107       1,725        612        422    150        5,463     1,937
4-D     School of Applied Sciences               102      36       1,020      362                                              1,020      362         112      40.        704       250         157     56       2,095       744
4-E     School of Pharmaceutical Sciences         41      14         404      143                                                404      143          45      16         204        72          62     22         756       267
4-F     Lecture Theaters                         113      40       1,130      401                                              1,130      401         124     44          149       53          174     62       1,690       600
4-G     Computer Ceter & Central Facilitins  65           23         651      231                                                651      231          50      18      1,950       691          100     35       2,816       998
4-H     Library                                  278      99       2,776      984                                              2,776      984         305    108       3,200    2,135           428    152       6,987    2,478
4-I     Auditorium                               106      37       1,063      377                                              1,063      377         117     41          150        53         164     58       1,600       566
4-J     Residential Hall                         250      89                           2,220      787        270     96        2,490      883         274      97         150        53        384    136        3,548    1,258
4-K     Master Plan & Site Development           405     144                                                                                                                                    130     46         535       190
4-C     Center for Educational Services                                                                                                                                   399       135                            390       135
Sub-Total         2,134      757      14,781   5,242      2,220      787        270      96       17,271   6,125       1,879    666       11,894    4,218        2,791    988       35,969   12,754
Total Cost before Contiugencieo                4,747   1,684      22,162   7,860       7,026   2,491       1,004    356       30,192  10,707        3,342  1,185      23,163    9,214        2,876  1,018       64,320   22,808
Febrsary, 1972



M A L A Y S I A
Contingency Allowances (US Dollars 000's)
Site Development      Building         Furniture         Equipment      Prof. Services
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign          Total
Allowances for
Physical factors    %    10%      10%       10%     10%      5%      5%        10%     10%       10%     10%
Amount    118       50      750     321      47      12         82     740        71       31
Allowances for
Price increases     %    15%      15%       15%     15%    15%      15%        15%     15%       15%     15%
Amount    177       75    1,125     481    141       36        123   1,110       107       46
Total                  %    25%      25%      25%     25%    20%      20%        25%     25%       25A      25%       24.7%
Total cost before
contingencies           1,180     504    7,495   3,212    948       237        821   7,393       713      305     22,808
Contingencies               295     125    1,875      802    188       48        205   1,850       178       77      5,643
Total cost includ-
ing contingencies       1,475     629    9,370   4,014  1,136       285      1,026   9,243       891      382     28,451
February, 1972



M A L A Y S I A
Capital Unit Costs in New Project Institutions /
(In US Dollars)
Gross Area/     Site                                                Unit Capital Costs
Student place  Develop--                                           in other Bank Group
(sq.ft.)     ment    Building  Furniture  Equipment  Total    financed projects
Academic & Comimunal Facilities
Secondary Vocational Schools          112          105        468        40         528     1,141 )1,228*  (China)
) 888   (Korea)
Secondary Technical School              71          57        288        32         468       845 )
University of Penang - Science
Schools                              175         136      1,357       149         815     2,457  3,800   (Singapore)
Boarding
Secondary Vocational Schools            91          94        465        70          -        629   1,170  (Gameroon)
Secondary Technical School              91          89       444         66          -        599      475  (Ivory Coast)
University of Penang                   207         153      1,528       168         106     1,955   2,300* (Zambia)
2,600 (Singapore)
Staff Housing Units
Secondary Vocational & Tech-                                                                              *
nical Schools                        833       1,071     6,117         -           -      7,188   6,559  (Dominican
Republic)
University of Penang                 1,152         745      7,445        -                  8,190  11,617* (Pakistan)
1J Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
*    1970 prices.
**~ 1971 prices.
February, 1972.



ANNEX 11
M A L A Y S I A
Second Education Project - Forecast of Disbursements
Total Balance
Quarter*      Quarterly Disbursements    Accumulated Disbursements       Undisbursed
I         US$ (000's)       %        US$ (000'S)        US$ (000's)
1          0.2            31.0         0.2            31.0            15,469
2          0.3            46.5         0.5            77.5            15,422.5
3          1.0           155.0         1.5           232.5            15,267.5
4          2.3           356.5         3.8           589.0            14,911.0
5          2.0           310.0         5.8           899.0            14,601.0
6          5.0           775.0        10.8         1,674.0            13,826.0
7          8.9         1,379.5        19.7         3,053.5            12,446.5
8          3.6           558.0        23.3         3,611.5            11,888.5
9          2.8           434.0        26.1         4,0455            11,45415
10          7.5         1,162.5        33.6         5,208.0            10,292.0
11          3.0           465.o        36.6          5,673.0            9,827.0
12         10.0         1,550.0        46.6         7,223.0             8,277.0
13          5.4           837.0        52.0          8,o60o0            7,440.0
14         10.4         19612.0        62.4          9,672.0            5,828.0
15         20.2         3,131.0        82.6        12,803.0             2,697.0
16          4.7           728.5        87.3         13,531.5            1,968.5
17          6.4           992.0        93.7        14,523.5              976.5
18          2.3           356.5        96.0         14,880.0              620.0
19          2.6           403.0        98.6        15,283.0               217.0
20          1.4           217.0       100.0        15,500.0                 0
*  Starting from the date of effectiveness
Source: Chart 2.
February 1972.






MALAYSIA
THE ASSISTED EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1971
PRIMARY                                        SECONDARY                                  POST-SECONDARY
1    2    3  AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL'
|   CE
;            ~~~VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS
ENGL.ISH PRIMARY                                                                   LJ|IJ
CONVERTING TO MALAY                                                          <1                IpOH POLYTECHNIC                        DPOAI
4       3                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDUCATION
U. OF MALAYA
s                     ~~~~~~~U. OF PENANG
_ _' |    <3          NATIONAL UNIVERSITY
TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
1    2    3  COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE (SERDANG)
EXAMINATIONS
LCE-Lower Certificante of Education                                                                    1                         MARA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYt
SC- School Certificate
MCE - Malayan Certificate of Education
HSC-Highaer School Cert,ficrite                                                                          1      SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
SJC -Sabah Junior Certificate                                                                          1    2        COLLEGES/CENTERS
SSC - Sabah Senior Certificate
MCVE - Malaysian C.of Vocetional Eduamtion
CG - City & Guilds Certificate
KEY:
ENGLISH
MALAY
L  MALAY    MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION                                                                                U     .
CHINESE   MNPRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
TAM IL                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLLEGES/CENTIERS
R  REMOVE OR TRANSITION CLASS                                               /
C)
PT  PUPIL TEACHING                                                                                                                      'Under Ministry of Agriculture.            r
Tundw the ministry of Netional
EEAST MALAYSIA ONLY                                                                                                                    adRa  eacpet
Wocld Bank-6301(R)






MAL_A Y SIA                                                                          CjART 2
First ~YearScnYer                                       Third Year              Fearth Year                Fifth Yea
No.                   Proiect  ro                          -2      -i     1      2     3      4      5       6    7      8       9    15    15   12        13   14      15    56    17    18    19    20
1   Edocotical D-nLpnoor Getter
Appointment of Consaltants - Design                             x K K
Cons-t-tire Drawi.g.                                                  K K K K K K
Contract Preporatto, Tender & Award5 0 0  0   0
Ces-tr-tiocxxxx            K AXAKXX                                                                             K X K AXA  TX   K
Def-cts, Liahility Period  oensTscrer)                                                                                                KXXX KKKKA X   
Mactot Lists, Fo-it-r  & Eqaipso-t                              0 5 0
T-oder 4 Ceettat Award                                                0 5 
Eqoipoent & PFrirtr  Pr- -teeo                                               A A K K K K K A K I K K
Gracane  Period (Pa...itore & Eqoipnet)                                                    K            TAX      K K  AK   XX  K AK X X X
So   c-ti-na  Scheois
Cco-tr-ctiea Drawiegs (P511)                             5 0 0 0 0 0
Sopelito  - r  (PWDs)                                                        0 5 0 0 000 5 5 5 10  5 0 00 0 
Coct-ct Preparation, Tender & Award (PWD)                             0 5 5
C-nt-ortier                                                                  A A A A K K K S A I K A S A K A A A
DePa-ts, Liability Perird (Construetien)                                                                              AAKAXX XXKAX X XXX
M-st- Lists, PFritoro 4 Eq.ipoest                                      0 0 0 0 0 0
T-der & Conttoct Awar d                                                              0    0
Sqaip-rt & Poroit-r  Pre...r-tnoor                                      XXX  TAS    T  
Toarotro Prrid (Farnitor  4 Eqoipemot)                                                                                KAAXT X AAKTAK  xx 
20       oaiol0Tehia  col
Koao rosas.Trmrlh,Mi-, Silo
SOtt  Seectio- 4 Acqafijtico                      0 0 0 0 0 0 a 0 0 0 5 5
CTam-t-oto  Drainfo  (PWD)                                            0 0 0 0 0 0
Cootr-ct Propa-si-, Toder I Award (PWfD)                                            0 I 
Co-traction                                                                                                      XXXXXATSIT XKAXAX Axx 
Trcs Liability Period (Constrri-s)                                                                                            KX  XAAXX X X XX X 
MorcLists, Po-irs-  & Eqoip-et                                                  0 0 5 0 5 0
Teoder & Cootroci Awad                                                                            50 0
Eqopep t & PFrJ,-r  p---tc,ns                                                                                  IS   KAKAST xX    
C-a-at- P-riod (F-citor. & Eqoipocet)                                                                                                XAKX xxXAKX xKTx
3o     iiostyo   rao    hs 
Master Plan, Schools  f Scienc
Matte  PIa.                                       AT Aj  XX    AK xx
Sits De-rSp-ot                                           XX  XX  X  XX  X  X    X  x
Sosiga Drawiogs                                                 K K K K K S
Coo-t-otia- D-asisga                                                         K T K I K 
Sop-ros-- (ComasS.oots.)                                                                         K K X X X K X   K  A T X   S X  A K X   K A K K Y. X   A AX  K 
Contract Prprto,Toder & Award                                                       T T 0 0 0 5
Koostrartionxxxx                                                                                                       TX X K XX X  Sx X X XX XX X XX X X KAK x
Doie-ts, Liaholity Porimd (Contro-ti-)                                                                                                                        XKXKAK  xX  X  XAX    
Msace  Liots, P-rit-ee   ltq.ip-t                                                          TYOSSOSSDTOT 0           0  
T-nder  T-trsts Award                                                                                                 TOSSeS 0  
Eqoipn...t 4 Pa-it-apr .. Procro t                                                                                                 XX X xX  XAXTX X Kx  
Gloat-o Period (Po...itare 4 Eqnipnent)                                                                                                                        AKTx    XIKKX X X Ax
Library. Aaditorisn, Hostels
Dosig. Drawings                                                                              X  X  KXK
C-or-oc  Prparation. Tonder lA-od                                                                              0  00  00  0
Constractios                                                                                                                 IKAK    X  XXTXAXXXA          XXX XAK XAXAXAX  
Dofocts. Liahility Poriad (Kaaotrs-ti-n)                                                                                                                                    XKxxX  XAX  X TXX X 
lMacte  Lists, Poreitore & Eqeiprent                            2   0                                          5 0 5 5 5 5
To-d-r   Contract Award                                               0 5 5                                                  Ci5 
Guaranoto Period (Farnit-o    4 Sqoip-en)                                                                                                                                   XK  XX  X  XXKX X XXX
AX    Item   financed   der the project
0  -  Iren   net financd radar the proijtt
Noveber, 1971






MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
__j. WS             ;   ~~~~~~~ IrJ5-OS                                                        t1ob                                                    - 
A  A-I Educationol  Development Center -KUALA  LUMPUR                         - _       nterna?iQnaI Bo4darie,                    dc?
i:THAI L   N                                                 B-I University oF PENANG                                                            Stat, Boundaries
P        t S:                                          *  SECONDARY VOCATIONAL  SCHOOLS                                             Th 11 n.nd  Main  *oos<
C-1 Perck - Taipinpmg                                                     T        rie sh' sndo   or  te' sop Pa  rt
angor                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imepty rsd.-wfrtnt -, ac-pftancey the~
n6 or KEQAHoi            a 8 arv                         C-2 Jokore - Kluong                                                       Wcrtdzskendiic nfriite,.
-6(Xd  ' >KEDAHi:  !    |   E                    C-3 Selongor - Klartg   :                       :C Selangor - Ktong                                                  Koto Kindboik                       6
PEP4A 1t                  9     bs                            C-4 PaWang  ^ternerlorl                ,                     [      St                                i\thawritis Pahang  - Temerloh
PERAK                D-1    Treeggooc               CO5SaawkngSb'
KELANTAN                                    C-5 S wak -h i'u
Thipeig        ~~~~TRENGGAI                    C-6 Sara'sqk -Mr
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S
CSaba  - T1w9u
*  SECONDARY  TECHNICAL SCHOOL
D-1 Trenggonntu - Kuoala TeenGganntU
AHA   C    c~~dAoote          *  F-i Educaoiionl Television qanter - KUA LA  LUMPl5iI
RELA  OR  T.s,eejoh      ~~~~WE ST                                                                                  A
K.MPUR            MAL:AYS5I A           e ~             o               O 
ee  ERI                                  g                                                                                                                                    SoO 00  50    A
2                 MOOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
D         0    N   E   S   IA                                AMNN(REO
MARCH   1 9 7 2                                                                                                                                                                                                 RD3717l



