Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4471
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 810-MA)
October 1981
(Revised March 1983)
Educational Financing Division of Unesco, Paris
Education Division, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC     Curriculum Development Centre
EMS     Educational Media Services
EFU     Economic Planning Unit
ETU     Educational Technology Unit
ETV     Educational Television
FMP     Fourth Malaysia Plan (Pa8:-S5)
ICU     Implementation Coordination Unit
KP      Key Person
MESTI   Ministry of Education Staff Training Institute
MOE     Ministry of Education
MDU     Maintenance and Development Unit, Universiti Sains Malaysia
PCR     Project Completion Report
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
SMP     Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75)
SVMI    Malaysia Vocational Certificate Examination
TLAU    Teaching-Learning Advisory Unit
TMP     Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80)
TITC    Technical Teachers Training College
USM     Universiti Sains Mlalaysia (Penang)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CONTBUS
Pages
Preface
Map
Basic Data
Highlights                                                        (v - ix)
Summary
CHAPTER I: PROJECT BACKGROUND                                         1
Social and Economic Setting                                   1
Educational Setting                                           1
Project Generation                                           3
CHAPTE II: LOAN AGREEMENT AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION                     5
Appraisal Mission Proposals                                   5
Loan Agreement                                                5
Project Objective                                             5
Project Content                                               6
CHAPTER III: PROJECT AKvINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT                    9
Project Unit (in MOE)                                         9
Maintenance and Development Unit (in USM)                    10
Project Management and Monitoring: Bank Involvement         15
CHAPTER IV: PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION                                  15
A. Curriculum Development Centre (CDC)                          15
Site                                                         15
Professional Services                                        15
Design                                                       15
Construction                                                 16
Furniture and Equipment                                      16
Educational Media Service                                    16
B. Technical and Vocational Schools
Sites                                                        16
Professional Services                                        17
Design                                                       17
Construction                                                 17
Furniture and Equipment                                      18
C. Universiti Sains Malaysia (uSM)                              19
Site                                                         19
Professional Services                                        19
Design                                                       20
Construction                                                 21
Furniture and Equipment                                      22



CHAPTER VIII: CONCIUSIONS                                             55
A. Project Formulation                                        55
B. Project Implementation                                     56
C. Project Funotioning                                        56
D. Evaluation                                                 57
ANNEXES (See separate list)                                           59
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ATTACHMENT I: Comments from the Universiti Sains Malaysia
ATTACHMENT II: Comments from the Federal Treasury



MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 810-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Education Project, for which Loan 810-MA was approved on April 5, 1972,
in the sum of US$15.5 million. The Closing Date was December 31, 1980,
and the final disbursement was made on March 25, 1981.
The PCR was prepared by a UNESCO team in October 1981 and
was based on (a) a report prepared by a team of Malaysian consultants
employed by the Borrower and (b) materials in the Bank's files includ-
ing the Appraisal Report (PE-42a) dated March 9, 1972, the President's
Report (P-1043) dated March 16, 1972, and the Loan Agreement dated
April 7, 1972.
The PCR was later revised (March 1983) by the East Asia
and Pacific Regional Office, incorporating comments from the Borrower.
These comments are provided in Attachments I and II.






MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
A A- I Educotioncl Development Center - KUALA LUMPUR  - -- Internotional Boundaries    lp?
T1'-AAI. AND                           0 B-l University of PENANG                                Slole Boundairies
r.-        \                            SECONDARY VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS                            Main Roads
i                  e                   C-i  Pe:ol.  -  Trh.p,ng                            bvu,nJut4a  hv  on iiiml   it .u:
_, \ KEObHI  l~~~o Rh.,.             C-2 Johore -Kluong                                rlr ni- .J r/;r                          ,
-( < t 8 _t _b \*<C-3 Selongor Klong
PENA,                                     C-4 Pohong - Temerloh                   Bt
'PERAK KELANTAN  D-  eirneanoo     C-5 Sarowok - Sibu                      II
o,,O         TRENGGA               C-6 Sarawak Miri                        Iul                                 as Q  A b A H
I fill>oh R                     C-7 Sobah - Tou!
* SECONDARf 7ECHNICAL SCHOOL                                                   , ,,  d 
\D-i Trnggonnu Kuoala Trenggonru                               -6
9<  LJP A H A uv  Onlo  * F- I Educational Television Center - KUALA LUMPUR  E A S T
SEL$   {EIAU   h      WESr                                                       MAALAAY
L CMhtUR        A IUL A Y S I A                                                        nt0.S20   0  Bm4ut    ¢-,h".
Seltt~~~~~~~~~~~~ tIEGR              lof lAv                                         obluett        ; Pm|NZ
0 R~~~~~~0             io         e          e
M 1 O  l                                            oanKg~~~~~~   ~      ~      ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ors,bu  /   IAItANIV  Chin  S 
_           blAL~~~~ACLhu>                                                     <      C5                                 E> -S  swea
4T           O Sl pORE                                     \   ~~~    qAhU90h9/    >, OBelee' -, i                  fu 4)
-4           E~     ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~~~~ 
} 4         dimiun o  -°tuL.bok Ante          A t A I S I A
I    i-N  D    O~ N      E   5    1   A        KALIMANTAN (BORNEO)                          *,               Cein_b.
,s-                                 '1°-                                  1         '  , rt o O  N O I S1, A  i
MAAtCt 1tA 2






- iii -
MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 810-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data
Appraisal
Item                         expectation         Actual
Total project cost (US$ million)                 -28.4            27.6
- Underrun                                                         0.8
Loan amount (US$ million)                        15.5             15.5
- Disbursed                                                        15.5
Date physical components completed              6/20/82         12/31/80
Proportion completed by above date (%)            60               100
Proportion of time underrun or overrun (X)                        62.5
Cumulative Estimates & Actual Disbursements
(US$'000)
CY 72    73    74    75     76     77    78     79    80      81
Appraisal
Estimate      77.5 1,674 5,208 9,672 14,880   15.5    -      -      -      -
Actual           -     -      716 2,292  3,300 5,100 10,600 13,400 14,770 15,500
Actual as % of   -     -     13.7  23.7   22.1  30.0
Appraisal Estimate
Other Project Data
Original        Revisions
Item                 plan                               Actual
First mention in files            -               -               6/22/70
Government application            -               -               8/27/71
Negotiations                      -               -              2/22-25/72
Board approval                    -               -               3/28/72
Loan agreement date               -               -               4/5/72
Effectiveness date                -               -               7/7/82
Closing date                  12/31/77        12/31/78           12/31/80
12/31/79
Borrower                                              Government of Malaysia
Executing agency                                      Ministry of Education
Fiscal year of borrower                               January 1-December 31
Follow-on project name                                Third Education Project
Loan number                                         974-MA
Amount (US$ million)                                19.0
Loan agreement date                                 4/5/74



- iv -
MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 810-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Mission Data
Sent        Month/     No. of  No. of              Date of
Mission           by          year     weeks   persons   Man-weeks  report
Reconnaissance      Bank    June 1970       0.3       2        0.6    08/15/70
Identification     UNESCO   Sep/Oct 1970    3.0       2        6.0    02/02/71
Reconnaissance      Bank    April 1971      0.3       2        0.6    04/27/71
Preparation         UNESCO  July 1971       3.0       6       18.0    07/26/71
Appraisal           Bank    Sep/Oct 1971    4.2       6       25.5    10/28/71
Supervision  1     Bank     May 1972        0.5       1        0.5    06/27/72
Supervision  2      Bank    Oct 1972        0.3       1        0.3    11/06/72
Supervision  3      Bank    Nov 1972        0.5       2        1.3    12/14/72
Supervision  4      Bank    May 1973        0.5       1        0.5    05/31/73
Supervision  5      Bank    Mar/Apr 1974    0.4       2        1.1    05/14/74
Supervision  6      Bank    Nov 1974        0.4       1        0.4    12/12/74
Supervision  7     Bank     June 1975       0.5       2        1.3    07/10/75
Supervision  8      Bank    Dec 1975        0.1       2        0.2    12/30/75
Supervision  9      Bank    June 1976       0.1       1        0.1    07/14/76
Supervision 10      Bank    May 1977        0.4       2        1.1    05/24/77
Supervision 11      Bank    Nov 1977        0.4       2        1.1    01/10/78
Supervision 12      Bank    Apr 1978        0.5       1        0.5    06/07/78
Supervision 13      Bank    June 1979       0.5       2        1.3    06/30/79
Supervision 14      Bank    Apr 1980        0.2       2        0.4    05/02/80
Completion         UNESCO   June 1981       2.0       3        6.0       10/81
18.1     43       66.8
Country Exchange Rates
Name of currency (abbreviation):        Malaysia dollar      Exchange rate
(M$) or Ringgit          (M$)
Year:
Appraisal year average                                 US$1.00 = M$ 2.82
Intervening years average                             US$1.00 = M$ 2.36
Completion year                                        US$1.00 = M$ 2.80



MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 810-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
A loan of US$15.5 million equivalent to help implement the Second
Malaysia Plan-s educational strategy was approved in April 1972 and signed
in May 1972. The Plan's strategy called for: (a) strengthening national
unity; (b) meeting manpower requirements; and (c) emphasizing science and
technology. The project was to be completed by December 1977 and to cost
US$28.4 million. The project objectives were to: (a) improve curriculum
development and in-service teacher training; (b) introduce educational
television into Peninsula Malaysia; (c) expand technical and vocational
education; and (d) increase the output and quality of graduate science
teachers and the supply of high-level scientific manpower. These objectives
were to be achieved by the construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) (i) a curriculum development center; (ii) a new studio for education and
television production and supply of TV receivers for schools (equipment
only); (iii) one secondary technical school; (iv) four secondary vocational
schools; and (v) science schools for the University of Sains Malaysia (USM);
(b) one secondary school in Sabah; and (c) two secondary vocational schools
in Sarawak.
The project content changed somewhat in that in 1974 the planned
construction of the computer center for the USM was deleted from the project
(an existing building was used instead). In 1976 the cost of installing an
IBM computer was met from savings from the First Education Project (Loan
599-MA), and in 1977, owing to cost escalation during implementation delays,
the project was reduced in respect of hostel accammodation in two of the
vocational schools and in USM, while the financing of the ETV facilities was
deleted as it was decided to relocate the ETV complex and finance it under
the Fifth Education Project (Loan 1657-MA). As a result, there was, despite
inflation, an underrun of some 3%, compared with the appraisal estimate
(including contingencies) in project costs.
The PCR finds that overall the project was well conceived,
satisfactorily implemented (apart from time overrun), and is contributing
significantly to the development of skilled and technical manpower. The
Curriculum Development Center (CDC) has been fully functional since 1977 and
has a significant capacity for production, research, evaluation and train-
ing. In Peninsula Malaysia, 5,500 TV sets have been distributed to primary
and secondary schools along with 2,500 generators. With the added supply by
the Government of a further 2,100 sets and 1,500 generators, the project has
enabled about 375,000 primary and secondary pupils (or 12-13% of the total) to
benefit from ETV. In addition 33 video-tape recorders have been provided.



- vi -
The ETV programs cover appropriate subjects and levels while the amount of
broadcasting time is near appraisal targets. Full time state education
mass-media officers have been appointed.
The project schools are, on the whole, satisfactory in their func-
tioning, facilities, equipment, staffing and curricula. The vocational
schools have had high examination failure rates and their role needs
clarification. Employers, however, seem to approve of the attitudes to
industrial work and the adaptability of those trained in these schools.
Output from the technical school is of high quality with an examination rate
of the order of 95%.
Project aid to USM's Science Schools has contributed to an output of
science graduates and teachers satisfactory in both quantity and quality.
USM's output of science teachers amounts to about one-third of the national
total. Employers seem satisfied with the adequacy and relevance of their
training. The Computer Center has ample hard and software and 80 science
graduates majored in computer science during 1976-79.
The PCR concludes however that many of the problems encountered
during implementation (with the consequent delays and cost escalation) could
have been avoided by more foresight and attention to detail during the stages
preceding signing of the Loan Agreement.    Implementation problems could also
have been lessened had there been more continuity of staff in supervision,
more prompt dispatch of specialists, more data on educational aspects in
PIU's quarterly reports and fuller consideration, before changes in project
content were made, of the effects of these on the attainment of the
project's objectives.



- vii -
SUMMARY
Loan Agreement
1.     The Loan Agreement for the World Bank's Second Education Project
in Malaysia (Loan No.810-MA) was signed in April 1972. The loan
was for US$15.5 million out of a total estimated project cost of US$28.4
million. The loan became effective on July 7, 1972, the closing date being
December 31, 1977. Since by then disbursement had reached only 22 percent,
the closing date was successively deferred until December 31, 1980
Project Objectives
2.     The project's purpose was to facilitate execution of the Second
Malaysia Plan's educational strategy of strengthening national
unity, meeting manpower requirements and emphasizing science and technology.
The project's objectives were to assist the country to:
(a) improve curriculum development and in-service teacher
training;
(b) introduce educational television into Peninsular Malaysia;
(c) expand technical and vocational education;
(d) increase the output and quality of graduate science teachers
and the supply of high-level scientific manpower.
Project Content
3.     The project consisted of:
(a) construction of an Educational Development Centre, with 120
boarding places, a resource centre-cum-library and an audio-
visual aids unit;
(b) assistance to the development of educational television by:
(i) constructing and equipping a programme production studio;
(ii) providing some 5,500 TV sets for primary and secondary schools;
(iii) supplying 18 video-tape recorders to teacher training colleges
and State audio-visual aids centres;
(c) Assistance to technical and vocational education by:
(i) constructing, furnishing and equipping one technical and
seven industrial and commercial vocational schools;
(ii) providing about 120 places for short courses in navigation and
marine engineering at Sibu vocational schools;
(iii) providing boarding facilities for about two-thirds of the students
in the project schools and staff houses for the principals, some
staff members and caretakers.



- viii -
(d) Assistance to the University Sains Malaysia (Penang) by:
(i)  constructing and equipping Schools of Natural, Applied and
Pharmaceutical Sciences and communal academic facilities -
a computer centre, a library and an auditorium;
(ii) constructing and equipping a residential hall for 500 students,
housing units for the Warden and 15 fellows, and 120 places
for a marine field station;
(iii) providing audio-visual equipment for the School of Educational
Studies;
(iv) financing an architectural master plan.
Project Management
4.     The Ministry of Education's Project Implementation Unit, established for
the First Education Project, assumed responsibilities for the Second. For the
first four years, the Director had insufficient authority and staff, and there
were resultant delays and lack of coordination and control. The University (USM)
in 1972 established a Maintenance and Development Unit (MDU) which assumed
responsibility for the University project items. This unit was well staffed but
administrative and technical constraints contributed to delays in implementation.
Professional Services
5.     The Public Works Department in Kuala Lumpur, in coordination with the
State offices, was responsible for design and site supervision for the Curriculum
Development Centre - as the Educational Development Centre came to be renamed -
and for the technical and vocational schools, and private consultant firms
were responsible for the University items. None of these gave entire satisfaction:
the shortage and high turnover of PWD staff resulted in lengthy delays during the
planning stages, while the performance of the firms involved in the University
ranged from satisfactory to below average. In general, preparation of the
design documents took far too long, while in USM there was a conflict among
consultants.
Design
6.     The basic space standards and accommodation areas specified by the Bank
and included in the worksheets attached to the loan agreement were increased
by the Government and the University. The gross built area in the technical
and vocational schools is about 19 percent, and in the University about 5 per
cent, above the appraisal estimates.
Implementation
7.     The project ran some three years behind schedule and the Government three
times requested postponement of the closing date. Main reasons for delays
were:



- ix -
(a) management difficulties (PIU) and lengthy administrative
procedures;
(b)  slow operation by PWD and private consultants;
(c)  changes in the building programmes;
(d)  inadequate coordination among PIU, PWD, consultants and
contractors;
(e)  shortages of skilled labour and of building materials.
The delays resulted in financial constraints due to cost escalation,
and these were a factor in subsequent reductions in project content.
Changes in Project Content
8.     In 1974, the construction of the USM computer centre was deleted from
the project, an existing building being used instead, and in 1976 the cost of
the IBM computer installed was met from savings from the First Education Project
(599-MA). In 1977, owing to cost escalation during delays, the project was
reduced in respect of hostel accommodation in two of the vocational schools
and in USM, while the financing of the ETV facilities was deleted as it was
decided to relocate the ETV complex and finance it under the Fifth Education
Project.
Project Costs
9.     Mainly as a result of the reductions above, but also because some project
items had not yet been completed, at the final closing date there was, despite
inflation, an under-run of some 3 percent compared with the appraisal estimate
(including contingencies).
10.    Educational Television:    in Peninsular Malaysia 5,500 TV sets have been
distributed to primary and secondary schools, along with 2,500 generators.
With the supply by the Government of a further 2,100 sets and 1,500 generators,
the project has enabled some 375,000 primary and secondary school pupils - or
12-13 percent of the total - to benefit from ETV. In addition 18 video-tape
recorders have been provided. The ETV programmes cover appropriate subjects
and levels, while the amount of broadcasting time is near appraisal targets.
Full-time State education mass-media officers have been appointed.
Technical and vocational education
11.    The project schools are on the whole satisfactory in their functioning,
facilities, equipment, staffing and curricula. The vocational schools have had
high examination failure rates. Employers, however, seem to approve of the
attitudes to industrial work and the adaptability of those trained in these
schools. Output from the technical school is of high quality, with an
examination pass rate of the order of 95 percent.






- 1 -
CHAPTER I
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Social and Economic Setting
1.1     Malaysia has been experiencing a rapid population increase.  From
10.8 million in 1970 the total rose to 14.3 million in 1980, while
the economically active population rose from 3.7 to 5.4 million, the annual
addition to the labour force in 1980 being 169,000. The population growth
rate was put at 2.7 per cent per annum in 1976.
1.2     The South China Sea separates Western, or Peninsular, from Eastern
Malaysia (Sabah and Sarawak), the distance between the coasts ranging
from about 400 to 1,000 miles. Peninsular Malaysia, with some 40 per cent of
the total land area of about 127,600 square miles, had in 1976 C'5 per cent
of the total population. Of this total some 47 per cent were Malays and
34 per cent Chinese, the remainder being 8 per cent non-Malay indigenous
(in Eastern Malaysia where they formed 53 per cent of the total), 9 per
cent Indian and 2 per cent others.
1.13    Malaysiafs per capita income (1977) of US$ 900, and other
comparative indicators, put the country in the intermediate mid-
income group. Occupationally, Malays predominate in small agricultural
holdings and, as do most of those of Indian origin, work on plantations,
while the Chinese are found mostly in manufacturing, mining, construction
and commerce.  Data and estimates for 1975-80 show 93 per cent of the labour
force as employed, 49 per cent being in agriculture, 10 per cent in manufacturing,
13 per cent each in wholesale and retail trade and in public administration,
education and health, and 15 per cent in other occupations.
1.4     The country has had three national development plans: tlhe First
Malaysian Plan (FMP) from 1966 to 1970, the Second (SMP) from 1971
to 1975 and the Third (TMP) from 1976 to 1980. Objectives of the first
plan included increasing agricultural and industrial efficiency, diversifying
production and creating new employment opportunities. In the event, Droduction
and income grew but job creation did not match the labour-force increase, while
at the same time the country faced serious skill shortages. Hence the second
plan was directly geared to solving the problems of surplus of labour, shortage
of skills and inequalities in employment and income, while the fundamental
strategy of the third plan was to provide overall growth l.n incomes and
employment by means of rapid growth in the private sector.
Educational Setting
1.5     Quantitatively, the educational system of Malaysia is one of the
best in Asia. Under the First Malaysia Plan, 1966-1970, impressive
strides were made in primary education, as reflected by imnroved sLurvival
rates and growth in enrolments. By 1970, over 90 per cent of the primary
school age population was enrolled. Opportunities and facilities for



- 2 -
secondary education were greatly expanded, enrolments at this level grew
by 70 per cent, and 68 per cent of students completing pririary education
proceeded to the secondary level. College level and university level
education also expanded during the period. Not only did the University
OF r Malaya more than double its enrolment, but two new universities, the
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and the University of Penang, now known as
Universiti Sains Mlalaysia - USM - were also established. FDesides expansion
of formal education (see Annex I/l)facilities for training outside the formal
system were also increased.
1.6     In spite of these devel6pments, the educational system faced a
number of problems. While the lower school curriculum was broadened
to include practical subjects, other subjects in the curriculum needed revision
and improvement.  At the upper secondary level, almost 95 per cent of the
students followed general education c-urses and only about 5 per cent followed
technical and vocational courses, even though there was increasing unemployment
among school leavers with general education and a shortage of skilled workers.
Higher education reflected the pattern of secondary education, being biased
towards arts and humanities courses. Training facilities at the college
and post-secondary levels were gravely inadequate to meet the countryts
requirements for middle-level manpower. Further, there was a wide disparity
of educational opportunities between urban and rural areas.
1.7     The long-term educational objectives of the Second and Third
Malaysia Plans were selected as leading, among other things, to
the remedying of such defects. These objectives may be surmmarised as being
to:
(a) Strengthen the educational system as a factor in prornoting
national integration and unity, by progressive implantation
of Dahasa Malaysia as the medium of instruction at all levels,
by narrowing the gap in educational opportunities between the
rich and poor and by the eventual integration of the educational
systems of Sabah and Sarawak into the national system.
(b) Orient and expand the education and training system to meet
national manpowor needs, especially in science and tecnnology,
and
(c) Improve and expand the education in order to reduce wastage
and increase its effectiveness in nation-building.
1.8     The period 1971-1980 witnessed major advances in a number of
important fields of education and training. The use of Bahasa
Malaysia as the medium of instruction was progressively implemented.
Efforts made to provide more educational opportunities for the lower
income groups included the improvement and expansion of facilities at
the residential science schools and MARA (Trust Council for Tndigenous
People) Junior Science Colleges to increase the intake of rural students,
the introduction of a textbook loan scheme, and health and nutritional
programmes.



1.9     To improve the quality of education in the schools, the supply
of graduate arts and science teaclhers was increased, in-service
training programmnes for teachers were implemented, and new curricula
introduced into the schools. EstaBlishment of the Curriculum Development
Centre (CDC) and the Educational Media Service (ZEs) lent support to these
activities. The progress made in restructuring the education system towards
science, mathematics and technical courses, and the expansion cf teclnical
and vocational education at the secondary and college levels, as well as
training prograznmes outside the formal system, led to increased supplies
of skilled scientific manpower. Two more new universities were established -
Universiti Pertanian in 1971 and IJniversiti Tel,nologri M4alaysia in 1972 -
and both total enrolment and the proportion of students in science,
mathematics and technological courses increased subtantially.
1.10    During 1971 to 1980, the evolution of the numbers of those in
employment by the occupational categories of professional and
technical workers (17 per cent) and of production workers (22 percent)
shows a rapid rate of growth in demand. Thus the pursuit of an active
policy to promote technical and vocational education at all levels was
fully justified.
1.11    Financial responsibility for education rests primarily with the
Federal Government, which finances the whole capital and recurrent
expenditure of all assisted schools.  Prom 1970 to 1978, recurrent expenditure
on education increased from 19 to 21 per cent of total recurrent expenditure.
Development expenditure on education during the SMP (1971-1°75) was about
9 per cent of total development expenditure, and decreased to 6.7 per cent
of total development expenditure on educatior for the TM4P (1975-1$80).
Project Generation
1.12    The First World Bank Loan (Loan 599-lA) to 1lalaysia for education
was made in 1969 for an amount of US$ 8.8 million. As the result
of a request from the ,T4alaysiaiGovernment for Bank financing, proposals
for a second education project were prepared with the assistance of
Unesco in July 1971 and appraised in September-October 1971 by the Bank.
Before the loan was signed, five missions were involved in generating
the project : (a) Reconnaissance (Bank) June 1970; (b) Project Identification
(Unesco) September/October 1970; (c) Reconnaissance (Bank) April 1971;
(d) Project Preparation (Unesco) July 1,071; and (d) Appraisal (Bank) September/
October 1971.






CHAPTER II
LOAN AGREBENT AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Appraisal Mission Proposals
2.1     The appraisal mission presented its findings in March 1972
in a report entitled:
"Appraisal of Second Education Project in Malaysia, March 9,
1972 (Report No. PE-42 a)"
with a supporting document:
"Malaysia, Appraisal of Education Project - Working Papers,
March 1972".
The projeot agreed on appraisal was similar to that prepared except
that it reduced the number of schools proposed in Peninsular Malaysia
from 7 to 4 and dropped an item of US$ 2.58 million for technical
assistance. It also decreased space areas, by about 20 per cent for
the Curriculum Development Centre and by from 7 per cent to 936 per cent
(according to the School ooncerned) for the University in Penang. The
mission recommended a loan of US$ 15.5 million, to cover the foreign
exchange component of the project (us$ 14.6 million) and the local
currency portion (US$ 0.9 million) of the ex-factory cost of furniture
and equipment likely to be procured locally.
Loan Agreement
2.2     Loan 810-MA, for US$ 15.5 million - the second Bank loan to
Malaysia for education - was signed in April 1972. Amounting
to 54.5 per cent of the total project cost of US$ 28,447,0o0 foreseen,
the loan was to become effective on July 7, 1972, with its closing date
to be December 31, 1977 (ultimately deferred to December 31, 1980).
ProJect ObJective
2.3     The project's overall objective was to facilitate implementation
of selected parts of the educational development strategy contained
in the Second Malaysia Plan. The broad aims of this were to strengthen
national unity, meet manpower requirements and give proper emphasis to
science and technology. The project was designed to assist by:
(a) Improving curriculum development and in-service teacher
training;
(b) Introducing educational television in Peninsular Malaysia;



- 6-
(a) Expanding technical and vocational education;
(b) Increasing the output and the quality of graduate science
teachers and the supply of high level scientific manpower.
Project Content
2.4       The project consisted of:
1. Construction of building and supply of furniture and equipment
for an Educational Development Centre (later called the Curriculum Development
Centre). This would include 120 boarding places for in-service teacher
training purposes, a resource centre-cum-library and an audio-visual aids
unit.
2. Assistance to Educational Television (ETV)
(a) Construction and part of the equipping of a new studio for
programme production;
(b) Provision of about 5,500 TV sets for use in primary and
secondary schools;
(c) Supply of 18 video-tape recorders to teacher training
colleges and the State Audio-Visual Aids Centres.
3. Technical and vocational education:
(a) One technical and seven vocational (industrial and commercial
trades) schools would be built. Furniture and equipment would
be supplied. Four of these latter schools would be in Peninsular
Malaysia (Taiping in Perak, Kluang on Johore, Kland in Selangor
and Temerloh in Pahang) and three in Eastern Malaysia (Sibu and
Miri in Sarawak and Tawau in Sabah).
(b) Provision of about 120 places for short courses in Navigation
and Marine Engineering at Sibu Vocational School;
(c) Provision of boarding facilities for about two-thirds of the
student population in the project schools and staff houses
fo school principals, for some staff members and for the caretakers.
4. Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) Penang:
(a) Construction and equipping of the Schools of Natural Sciences,
Applied Sciences and Pharmaceutical Sciences, and Of communal
academic facilities (a computer centre, a library and an
auditorium, including a lecture theatre complex).
(b) Construction and equipping of a residential hall for 500
students in the main campus, including housing units for the
Warden and 15 research fellows, and 120 places for a marine
field station of the School of Biological Sciences;
(c) Audio-visual equipment for the Centre for Educational Services,
later known as the School of Educational Studies and responsible
for the Eductional Technology Unit (ETU); and
(d) Financing of an architectural master plan.



- 7 -
2.5     The Malaysian negotiating team was a strong one and included
representatives of relevant Ministry of Education divisions,
of USM and of the Treasury. After negotiation Malaysian officials
involved in the projeot, including the US4 Vice-Chancellor and the
Project Implementation Uhit (PIU) Director, made several visits to
Washington, one purpose being to re-negotigte the oonditions for
upgrading the USM computer capacity.
2.6     During negotiation, agreement was reached on the following
main matters:
(a) preparation of a five-year plan of operation for the CDC
(then called EDC);
(b) preparation of a maintenance plan for school TV sets and the
appointment of full time educational mass media officers to
the State Audio-visual Centres (preeentation to the Bank
of a satisfactory maintenance and repair plan for school TV
sets would be a condition of disbursement for this project
item);
(c) inclusion of representatives of the employers on the
boards of the vocational schools;
(d) responsibilities and staffing of the project implementation
unit and of the maintenance and development unit at the
University of Penang,now oalled Univ6rsiti Sains Malaysia.
Retroactive reimbursement was reooomended for the services
of consultant architects for the preparation of the eampus
master plan;
(e) selection and acquisition of sites for all the proJect
schools.






- 9 -
CHAPTER III
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT
3.1       As specified in the Loan Agrreement, responsibility for the
implementation of the project was divided between two different Units:
(a) the Project Unit (renamed Project Implementation Unit - PIU)
of the Ministry of Education, responsible for the implementation
of the Curriculum Development Centre, of the Education Media
Services (EMS) and of one technical and seven vocational
schools; and
(b)  the Maintenance and Development Unit (MDU) at the Universiti
Sains Malaysia responsible for the design of the campus
development plan and for the implementation of the schools
of Sciences, communal buildings and services - 56% of the
total project.
3.2       The responsibilities of each unit, for the financial and administrative
control of the Project and its proper execution, were specified in the Loan
Agreement as follows:
Project Unit (MOE)
(a)  selection, briefing and coordination of consulting architects
and engineers required under the Project, including the
establishment of their terms of reference and administration
of their agreements;
(b)  the design of buildings in accordance with the working papers
and the preparation of construction drawings and contract
documents;
(c)  the preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional
equipment;
(d)  all necessary steps for international competitive bidding for
construction and for furniture and instructional equipment
and the subsequent evaluation of bids;
(e)  the overall supervision of construction and procurement and
installation procedures for furniture and instructional
equipment;
(f)  coordination with ministries and other government agencies
concerned with the Project;
(g)  liaison with the Bank;



- 10 -
(h) the maintenance of records and the furnishing of information
during the carrying out of the Project;
(i) tne preparation of applications for withdrawals from the
Ioan Account;
(J) the preparation of a comprehensive schedule for setting down
the planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsi-
bilities on which the carrying-out of the Project will be
based; and
(k) the evaluation of progress made in implementing the Project
and preparation of progress reports to the Bank.
The Project Unit shall be staffed with: (i) a Project Director,
on a full-time basis; (ii) an architect; and (iii) a procurement officer.
The Bank shall be afforded an adequate opportunity to comment on the
experience and qualifications of any new appointment to the post of
Projeet Director before such appointment is effected. The Project Unit
shall be also provided with all necessary technical and supporting personnel,
inoluding an accountant, to carry out the Project.
Maintenance and Development Uhit
This Unit was responsible for the implementation of the project
items under the oontrol of the Universiti Sains Malaysia, Lncluding inter
alia:
(a) liaison and coordination with the campus planner;
(b) briefing and coordination of architects and engineers
appointed to develop the master plan;
(o) the design of buildings in accordance with the master
plan and the preparation of construction drawings and
contract documents;
(d) the preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional
equipment;
(e) the overall supervision of construction and installation
procedures for furniture and instructional equipment;
(f) liaison with the Bank through the ProJect Unit; and
(g) the maintenance of records and the furnishing of information
during the carrying-out of the Project.
The Maintenance and Development Unit was to include an architect
or engineer and a procurement officer supported by the necessary technical
and related personnel. The Bank was to be afforded an opportunity to comment
on the experience and qualifications of any new appointment to the posts of
architect or engineer and procurement officer prior to such appointment.



- 11 -
3.3     When the project became operational, the Ministry of Education already
had the nucleus of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Unit which
was still carrying out the implementation of the First Education Project.
Seriously understaffed, the unit continued its task with the additional
burden of the Second Education Project. As a result it was unable to
carry out its responsibilities which, added to the numerous problems
that the project was confronted with at this stage, led to further
delays. The PIU Director did not have the authority to coordinate the work
among the various agencies involved, as prescribed in the Loan Agreement.
Coordination was particularly poor with the Division of Development and
Supplies in respect of the preparation of contract documents and of
directing the dispatch and delivery of instructional equipment to the
technical and vocational schools.
3.4     Further, the Unit failed to organize a proper recording and
evaluation system for the many aspects of the implementation progress until
towards the end of project evaluation. For instance, information concerning
implementation for civil works is incomplete. On occasions PIU failed to
prepare quarterly progress reports and those sent to the Bank contained
very limited information on the software side. It was not until the autumn
of 1977 - or five years after the signature of the Loan Agreement - and at
Bank insistence, that a proper supporting staff, including an architect
and a procurement officer, were finally appointed. The Bank also estabished
a frame for quarterly reports which proved most efficient and much easier for
PIU to prepare.
3.5     The Maintenance and Development Unit (MDU), on the other hand, was
established in USM in Penang soon after the signature of the Loan Agreement.
It included a project coordinator (the USM Vice-Chancellor up until 1976,
himself a town planner), a civil engineer, a procurement officer, a bursar
and supporting staff. Unlike the Ministry of Education's PIU, the MDU
soon showed a capacity to assume its responsibilities. This did not,
unfortunately, enable them to avoid many problems of various kinds which
arose during implementation and which should be considered the cause of the
delay of almost three years before the project could be completed. A case
study "Planning, Designing and Constructing (additional) Buildings with
World Bank Loans and Consultant Services," requested by the Secretary
General of the Ministry of Education, identifies and illustrates the nature
of problems and difficulties encountered during the planning and implementation
stages as they have been experienced by the USM authorities. This case study
is reproduced in Annex K of the report by the National PCR team. Below is
a summary of such problems as evaluated by the mission; they apply to both
PIU and MDU.
3.6     The main problems were:
(a)  cumbersome procedures:   any major implementation decisions by USM
required approval by the Economic Planning Unit and the Implementation
Coordination Unit of the Prime Minister's Department and by the
Finance Division of the Ministry of Finance. For all elements of
the project these and the Supplies Section of MOE's Division of
Development and Supplies had be consulted. Bank approval had to
be sought for every step of the Project implementation and permission
had to be obtained from the City Council before commencement of
site works.



- 12 -
(b) insufficient expertise in the preparation of the architect's
brief: during the planning stages the authorities responsible
for the different USM Science Schools were not yet appointed
and a draft programme of the needs had been prepared by USM's
administration department. The numerous revisions concerning
space and basic needs made afterwards by the Deans of the
Science schools, once they were appointed, were both a source
of frustration for the consultants and a cause of further delays,
since they entailed each time modification of the design
documents;
(c) quantity and quality of consultant services (USM): 16 consultant
firms (4 architects, 4 civil engineers, 4 electrical engineers,
4 quantity surveyors) were contracted for the USM project items.
Their performance shows that the amount could have been reduced,
with resultant easier coordination and financial savings (professional
fees for USM were 30 percent above the appraisal estimate);
coordination between the principal consultants and his colleagues
rapidly deteriorated, adding difficulties to MDU in controlling
implementation.   The only demonstration of unity among consultants
took place towards the end of the project when they requested
additional fees on account of supplementary work occasioned by
mistakes or faulty design on the part of some of the consultants,
in respect of such items as: fume cupboards and service islands
in the laboratories, the oxydation pond and sea water reticulation
system in the Marine Science laboratory, and reinforced concrete
gutters in the School of Biological Sciences.
The first two of these entailed reconsideration of the complete
scheme, with consequent delays and cost overruns.
(d) conflict between Government regulations and Bank procedures con-
cerning procurements and payments: despite the agreement reached
during negotiations between the Government and the Bank, it became
evident in the course of implementation that some adjustments
had to be made to procurement procedures in order to comply with
local conditions.
For instance, for furniture the Government had a central
procurement system by which it obtained yearly bids for items
ordered in large quantities (international suppliers were
invited to bid). In 1974, the Government requested that 10
percent of amounts for furniture and equipment should be spent
locally and also proposed that the maximum amount per item
should be M$10,000. After lengthy argument, it was decided
that local purchase would be by package to a maximum amount
of US$50,000. Government regulations concerning payments are
baqed on a very short liability period (3 months) from the date
of order, which favoured small packages, while Bank procedures
are in favour of contracts extending over one or more years.



- 13 -
(e) Supply of materials and labour for site works: the shortage
of building materials was particularly severe in Sabah and
Sarawak, as was the shortage of skilled workers and craftsmen,
who were attracted to the many other important works being
carried out in the country.
(f) Contractors: the main problem with the contractors was the
inability of many of them to exert proper coordination among,
and supervision of, the sub-contractors appointed. This was
a constant source of friction between main contractors and
the project units, as well as a cause of further delays.
Project Management and Monitoring Bank Involvement
3.7       From the starting date of the project (7 July 1972), there were
14 Bank supervision missions: 6 were carried out by a single member (3 by
an architect and 3 by an educator) and 8 by 2 members, mainly an architect
and an educator (see Basic Data). A general educator went only once up
until mid-1976 (i.e., for the first 4 years of the project implementation
period). No technical educator went after 1975 nor did any TV specialist.
The average lapse of time between missions was 6 months. However, the first
4 years were covered by 9 missions whereas the last 3 had only 5 missions.
On three occasions nearly a year elapsed between missions. Progress made
and problems encountered are recorded in the supervision reports.
3.8        Some factors which may be thought detrimental to this Bank involve-
ment in project management and monitoring were:
(a) The high level of turnover among mission members: during project
implementation 5 different architects and 6 different educators
(these latter divided among 3 different specialities, general and
technical education and media services) participated in 11
supervision missions. Hence, with problems being at times
perceived differently by different mission members, the Malaysian
authorities could occasionally question the consistency of Bank
policy regarding the project;
A similar lack of continuity, with consequent weakness of
supervision, has been noted in previous World Bank completion
reports on projects elsewhere. The explanation seems to lie
in the long duration of projects (7-9 years) and in the Bank's
limited estimates of the resources needed for this part of the
project cycle.
(b) Mission sequence and duration: repeated gaps of nearly a year
between supervision missions (particularly in the case of a
project experiencing difficulties) did not enable the Bank to
keep in close touch with the project. Although supervision
mission record forms are not always clear on the duration of
missions, the average seems to have been about 3 days. However,
this is not enough and prevents visits to sites where there
may be awkward problems. The completion mission learned that
some sites were, in fact, never visited.



- 14 -
(c) Supervision mission follow-up: on average, supervision mission
follow-up was efficient and Bank oonfirmation of deoiaions
taken during a mission was quiokly despatched to the projeat
units after the return of the mission to Headquarters.
Occasionally, however, Bank approval took several months
to arrive. From time to time a prompt decision was also
requested by the Bank but this oould not be made without
careful on-the-spot checking. Here lies the problem of
delegation of responsibilities.
Some baok-to-office mission reports drew attention to
specific matters with recommendations for investigation
by the next supervision mission. However, at times there
is no mention of any action taken in the next missionts
back-to-office report.



- 15 -
CHAPTER IV
PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION
Changes in Project Content and Implementation Schedule
4.1     Various changes summarised in Annex IV/1 took place in the project
content, the major ones being described below. Annex IV/2 compares the
implementation schedule foreseen at the time of appraisal with the actual
schedule, the closing date for the project being delayed by some three years.
A. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT CENTRE (CDC)
Site
4.2     A site for the CDC had already been acquired at the time of appraisal
but was not considered satisfactory. A more convenient site was acquired in
Jalan Duta, near the Government compound complex in Kuala Lumpur, in the
northwest of the city and in a rather hilly area. The site is an elongated
rectangle in shape with an average slope of about 8 percent. It is easily
accessible from the adjacent municipal road, as well as from the city's
service networks.
Professional Services
4.3     The design of the buildings and site supervision during construction
were carried out by the Education Section of the Public Works Department in
Kuala Lumpur. The cost of professional services was paid from Government funds
and was not incuded in the project expenditure. Delays were experienced during
the early phase of project implementation owing to the shortage and high
turnover of the PWD staff.
Design
4.4     The design of the Centre is in general satisfactory.     The hostel
in particular is simple and functional, with ample space in trainees'
quarters for storage and study. On the other hand there are some defects,
such as the acoustics of the Conference Hall. This has been re-finished
with sound-proof materials.
4.5     The most serious problem is the shortage of space due to a con-
siderable increase of the CDC staff. All facilities available are over-
crowded. The appraisal mission had cut by about 20 percent the area which,
when the request was prepared, was calculated as necessary.     Space available
when the construction was completed amounted to a 28.5 percent increase over
the appraisal estimates (see Annex IV/3). Still, however, the shortage of
space has made it necessary to find inappropriate solutions such as using
laboratories, corridors and even washrooms for workspace, or reconverting
rooms (e.g., seminar rooms) essential to the programme. Another floor could
be added to the building and development funds are being provided to start
construction in the near future.



- 16 -
Construction
4.6     International competitive bidding procedures were followed for
this project and the winners were local contractors who proved
satisfactory. The buildings are sound, despite sorne cracks and lealkages,
but the quality of the finishes is below standard. The buildings were
ready for occupancy in May 1977, or 2 years behind schedule. Annex IV/4
compares the appraisal estimates of areas with those actually built.
Furniture and Equipment
4.7     Tenders for furniture followed local competitive bidding procedures
and extended beyond the appraisal date, owing to constant changes
in the programme. Furniture quality is'satisfactory. The list of equipment
was prepared by the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Education. The
shortage of staff in the PIU's procurement section considerably slowed up
preparation of the procurement of equipment for this project, and this led
to considerable delays in delivery. Twenty per cent of the equipment had
been delivered by May 1977 when the CDC moved into its new premises.
Educational Media Service
4.8     A consultant firm was appointed and a contract signed for the
design of the TV studios. A complete set of plans at the stage
of sketch design was submitted to EMS at the end of 1974.
It was not until 1977, or 5 years after the signing of the
agreement, that the Government decided to delete the constrilictioo of the
ErV studios from the Project and to propose it as an item in the 5th
Education Project. The main reasons were that the original site Ihad
been taken over by the Prime Minister's Office for other governmient
purposes and that the construction programme - the architect's brief -
had been changed several times, delaying the tending procedure each time.
B. TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS
Sites
4.9     The aim of the technical and vocational schools part of the
project was to extend enrolment to students from rural areas.
Selected sites are located an average fo 5 miles from the urban centres.
There were no problems of access roads or of access to existing electrical
networks. Where no water network was available, a school has its own
well, pumping stac..i . _  e levated water tank. All sites were acquired
shortly before or after signature of the loan agreement. Although they
are generally satisfactory, some problems-are still pending in some of
the schools. In partieular:
(a) In Klang the sports field is subject to rain water flooding
during the rainy season and would need the construction of
an expensive drainage system;
(b) In Kluang, a landslide has recently been repor-ted at Lhe
site of the school owing to the cutting away of a hi-I near
one of the buildings;



- 17 .
(o) In Tawau, the narrowness of the site forced reconsideration
- extending until after site work had already started - of the
distribution of the buildings shown in the site plan, causing
delays during the early stage of construction;
(d) The site in Miri is subject to rain water flooding. The ground
floor of the administration and classroom block has already been
damaged. Water supply is a problem sinoe the capacity of the
municipal elevated tank serving both the school and the oormajnity
around is already inadequate.
Professional services
4.10    The design of the buildings was undertaken by the Public Works
Department in Kuala Lumpur, while site supervision was carried
out by the regional PWD officers in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak.
The shortage and extensive turnover of the staff of the various PWD offices
resulted in serious delays, particularly in the preparation of drawings
and specifications during the planning stage. This is one of the reasons
for the delays affecting Tawau Vocational School in the state of Sabah,
East Malaysia, where the construction phase was still not completed at
the time of the missionts visit in June 1981, six months after the final
revised closing date and four years after the original closing date.
Design
4.11    The design of the schools, including the lay-out and si!;e
distribution of the buildings, is generally satisfactory.
The design is a standard construction module used by PWD for all
secondary level educational facilities, with some variations from
state to state. In Sarawak (Miri and Sibu) the main structure of
the workshops is in steel with hollow block in-fill walling, and
asbestos roof with no insulation underneath and consequent lack of
comfort. The academic blocks in East Malaysia have three stories.
The ceilings of the workshops in the Peninsular schools are too low,
with consequent limits to the use of the facilities. The area of
the metal shop is sub-divided into welding and sheet metal sections.
The welding section is too small and the instructors complain about
the difficulty of moving oxygen and acetylene containers to the
welding booths. The three storey academic blocks in Sabah and
Sarawak are not sufficiently protected from rain and large dark
spots from fungus on the cement finishes have already appeared in
different places. Corridors connecting the academic blocks should
have expansion joints.  The total actual built area is about 19 per
cent above the appraisal estimate (see Annex IVA).
Construction
4.12    In view of the limited amount of work which was c.ntenplated
at each site it was decided, with Bank concurrence, that local
competitive bidding procedures would be followed after pre-selection
of contractors. When submitting their bids, the main contractors
presented a list of nominated sub-contractors for approval. The
quality of the construction is generally satisfactory, as is the
performance of the contractors. The building progranne for the
student hostels for the vocational schools in Sibu and Miri in trhe
state of Sarawak was reduced. At the closing date civil works for
Tawau Vocational School -electrical installations in the workshops



- 18 -
and drainage - had not been completed. Annex IV/4 compares the areas
estimated at appraisal with those actually built.
4.13    Compared with the appraisal estimate, actual implementation
(see Annex IV/2) averaged two years behind the original scheme.
The main reasons for the delays, besides the fact that appraisal
estimates for the preparation of contract documents were unrealistic,
may be summarized as being:
(a) the shortage and turnover already mentioned of PWD staff
during the design phase;
(b) long and cumbersome procedures for design and approval of
contracts on the part of the services concerned;
(o) poor coordination between PIU and the PWD offices in East
Malaysia;
(d) lengthy procedures for site investigation and soil tests
before deciding on the type of footing in certain schools
(Klang, Taiping, Tawau);
(e) over-oommitment on different projects by building contractors;
(f) transportation problems with building materials (Tawau)
and shortage of such materials;
(g) installation of the 3-phase electricity network in Tawau
school was not included in the main contract as it was
with other schools and is at present under negotiation.
Furniture and Equipment
4.14    The standard design of furniture is not satisfactory, and the
workmanship and quality of material is below standard in most
cases. The percentage of damaged furniture is already increasing.
Teachers were not involved in the preparation of master lists of
equipment, this being done by the Division of Technical and Vocational
Education in Kuala Lumpur for the Peninsula area and by the development
sections in Sabah and Sarawak.
4 15    Experience of the implementation of Loan 599-MA (First Education
Projeot) indicated that outside bidders could not successfully
challenge local enterprises. The Government therefore suggested, and
the Bank agreed, that invitations for tenders would be advertised locally
with copies of advertisements to Embassies and High Commission, and that
if no interest was expressed by foreign firms the Government would reduce
the tender period for furniture to 4 weeks. International competitive
bidding procedures were followed for the purchase of equipment. Each
school principal received a complete list of equipment that was supposed
to be shipped to the school.



- 19 -
4.16      Several problems occurred during procurement and delivery.     Equip-
ment procurement has been generally slow, particularly in East Malaysia.
This was due mainly to the shortage of staff in PIU and the Division of
Development and Supplies, and these units could not monitor the process
adequately. Other problems concerned the installation of equipment: in
some cases the supplier sent no instructions for installation and use,
or else sent instructions in foreign languages.     In most of the schools
the point welding machines were not connected to the 3-phase network
and none are at present operational.    By closing date only 80 percent
of the equipment for Tawau Vocational School and 85 percent of that for
Sibu Vocational School had been procured.
C.   UNIVERSITI SAINS MALAYSIA (USM)
Site
4.17     The site is located in the south east of Penang Island, on government
land which had previously been used for an army cantonment. The university
still uses a number of old buildings. Acquired by the Ministry of Education
in 1972, the site has a total area of more than 210 acres. The Ministry has
acquired also an adjacent 87 acres of land and is in the process of acquiring
more to cover the needs of the future development of the university. The
topography, owing to a succession of small hills and depressions, varying from
25 to 75 feet above sea level, created some drainage problems during the prepara-
tion of the Master Plan. Nevertheless, access to public roads and city net-
works was easy, but since construction of a highway is at present underway near
to the site, linking the airport with the centre of the city, reconsideration
of the road network within the campus will be needed to connect it directly with
the highway.
4.18     The site of the USM Marine Field Station is located at Muka Head, the
extreme north west cape of the island, between the sea and the Pantai Ached
Forest Reserve, with the possiblility of a natural terrestrial and marine
ecosystem. The main problem with this site is that access must be by sea,
since there is no other possibility for the moment. This necessitated the
construction of a pier, which was covered by the project funds. The lack of
expertise on the part of certain consultants concerning sanitation and water
supply led to reconsideration and considerable delays in the completion of
the Marine Station.
Professional Services
4.19     Master Site Plan: The design of an architectural Master Plan was
included in the project. A firm of planners selected by the University
and accepted by the Bank was officially appointed by the Prime Minister's
Office in February 1972.



- 20 -
The Master Plan had to be prepared before the appointment of the deans and
senior lecturers of various schools. This resulted in the numerous amendments
before finalization and the 2-1/2 year delay before submission of the Master
Plan for the Bank's approval. In 1974, in view of USM's urgent need for a
large computer, it was decided to delete the construction of the computer
centre in the central facilities building and to utilize instead an existing
building which would be rehabilitated for the purpose. Also areas of the
USM residential hall were reduced.
4.20 Buildings: In July 1972, the University Board of Management recommended
to the economic planning unit in the Prime Minister's Office a consortium
of four architectural firms to be appointed as consultants for the design and
supervision of the work, which was divided as follows:
(a) Library, Auditorium and Lecture Theatres;
(b) School of Chemistry and Biological Sciences; and School of
Physics and Mathematics;
(c) School of Pharmacy and Applied Sciences;
(d) Students Hostel.
The four firms would be coordinated by the Vice Chancellor. Other firms were
appointed as consultants in the fields of engineering (4), electrical engineering
(4) and quantity surveying (4). The planners appointed as principal consultants
were supposed to exercise some control and coordination over the others.
4.21      The designation of the consultants, and preparation and approval of their
contracts, was a first cause of difficulties and delays. Cumbersome procedures
were one of the main causes - candidatures had to be submitted to the USM Board
of Management, to the Prime Minister's Office's economic planning and
implementation and coordination units, as well as to the World Bank. The
quality of the services rendered by the architectural firms, as appraised
by the University authorities, ranged from satisfactory to below average. Of
the other consultants, some performed very adequately while others were
unsatisfactory, their lack of expertise bringing about in some cases numerous
problems which still remain unsolved. Another difficulty was the relationship
between the principal consultant and the other consultant specialists: this
was never good and the situation deteriorated to the point of constant disputes
between them.
Design
4.22     The design stage was also a source of difficulties and delays.
The lst cf needs and requirements for the different schools was not in
its f.nal stage at the time of the designation of consultants. The
university authorities did not yet have the expertise available to advise
on the educational requirements needed by the consultants as part of an
;chi      '^  -ief before work was started on design.    This was a major
reason for sevec:al ameL,'..Ients and revisions of the sketch plans (and later
on of wurking Arawings) before they cuuld be approved by the decision-
making authorities (the Economic Planning Unit, City Council and sank) and
caused4 P'l -v.ral' del- -   au_- one ndll  a half years in preparing L-.e final
Mascer Plan. Construction work did not start before June 1975, or 2-1/2
years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 21 -
4.2_3   This problem of initial delays during the design stage had serious
consequences on the quality of the project. Most of the revisions
requested - principally by the World Bank representatives and the Government
Standards and Costs Committee - were dictated by the imperative need to
reduce costs because of cost trends in Malaysla. But no one at: that time
seemed to have realised that any cost saving would be nullified by delays,
and that the so-called savings have been obtained by lowering quality.
4.24    In general, the design of the buildings is satisfactory.  This is
especially true of the Assembly Hall and the Library. The main
weaknesses concern details: in particular the built-in furniture such as
the fume cupboards and the service islands in the laboratories. The fume
cupboards have to be entirely re-designed. The service islands as they
are at present installed could be dangerous for the students. Other
defects were identified and corrected (as gas storage in the Chremical
Science School). The apace standards applied for the design are not
those suggested by the Baxk but rather those prepared by tne Government
Standards and Costs Conrmittee, revised by the USM authorities as appropriate.
The gross built area is about 15 per cent over the appraisal estimate
(see Annex IV/5).
Construction
4.25    Annex IV/6 compares the areas estimated at appraszal with those
actually built. After the planning .tage the construet'on phasc
experienced further difficulties and its completion took about three
years more than anticipated by the appraisal.
The main causes of delays were:
(a) lengthy procedures for awarding contracts;
(b) lack of proper coordination and cooperation between
consultants and contractors;
(c) shortage of construction workers;
(d) shortage of building materials;
(e) some main contractors sub-contracted the work to inexperienced
contractors and failed to supervise their performance.
4.26    Internatioral competitive bidding procedures were followed and
the tendering period was extended by 60 days. No foreign firms of
building contractors applied.  The contractor for the Library and the
Plain Hall basically sub-contracted the wiork. Site supervision was
inadequate and the sub-contractors used low quality building materials.
Other contractors gave satisfaction, with the exception of the firm
chosen for the School of Chemistry and Biology. The quality of the
finishes is below standard. The sub-contractor nominated for t'^e lifts
for the School of Sciences Auditorium and Library failed to honour hnis
contract. The flinister of Education and the University decided on the
exclusion of this work from the main contract and to invite tenders.
This led to further delays even after the completion of the bui'ding_.



- 22 -
Furniture and Equipment
4.27    Local competitive bidding procedures were followed for the
procurement of furniture while ICB procedures were followed
for the procurement of equipment for the project. At closing date
some equipment for the Schools of Pharmaceutical Science and of
Chemistry had still to be procured.
All furniture has now been delivered and is of acceptable
quality. EPU requested the reduction of the tender period for
equipment from 60 to 45 days and the Bank agreed. All the equiprent
tendered for has been delivered.



- 23-
CHAPTER V
COMPLIANCE WTTH LOAN COYENANTS
5.1     Overleaf is set out the status of implementation of the loan
agreement covenants, most of which were due for compliance by
January 1973. It was four years before the fundamental one concerning
proper staffing of the Project Unit was implemented. One selected site
(Miri) was not appropriate. The plans to be sent to the Bank concerning
maintenance and repair of project television receivers and for the
operation of CDC (inoluding technical assistance requirements and sources
of supply) reached the Bank on time. The covenant requiring the nomination
by 1973 of an appropriate educational mass-media officer to each State
was in the main fulfilled, although four States had to wait from 4 to 8
years more than contemplated. As in other countries where the Bank
had a similar requirement, the endeavour to link the technical/vocational
schooling system closely with industry did not succeed: school boards
with representatives of local employers do not exist. However, there
are industrial members on MOE syllabus committees.
5.2     While the majority of the obligations concerning educational
aspects were carried out - though mostly with some delay - the
situation has been less satisfactory as regards implementation of the
obligations relating to PIU staffing and to site suitability.



SECOND EDUCATION PROJC   : LnAN 8l0-MA
STATUS OF COVE2WUNS
Ref. No. in
Date Due                       Covenant                     Loan                                 S t a t u s
Agreement
Tbroughout        The Borrower shall carry out the              3.01        It took four years before the Project Unit oould get
Implementation    Project through a Project Unit                            the necessary technieal and supporting personnel
and shall provide all necessary                           to oarry out the project's lmplementation.
technical and supporting personnel
to carry out the project.
A Maintenanoe and Development Unit          Schedule      Fulfilled: aooperation with the Project Unit has been
acting in cooperation with the                 6          adequate.
Project Unit shall be responsible
for the overall supervision of the
implementation of Penang University.                                                                                l
April 1972        The Borrower shall send to the 2ank           4.08        Fulfilled: a satisfactory plan was submitted.
a plan regarding the maintenance                          A local system of effecting repairs has been
and repair of projeot television                          established. Purthermsore, Government provides
receivers.                                                replacement units which, in 1981, have been
budgeted to amofnt to 240 TV sets and 136 petrel
generators, or about 3 per cent of the quantity
of such equipment in the field.
In some cases, however, maintenance provision could
be improved.
October 1To?      The Borrower shall: (i) select suitable       3.06        Fulfilled: although the site at Miri was found
sites for the schools at I'ala,                           later to be subject to water flooding.
Trengganu, Temerloh, Miri and S!' u;
and (ii) inform the Bank o. the sites
selected.                  ,-nt- d



STATUS OF CCVENANWS
Ref. No. in
Date Due                        Covenant                     Loan                               S t a t u a
Agreement
October 1972      The Borrower shall send to the Bank,           4.03        A five-year plan of operation for the CDC, setting out
for its comments, the five-year plan                       its tasks, the development of its staff and technical
for the operation of the Educational                       assistance requirements, together with sources of
Development Centre included in the                         supply, was sent to the Bank. The five-year plan of
Project, including staff development                       operation is contained in a report entitled:   The
proposals and details of technical                         Education Development Centre Projeot.Ministry of
assistance requirements and sources                        Education, in collaboration with the Iternational
of supply.                                                 Bank for Reconstruction and Development and United
Nations Development Programme: Plan of Operation
1972-1976.
January 1973      The Borrower shall appoint a qualified         4.04        Nine E.M. officers were appointed in 1973: one more
and full-time educational mass-media                       in 1977. By 1981, each state had an E.M. officer
officer to each State Audio-Visual Aids                    (total number 13).
Centre.                                                    Their responsibility is, among other things, to
promote the effective use of educational T.V. by
teachers and schools, to supervise the system of
repairs and maintenance and to liaise with schools
and the Central EMS Unit.
Undated           The Borrower shall, with respect to            4.05        The extent of organic integration of the Technical
the Project, include or cause to be                        and Vocational School system with Indnstry has been
included in the menbership of a board                      rather limited.
established to exercise functions l
specified in the Borrowersets Education                    There are no Joint BoardzsA/ at tne School level for
Asc f      in  reEation                                    local industry to involve iteif with the training
Act of 1961 in relation to any                             syste  thtmybreuedna                ti   lrae.
vocational school, representatives                         The whole administratoq    n and  i - pmrticular aream
of enployers in the locality of such                       is rather centralized and all important decisions
schools,                                                   are taken at the Departtmentts Headquarters level
where a liaison system with industry has been
established, dealing mainly with the design of the
curricula and syllabi. There are industry members
on MOE Syllabus Committees.
1/ School Boards are no longer required for Govermment and Government-aided schools.






- 27 -
CHAPTER VI
PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimates
6.1     At appraisal, the estimated total project cost was US$ 28.45 million
and the foreign exchange component US$ 14.56 million or 51.1 per cent
of the total cost. Tables below indicate:
Table 1: Estimated project cost by project component,
Table 2: Estimated project cost by category of expenditure,
Table 3: Loan allocation by category of expenditure,
Table 4: Appraisal estimates and actual costs.
Table 1
Estimated Project Cost by Project Component - Appraisal Estimates
Malaysian $              US$ (millions)
(millions)                                 of
Project Component        Local Foreign Total     Local   Foreign Total Total
1. Curriculum Development   1.44    0.95    2.39    0.51     0.34   0.85    33.0
Centre (CDC)
2. Educational Television   0.95     3.99   4.94    0.34     1.41   1.75    6.2
(EKS)
3. One Technical and       10.84    10.18  21.02     8.84    3.61   7.45   26.2
7 Vocational Schools
4. Science Schools of      18.23    17.74  35.97    6.46     6.30  12.76   44.8
the University of
Penang
5. Contingencies:
Physical              3.01     3.25   6.26    1.07     1.15   2.22    7.8
Cost escalation       4.72     4.93    9.65   1.67     1.75   3.42   12.0
Total                39.19    41.04   80.23   13.89    14.56  28.45 100.0



- 28 -
Table 2
Project Cost by CategorY of Expenditure - Appraisal Estimates
Malaysian $            US$ (millions)
C a t e g o r y            (millions)                                 of
Local   Foreign Total   Local   Foreign Total Total
1. Construction
Academic & Communal     15.51   6.65    22.16   5.50     2.36   7.86   27.6
Boarding                 4.92   2.11     -7.03  1.75     0.75   2.50    8.8
Staff Housing            0.70   0.30     1.00   0.25     0.11   0.36    1.3
Site Development         3.32   1.43     4.75   1.18     0.50   1.68    5.9
Professional Services    2.02   o.86     2.88   0.71     0.31   1.02    3.6
1~~~~                                  I
Sub-Total               26.47  11.35    37.82   9.39     4.03  13.42   47.2
2. Furniture                 2.67   o.67     3.34   0.94     0.24   1.18    4.1
3. Equipment                 2.32 20.84     23.16   0.82     7.39   8.21   28.9
4. Contingencies
Physical                 3.01   3.25     6.26   1.07     1.15   2.22    7.8
Cost Escalation          4.72   4.93     9.65   1.67     1.75   3.42   12.0
Total                   39.19 41.04      80.23  13.89   14.56   28.45 100.0
Table 3
Allocation, of Loan x Appraisal Estimates (in US$ Million)
Total
C a t e g o r y       CDC          EMS        TVs         USM     Loan Papraisal
Alloc.  Estim.
Civil Works           0.603        0.245      4.691      7.870   4.020  13.409
Furniture             0.090        0.021      o.408      0.666 )         1.185
Equipment             0.153        1.486      2.357      4.218 t 8.460   8.214
Sub-Total             0.846        1.752      7.456     12.754  12.480  22.808
Contingencies         0.206      0o.436       1.842      3.155   3.020   5.639
Project Total         1.052        2.188      9.298     15.909   15.500  28.447



Table 4
Appraisal estimates and actual costs
(in uS$ million)
Project Costs        Costs as % of     Costs (30 June 1981)  Final Costs as
C a t e g o r y             Appralsal        (30 June 1981)          appraisal         if -rroJect fuily    % of appraisal
Estimates          as reduced           estimates             completed            estimates
1                   2                   3                       __5
Construction & Site Developinent,
professional fees:
without contig encies               13,409
contingenoies                        3,352
Total Civil Works                   16,761               18,291               109               19,380                 116
Furniture & Equipment:
without continmeoies                 9,399
contingeniese                        2,287
Total Furniture & Equipmont               1        1,6    9,299                s0               11,26D                 100
Total Project coats
excluding contingenotes             22,808                                   121                60o                    13
inaluding contingoieu               28,447              27,590                97               30,                     134



- 30 -
Actual Costs
6.2       As shown in Table 4 above and in Annex VI/i, the actual project
cost at the time of the revised closing date (31 December 1980) was
US$26.6 million, as against US$28.5 million forecast with contingencies,
or about 3.4 percent under the appraisal estimate. In reality, as shown
in column 4 of Table 4, the real cost of the completed project will amount
to about 34 percent above the original appraisal estimate without contingencies,
the difference being paid by the Government.
6.3       The reasons for the slight under-run at the closing date were changes
made in the project's content during implementation and items not completed
by closing date. Main elements in the under-run were:
(a)  the decision in 1974 to delete the construction of the Computer
Centre in USM's central facilities building and to rehabilitate
instead an existing building for use as the Centre, and to the
debiting in 1976 of the US$700,000 cost of the computer to
savings from the First Education Project;
(b)  the decision in 1977 to delete construction of CDC's ETV studios
from the project and to propose it as an item in the Fifth
Education Project, with the resultant expenditure of only
US$27,000 out of the US$106,000 allocated at appraisal.
(c)  some equipment for USM's Schools of Pharmaceutical Science and
of Chemistry, and for the vocational schools at Tawau and Siba
had yet to be procured.
Construction Costs
6.4       The actual construction costs, including additional works which took
place during the construction phase, amounted to 60 percent of the total
cost of the project but, owing to the above-mentioned changes, exceeded the
appraisal estimate by only 8 percent. All major price increases have been
in the category of labour and building materials costs, which have a low
foreign exchange content.
Professional Fees
6.5        Professional fees were minimal, since most of the design was carried
out by Government PWD Services. The fees consisted mainly of consultants'
fees for the design of the ETV studio, and for the design and site supervision
of the USM Science Schools and Conference Halls, the breakdown being:
US$ ('OOs)
ETV Studio                              27
Develoment Master Plan, USM             63
Science Schools, USM,
Conference Halls, etc.              4,162
Total                   4,252
This amount equals 5.4 percent of the overall cost.



- 31 -
Furniture and Equipment
6.6     Furniture and equipment accounted for 33 per cent of the overall
cost, compared with the 41 per cent estimated at appraisal, including
contingencies. Total expenditure for furniture and equipment was US$ 9.3
million or 22 per cent under appraisal estimates, owing to modification of
the progranme as mentioned earlier and to savings coming from furniture and
equipment still to be procured at the time of the final closing date.
Cost per square foot and per student place
6.7     A comparative analysis of planned and built areas and of consequent
costs per square foot and per student place is given in Annex VI/2.
Actual costs compare well with estimated unit capital costs in institutions
in other Bank-group financed education projects in the region. The actual
cost per student place in the vocational schools is about US$ 2,000 compared
to the US$ 1,892 average estimate for similar institutions built in the region
during 1977. The cost per student place in the USM Science School (at full
capacity) is US$ 2,710 in chemical and US$ 4,135 in biological science
compared to the US$ 7,170 median figure in University buildings built in
the region during 1977.
Implementation Schedule and disbursements
6.8     Annex VI/3 presents a comparative analysis of the implementation and
disbursement schedule between appraisal estimates and actual implementation.
At the time of the original closing date (31 December 1977) only 26 per cent of
the loan allocation had been disbursed. By a cable dated April 7, 1981, the
Bank confirmed that the loan amount had been fully disbursed. At that time
payments to various contractors and suppliers were far from being finalised:
for instance, during the missionts visit to Tawau, the PWD local office still
owed the building contractors more than M$ 360,000 retained for defects and
retention fund: (Us$ 127,600).
Recurrent Costs
6.9     The mission was able to obtain information concerning recurrent costs
for the vocational schools and the technical school included in the
project, which have been operational for more than two years. Figures shown
in Annex VI/4 vary from M$ 940 up to M$ 1,140 while the average cost per
student place at the country level is MS$ 1,200. It is too early to obtain
reliable information for the USM Science Schools.






- 33 -
CHAPFTER VII
PROJECT OPERATIONAL OUTCOMES
Overall Outcome
7.1     The project has on the whole achieved its objectives of assisting
the Government of Malaysia in the four areas below:
(a) Curriculum development: this is now a continuous process,
concentrated mainly within one responsible institution with
trained staff and specialized facilities.
(b) Educational television: this has made a good start in Peninsular
Malaysia. The project provided receiving sets for a large part
of the primary and secondary schools, stimulated the production
of relevant materials and contributed to establishing at the
receiving end a maintenance system and an administrative and
professional structure at state level.
(c) The technical and vocational schools continued the efforts
assisted by the First Education Project to expand these types
of education and training and, consequently, contributed to the
production of technical manpower and craftmen.
(d) The investment made in the USM consolidated this young but
innovative University and is undoubtedly assisting the
Government to reach its targets with an increased output
of graduates in sciences, including the applied sciences,
and in Science with Education (the much needed science and
mathematics teachers).
A. CURRICULUM DEVEIOPMETh    CENITE (CDC)
Objectives
7.2     As an important step to improve the quality of education, a major
objective of the second Malaysian Plan, the CDC was set up in 1973
and acquired the status of a Division of the Ministry of Education in 1974
(see Annexes VII/1 and VII/2). Its major responsibility is in curriculum
development and research, and in the associated re-training of teachers.
Its major objectives are to:
(a) Identify and translate national needs and aspirations into
curriculum specifications.
(b) Plan and develop curriculum programmes for continuous, systematic
and qualitative development.
(c) Develop and produce curriculum materials such as syllabi,
teacher guidelines, learning materials, evaluation instruments,
audio-visual aids, and prototype teaching and learning equipment.



(d) Disseminate information on curriculum innovations and practices
to teachers in schools and to others in the community.
(e) Organize in-service teacher education courses to ensure the
proper implementation of curricular innovations, changes and
revisions.
(f) Conduct surveys and analyses of significant world-wide trends
and developments in curriculum specifications and teaching
practices.
Its major activities involve development, research, evaluation, testing,
training and, to some extent, extension services. CDC is assuming the
responsibility of acting as the Central Curriculum Committee's Secretariat.
7.3     At the project generation stage, it was foreseen that the Centre
would extend its activities to cover, eventually, all fields of
study below the university level and to play a major role in the improvement
of teacher education. At the project preparation stage, il was suggested
that, when dealing with research into areas of curriculum needs and of the
teaching/learning process in schools, the Centre could perhaps concern itself
also with the non-formal learning context.
Equipment and Use of Facilities
7.14    On the whole, it appears that the equipment received within the
project is adequate in quantity (there is in fact an excess of
printing and collating machines) and in quality: and forms the main part
of the equipment now available in CDC (some equipment did exist before
the new construction, partly funded by Unesco/oNDP ./). With the limitations
imposed by conversion of space initially allotted for domestic and experimental
sciences, the use of equipment appears, on the whole, adequate. The situation
is expected to be redressed in the future, as the Fourth Malaysian Plan
foresees an extension of the CDC premises.
Research and Development Activities
7.5     CDC's research and development activities are very varied.    It produces
teaching guides in various subjects and prepares syllabi, graded reading
materials, cassettes and resource kits. It performs formative evaluation of
written materials, evaluation of textbooks, production of charts, construction
of diagnostic tests, pilot-testing, comparison of teaching methods, etc.
Moreover, the CDCts responsibilities cover the design, development and testing
of prototype equipment and furniture; all these activities are under-way or
are at the planning stage, e.g. evaluation of a specific in-service course
and determining more effective methods of teaching. The fields covered are
science, mathematics, languages, social sciences, and population education
(Cn the form of integrated projects), including several special projects
such as compensation education ?/, the Pahang Tenggara Project /, and the
multi-media self-instruction teacher education project.
/ Unesco/JNDP input for equipment and books, including curriculur packages
for the Resource Centre, was respectively US$ 95,000 and US$ 25,000 for
the interim period between commencement of operation as a curriculum unit
and full implementation in new premises,
v With the goal of remedying learning problems especially in rural primary schools.
/ Southeast Pahang region in West Malaysia with a large new land development
project included in the SIP (197l-1975): MOE is in charge of formulating
an appropriate curriculum for the school population in that region.



- 35 -
7.6     The list of CDC projects/programmes for the period 1973-79 is
impressive. About half (34) of the 70 projects involve the
reformulation or revision of subject syllabi. In 1979 about 40 per cent
of the projects were at the initial stages, partially under way or on-going
and the remaining 60 per cent were in the final stages or practically
completed. For projects involving formulation or revision of subject syllabi
a fair balance exists among the primary, lower secondary and secondary levels,
languages and sciences having received the greatest emphasis. As regards
the production of teaching-learning materials and publications, very large
amounts are now available. Thus, the quantitative achievements of CDC
have been impressive in research and development and are undoubtedly of
great significance during 1970-1980 in which the Government set some key
objectives and educational innovations were started within the framework
of the various development plans. The increased emphasis placed by CDC on
evaluation may fill in some past gaps and allow for a subsequent overall
impact evaluation of the various curriculum projects and of the quality
of the new syllabi produced.
Staff Development and Structure
7.7     Although staff development and technical assistance requirements
(with sources of supply) were considered at the appraisal stage
as being important and are included among the covenants of the loan Agreement,
quantitative anticipation was low, estimates being for a professional staff
of only 73 (including about 30 seconded from schools). The request document
presented earlier to the World Bank called for a staff of 100 professionals,
60 of whom would be permanent, 40 being teachers seconded on their own salaries.
In fact, by 1974 the appraisal permanent staff strength target was already
reached by CDC and nearly trebled by 1979, with 122 total national professionals
and sub-professional staff in permanent positions. By 1981, this staff has
risen to 151 persons / (of whom 92 are university degree holders, one
possessing a technical diploma), and consequently feels squeezed into
limited space allocations.
7.8     Staff on secondment are present only for ad hoc work and for short
periods of time. To some extent staff shortages exist for sciences
and mathematics and for evaluation work as well as at the technical diploma
level, while some turnover in the graphic arts is noticeable. Foreign
consultants were reduced to 4 by 1979, but staffing of the hardware component
of the World Bank project has been supplemented since the first phase (1972-1976)
of CDC's operation by considerable expert services(of excellent quality it appears)
provided by several bilateral and multilateral sources (including the UNDP/
Unesco team for Phases I and II, covering the period 1972-1979) g .
l/ The appraisal report cut out about 20 per cent of the space allocations
proposed in the project prepared.
2/ Between 1973 and 1976 an estimated 30 man-years of expert services
were received; among the specialists funded by Unesco/4tDP three-
quarters were from the USA.



- 36 -
7.9     CDCts staff development programme has been very generous, amounting
to the large total of about 105 man-years of fellowships abroad.
The wastage rate has been high: 32 out of 72 officers trained abroad for
various levels of specialization have so far left. The training schemes
were of different types (post-graduate level and short-term fellowships)
and for those funded by Unesco/LNDP - i.e. the great majority - included
very few regional fellowships, about 90 per cent being in the USA. A large
variety of relevant areas were covered such as curriculum development,
testing and measurement, ourriculum evaluation, educational technology,
prototype/AVA production and overall curriculum development planning.
uarthermore, internal staff training by foreign specialists was occasionally
organized.
7.10    Discontinuity of management and senior staff (principal assistant
directors and assistant directors) has not been dramatic as about
half are still in charge since the early days of CDC, and the Director is
still the same (see Annex VII/2 showing organizational chart of the Centre g/).
It might be suggested that leadership be strengthened and that a serious
review of staff promotion policy within CDC be undertaken in order to retain
more permanently its better professional elements. Furthermore, in order to
allow CDC to develop its full potential and increase its capabilities it
would be desirable to study the structural, staffing and coordination
implications of (i) its evolving functions and the additional subject fields
and levels it has to tackle (such as pre-school education and upper
secondary, technical/vocational and teacher training curricula) and (ii) of the
full implementation of new strategies and orientations such as those embodied
in TMP and FMP.
In-Service Teacher Training and Key Persons
7.11    In-servioe teacher training activities were always given considerable
importance in Malaysia /, in particular upgrading the knowledge and
teaching methodology of teachers in various subjects such as science, mathematics,
Bahasa Malaysia and English. Except for vocational and technical teachers,
CDC is specifical2y responsible for training in-service teachers in order
to bring CDC curriculum innovations to the classroom. It has so far performed
this flunction for 52,917 primar-y and 33,354 secondary teachers, a total of
86,271 teachers ~/, in Peninsular Malaysia, an estimated 80 per cent of
the teacher population.
/ Not shown in the Annex is the high level policy and decision-making body
(of which CDC is the Secretariat), namely the Central Curriculim' Committee,
chaired by the Director-General of the Ministry of Education.
/ The overall responsibility for in-service teacher training within the
Ministry of Education lies with the Div'sion of Teacher Training.
/ Excluding UGAMA (religious) teachers.



- 37 -
7.12    The way CDC reaches such large numbers is to train   key persons (KPs)
for the various eurriculum projects, at the Centre's premises. To
obtain a multiplier effect these KPs organize and conduct in-service training
courses for teachers at the State level. Annex VII/)5 gives an idea of such a
scheme for 1979 and shows the numbers of participants involved. Another
result of the scheme is the building up of a local cadre of staff with special
training in curricula and methods. These key personnel have moved into ,:chool,
district and State administrative positions, resulting in an administrative
staff much more concerned with instructional quality than is usual in
educational administration. Other activities for various curriculum projects
include the orientation of teachers in the field for the testing of project
materials in clusters of schools in given areas. Moreover, orientation
workshops and sessions are held at CDC for other education personnel from
the central or local levels, such as supervisors and education officers.
7.13    In terms of quality, it appears that the impact of these courses both
at the central and State levels has not yet been sufficiently studied
but evaluation is intended to be stressed increasingly in the future. It
seems, however, that some doubts exist because of the shortness of briefing
sessions, us to the KPs' effectiveness for conducting in-service courses.
Furthermore, it also appears doubtful whether the KPs, who are nominated
and selected by the State Education Offices, have necessarily the required
leadership qualities and the proper means at the local level for organizing,
oonducting and following up their courses in the field. From a questionnaire
survey organized by the national PCR team, the impression was gained in
interviews with KPs that the training they received could be improved and
that they felt they had insufficient support and/or incentives in the field P/.
CDC is aware of the shortcomings and is trying to improve the situation in
the future, although the remedies are not all within its jurisdiction. The
analysis of the returns to the questionnaires addressed to the KPs revealed
a more than satisfactory state of affairs as regards all the parameters of
both CDC and State organized sessions, but the responses to the open-ended
part of the forms showed some revealing comments and lacunae. Only one-third
of the respondents indicated that some evaluation of the courses was conducted.
Conclusions
7.14    To summarize the operation and impact of CDC at present, it appears
that the most positive aspects are to be found in the central activities,
whereas the more difficult ones are at the receiving end, in the diffusion
and dissemination of curriculum ideas and materials and their implementation
on a nationwide basis. This is why at the generation stage, with due regard
taken of the extreme complexity of the task, it might have been appropriate
to consider a feasibility study to identify the pre-requisites. In this
mechanisms, structures and other requirements for disseminating curriculun
renovations and generalizing them in the classroom, as well as the modalities
of mass production of newly developed materials, whether textbooks or
equipnent, would be defined.
/ It is fair to recognize that strong performances of classroom teachers
were observed at several levels in several subJects (Ref.: WB staff on
review/supervision mission, June 1979).



- 38 -
7.15    it appears that more streamlining and coordination of the
multiplicity of CDC's activities, programmes and projects and
more emphasis on in-depth evaluation of the results obtained would be
beneficial especially if carried out with the cooperation of all agencies
and divisions ooncerned, and in particular of the examination syndicate.
Moreover, more consideratinn could be given to the involvement of pre-
service teachers in training in the curriculum development process and
to incorporating in teacher-training curricula the major findings of the
CDC projects. Finally, the status and recruitment of the KPs should be
revised if possible and they should have full support from CDC and from
State and district education offices, besides training for leadership,
in which MESTI 1/, Ministry of Education Staff Training Institute, could
most likely play an important role. An in-depth study should be carried
out analysing post-training activities and career changes of a sample
of those who received training at CDC. Great care also should be taken
to place CDC adequately within the future developments of the regional
"educational resources centres" foreseen in the Fourth World Bank
Education Project, taking into consideration its leadership potential
and professional competence.
B.  EUCATIONAL TEIEVISION
bJectives
7.16    The general objective of this project component is, witthin the
overall Malaysian educational strategy, to infuse into the general
education system an adequate component of science and technology by improved
visual presentation of science and mathematics through the Educational TV
Service. The more specific objectives were to:
(a) Appropriately equip a TV studio for the production of education
material on video-tapes for broadcasting, and to provide related
material.
(b) Supplement classroom instruction by transmitting for about 40
hours per week over the national TV network an appropriate
series of programmes for mathematics, science,languages, etc.,
and by providing about 5,500 TV receivers to mainly rural
primary and secondary schools, as well as by providing schools
in remote rural areas with about 2,500 small petrol generators
to operate their TV sets.
(c) Distribute about 18 video-tape recorders to teacher-training
institutions and to the State audio-visual aids centres in
order to help improve the ability of teachers in the use of
ETV through pre-service and in-service courses.
/ The purpose of ME9TI is to improve the overall performance of the
education system through training in managerial and administrative
skills, and stimulating communication and exchange of ideas between
pBrsonnel at the various administrative levels of the education
system (Fifth WB Education Project).



- 39 -
Central Unit
7.17    The educational TV unit in Educational Media Services is now fully
manned and operational, with adequate technical and professional
facilities. Its task is to interpret the general policy determined by
the National Advisory Committee under the Ministry of Education and to
produce its own software in the required variety of subjects. Most of
its productions are in the form of 19-lesson series broadcast over a full
academic year of 40 weekst duration.  Each lesson is repeated four times
over a fortnightly period in order to accommodate a variety of time-tables
in the receiving schools. There are-now 29 different packaged series
which cover material of interest to the primary schools (50 per cent of
the broadcasts), to the lower and upper secondary general schools (40 per
cent) and to the teachers and the general public (10 per cent).
7.18    The subjects covered deal in a systematic way with the teaching
of mathematics, science, biology, Malay language, 13nglish, history
and commerce. They also deal with topics for an out-of-school target
population (teachers and parents) under the series of "Current Scientific
Affairs" and "World of Education". The broadcasts are transmitted over
the National Broadcasting System and beamed through the telecommunications
network.  All school programmes are broadcast from 7.30 am to 5.00 pm.
The programmes for the general public are broadcast in the early evening.
The Unit now beams its programmes for 37 hours per week to Peninsular
Malaysia, having started its regular broadcasts in 1972, but for only
24-26 hours per week to Sarawak and Sabah, having started its regular
broadcasts in 1976. This lower figure is stated to be the result of
limitations imposed by the National Broadcasting Service (The Third
Education Project includes assistance to the spread of ELTV to Sabah and
Sarawak).
Output,Content and Quality
7.19    One of the major objectives of ETV is to offer support material
in the teaching of a number of basic school subjects. It is in
this light that the content and quality of the programmes produced (and,
for that matter, the viewing and the contact hours by the pupils) should
be mainly assessed. The objectives of ETV broadcasts are, naturally, much
wider than providing support material, but those additional benefits would
be by-products of the services and even taken all together, might not Justify
the investment and-the running expenses involved in such a project.
7.20    The ETV Unit has produced complete series on most of the basic
subject areas. The major policy lines regarding subject areas
are determined by the National Advisory Committee, chaired by the Director-
General of the Ministry of Education. The lTV team, with assistance from
CDC and panels of inspectors and other specialists in the subjects selected,
prepare the content and the technical team produces the tapes. With each
series and for each lesson there are leaflets for the guidance of teachers
so that the maximum benefit may be obtained from class viewing. Most of the
programmes, however, were prepared some eight years ago when the Service
was still in its early development stages and would need re-editing and,



- 40 -
possibly, redrafting. From information obtained, the Unit is now in the
process of engaging in such revision work. An Evaluation and Utilization
Section has been set up which is using feed-back from pupils and teachers
to effect the necessary improvements. On the whole, the impression
gained is that the ETV unit is operating in a professional manner and is
aiming at high standards. It is relevant to mention that a Ministry of
Finance survey committee has recently authorized extended assistance
to the ETV Unit.
Reception
7.21     The distribution of 5,500 TV sets has been carried out to
nearly all schools, mostly in areas where the local authorities or the
voluntary school organizations could not provide them. To enable schools
in remote areas where there is no electricity network to operate their
TV sets, a total of 2,500 petrol generators of 0.5 KW power each were
distributed. As the needs proved to be higher than anticipated under
the Loan Agreement, the Government supplemented the original purchases with
further allocations (through the Third Education Loan) so that, eventually,
7,600 TV sets and 4,000 generators have been distributed. A localized
system of repairs has been set up. Furthermore, the Government provides
replacement units which, in 1981, have been budgeted to amount to 240 sets
and 136 generators, or about 3 percent of the amount of such equipment in
the field.
Video-Tape Recorders
7.22     Eighteen video-tape recorders have been purchased out of loan
money. These, plus a few more purchased from local funds, have been
distributed mostly to teacher training colleges and to state media
services to promote the use of TV programmes and to improve teacher-training
methods.
Field Officers
7.23     Full-time Educational Mass-media Officers have now been appointed
to each State Audio-Visual Aids Centre in compliance with a special covenant
included in the Loan Agreement.    Their responsibility is, among other things,
to promote the effective use of educational TV by teachers and schools, to
supervise the system of repairs and maintenance, and to liase with schools
and the Central EMS Unit.
Teacher, Schools: Use Factors
7.24     The difficulty of assessing the benefits from an educational TV
service is inherently similar to that of assessing the benefits from
an educational and training system. The task, in this case, is made even
more difficult given the fact that the main role of ETV, as assigned to
it by the authorities, has been that of a supplementary medium, and that
its subsidiary ones are educational and developmental. Thus, the analysis
would be limited, to some extent, to deductions drawn from statistical
information. From the statistical reports prepared and published by the



- 41 -
Evaluation and Utilization Section of the Educational Media Services, it
is learned that 62 per cent of the primary schools and 42 per cent of the
secondary schools which own a TV set switch on to view the programmes.
Of those schools which use TV as a teaching support medium, the average
viewing per series of programmes is 45 per cent in the primary schools
and 27 per cent in the secondary schools. For each topic, beamed four
times over a fornight, the class contact hours are about 40 per cent for
the primary schools and 25 per cent for the secondary schools.
7.25    If one bears in mind that educational TV has not been made
compulsory by the school authorities, and considermtoo the various
external adverse factors such as the time-tabling difficulties and the
awkwardness in wheeling the TV set from class to class, the scores above
are not disheartening. In fact, the comment of primary and secondary
teachers during field interviews were favourable on the usefulness and
the quality of the programmes broadcast.  Secondary school teachers would be
inclined to improve more on their utilization factors if the strain of
having to prepare their students for the State examinations was alleviated
by a more liberal allocation of TV viewing time in the school time-table
and by a greater number of TV set available.
7.26    A country with as widely dispersed a population as that of Malaysia
appreciates the benefits derived from the widening of the educational
horizons of its youth and from the contribution to the promotion of social
development and unity obtained through TV. The role of the State Education
Mass-Media Officer could be made more productive if he were given as a high
priority, the task of visiting the schools as often as possible to promote
ETV utilization and to help deal with practical problems such as maintenance
and power supply which, in some schools, appear to be the main obstacles for
not switching on as often as desired. Further detailed analysis might be
desirable concerning pupils' impressions about the value of the programmes.
More date on the effects of TV on pupils' achievements would be useful, as
woxld information of the impact of programmes on non-pupil viewers.
C. VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
Objectives
7.27    The general objective of this project component was to assist in
implementing the Malaysian educational strategy aiming, among other
things, to meet manpower requirements through the expansion, improvement and
rationalization of technical and vocational education. As specific objectives,
the project contributed to establishing 7 secondary vocational schools and
1 secondary technical school in strategically selected areas of the Malaysia
Federation (with a geographical distribution and a student capacity as shown
in Annex VYI/4) and to equipping these schools with appropriate facilities.



- 42 -
7.28    Vocational Schools: the purpose of the Vocational Schools is to
provide practical and theoretical training geared towards the
the development of employable basic skills that could be readily adapted
to changing industrial requirements. They will provide training in the
following trades:
(a) Industrial trades: machine shop and bench fitting; sheet metal
and welding; motor mechanics; electricity (electrical installations);
electronics (radio and TV repairs); building construction;
refrigeration and air-conditioning (installation and repairs).
(b) Commercial trades: copy-typing; shorthand-typing.
7.29    Technical School: the purpose of the Technical School is to provide
basic scientific and technological education to qualify those
successfully completing courses to enter industrial employment or to further
their higher education 1/. The School will provide training in the following
trades: mechanical engineering; electrical engineering; building construction
and commerce.
School Capacity and Enrolments
7.30    On the whole, the capacity of each school has been of the order
specified in the Loan Agreement both in terms cf student and of
hostel places, as can be seen by comparing the tables in Annex VIT/5.
Staff accommodation has also been provided as planned. The total numbers,
however, of students enrolled and of students accommodated in the hostels
is about 90 per cent of the planned figures, for two main reasons:
(a) The scheduled class size has been reduced from 40 to 36 students
per class.
(b) The hostel accommodation capacity has been slightly reduced in
order to allow more space for common services, including prayer
rooms.
Courses
7.31    Schools have been equipped to offer training in the skills specified
by the Project Agreement. All vocational schools continue, with some
variations to meet local needs, to offer courses in the fields listed above.
All courses are of 2-years'full-time duration. The following modifications,
however, have been noted and show flexibility in meeting the needs of employment.
The vocational school at Miri has recently been devoting all its activities
tc serving the Bintulu Project. This is an industrial development project,
under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour and Manpower, which provides
short 6-months courses to train manpower for industry. The school has been
equipped with supplementary facilities to offer training in plumbing, pipe-
fitting and bar-bending. It runs separate courses for brick-laying and
masonry and for carpentry and joinery, but has suspended its training in
motor-mechanics, in radio and TV and in refrigeration and air-conditioning.
/ Para. 2.11 (a) of First Education Project Oompletion Rlepcrt, December 1Q78.



- 43 -
7.32     The vocational school at Klang participates in the scheme for
in-service training courses by accommodating such classes during after-
noons and evenings in parallel with its normal day courses. The
vocational school at Sibu offers only six, instead of the usual seven,
industrial trade courses offered by most other schools, having suspended
training in welding and sheet-metal, which apparenty is covered sufficiently
by the training activities of the vocational schools at Miri and at
Kuching. The vocational school at Tawu is being equipped to offer
separate courses in both motor-mechanics and in heavy plant-machinery,
but has left out of its program courses in refrigeration and air-conditioning.
7.33     The training curricula and syllabi adopted by the Vocational
Schools appear appropriate for the objectives set for these institutions,
as described above, although they are probably less flexible than the
Industrial Training Centres run by the Ministry of Labour. The percentage
allocation of weekly time between general education subjects (24 percent)
and trade training (76 percent), as well as the 50 percent of time allocated
for actual skill training (as shown in the table in Annex VII/6) is considered
to be conducive to achieving the objectives set and it conforms to interna-
tionally accepted patterns for such schools. Such a system operating for
50 periods of 40 minutes a week for 40 weeks a year, in an environment
which is largely residential, affords very good opportunities for effective
training.
7.34     However the 2-year programme of studies is barely adequate to impart
sufficient skill-training in the required variety of skills for craftsman
training and to develop confidence in the appropriate industrial processes /1.
The Department of Technical and Vocational Education expresses its apprecia-
tion of this limitation and contemplates providing one year special courses
for those who do not wish to pursue further education after qualifying SPVM
examination. The thinking, however, regarding the curricula of such a
third year of training does not appear to have been, as yet, finalized and
it may be worth giving some more consideration to the suggestion for
integrating this third year with industrial training as some sort of a
"sandwich" system, rather than to use it as a year of narrow specialization
training spent totally on the school premises.
7.35    This latter option would, among other things, require investment
in expensive machines for processes which not all the staff may, as yet,
be able to teach fully and effectively. The first option, on the other
hand would be less expensive to implement, would strengthen the confidence
of the students in handling real-life jobs, would introduce them to current
practices and processes in industry, and would provide opportunities for
the teaching staff to keep themselves up-dated with industrial processes
and practices. It is vital for teachers instructing others in industrial
skills, themselves to possess these skills. Finally it would help integrate
the schools with industry and would facilitate the placement of school
graduates.   In any future appraisal of the system, occupational requirements,
the training programmes and achievement testing would be more closely
related to one another and to the abilities of the students.
/1. Alternatives were discussed in "Malaysia, Proposals for Educational
Development," Unesco, April 1975 and "Malaysia, Reinforcement of Education
and Manpower Development," Unesco, November 1977.



7.36    The Technical Sohool at Kuala Trengganu has been designed and
equipped to offer training at the junior technician level in
building construction, in mechanical and electrical engineering, and in
commerce. All courses are of 2-years' full-time duration. The school
also operates two pre-university classes (lower and upper 6th) for those
who have ocompleted courses and who wish to improve their standing with
institutions of higher studies. The curriaulum of the technical schools
does not provide for the option of electrical engineering, mainly it is
understood, because most of what would be taught in this course is covered
by the traditional physics syllabus. The electrical workshop wing has as
a result, been closed. The school now offers three, instead of the
intended   two classes in building construction and in mechanical
engineering, and two classes in commerce.
7.37    The final set-up in the operations of the various schools, as
described above, is in conformity with the general policy of
adapting activities to the needs of the area and of the country. Efforts
should be made, however, to use the resulting redundant machinery by
re-allocatinrg it to other schools that are in a position to make good
use of it. The curriculum and syllabus adopted by the technical schools
as analysed in Annex VII/6, is more appropriate for furthering the students'
opportunities for higher studies in science and technology than for providing
them with terminal qualifications to work as junior technicians.
Training facilities
7.')8   A systematic procedure has been attempted to provide each of the
project schools with the necessary supply of appropriate equipment
for workshop and laboratory training and with the other basic necessities
such as benches, cabinet spaces, etc. A Specifications Drafting Unit for
equipment has been set up with the Department of Technical and Vocational
Education and a Tenders Evaluation Team has been set up within the PIU.
The designing of benches and other furniture has been assigned to the
Public Works Department. Major items of equipment have been supplied
through international bidding. Most of the small tools and all of the
furniture and other items of woodwork have been supplied through local
tendering.
7.39    In practically all cases, the quality and construction of the
furniture and the other woodwork items has been sub-standard and
much of it is already in need of extensive repair work. It has been
difficult to allocate responsibility but it appears that this situation
is the outcome of inexperience, of bad design, and of ineffective control
procedures when accepting deliveries. The equipment purchased from abroad
is, on the whole, of appropriate design and specification. However, here
too are examples of equipment having had a surprisingly high rate of
failure, not being accurate enough to be useful for the purpose for which
it was intended, or being unusable because it had been delivered without
all necessary accessories or without instruction manuals, or being made
in a dimensional system for which there are no tools or spares available
in the local market.



- 45 -
7.40   Most of these weaknesses and problemis could have been avoided
or minimized by   measures such as establishing closer cooperation
between the unit which draws up the specifications and the team which
evaluates the tenders, drawing up detailed documents when awarding the
tenders so that the supplier is tied down to conform to all necessary
conditions, and briefing the recipients (the school Principals) in detail
on what is expected to be delivered to them. International bidding has
both advantages and weaknesses.  A necessary pre-requisite, however, for
effective equipment utilization is a reliable after-sales service, to
which appropriate consideration should be given when evaluating and
awarding the tenders. An active feed-back system between the end-users
and the procurement staff would help to improve future situations.
7.41   Apart from ineffective use of some of the machinery and equipment
for the reasons mentioned above, two further factors tend to limit
the scope of the training facilities. One is lack of confidence on the
part of the teachers themselves in demonstrating processes which require
the operation of some sophisticated equipment, and the other is the
apparent freedom to leave out items of training in particular processes
either because the syllabus is not specific enough about them or because
the examiners do not consider the items as amenable to "good" examination
questions.
7.42   Special short up-grading courses in Navigation and Marine Engineering
have been held in the Sibu vocational school, to enable in-service
persons to sit for professional examinations and to further their sea-
competency qualifications. There is capacity for up to 120 student places,
though the normal student population at any one time is about 90 persons.
It has not been necessary for the school to supply any special equipment
for instruction in these topics.
7.43   The training facilities of the vocational schooJsare, on the whole,
appropriate for technical training with the exception, perhaps, of a
certain make of lathe and of some electronic meters and power supply units
which are sub-standard for the purpose they have been selected to serve.
However, what may be adversely affecting training opportunities is the high
incidence of breakdowns of machinery and equipment, which limit the number
of available training stations. In each workshop and in each school there
is likely to be a certain proportion of out-of-order machinery and equipment
and in some workshops and schools this may be as high as 60 per cent.
7.44   The problem may be analysed as follows: an apparent absence of a
comprehensive maintenance and repairs system: some "too-sensitive-
to-handle" equipment, the unavailability in the local market of spares for
relevant makes; and deficiencies in attitudes towards maintenance and in
resource-fulness in effecting repairs. It is strongly recommended that
determined and concerted action be taken to solve this problem. A system,
either centralized or localized depending on which form would be more
appropriate for the country, should be adopted and made fully operative.
HeadmAaters should be encouraged to give the matter top priority. Instructors
should be further trained, through special courses organized possibly by
the Technical Teachers Training Colleges with outside expert assistance,
and assigned to involve themselves in repairs.



7.45   As for the training facilities of the technical school, the
curriculum adopted provides for workshop time which is less than
7 per cent of the total and this hardly justifies the capital expenditure
on workshop facilities. The general education is intensive and of high
standard. Both staff and students take pride in the high grades (95 per
cent passes) achieved in the national examinations (see Annex VII/7),
which enable the great majority of those pasaing out to enrol for higher
studies in collegE and universities.
7.46   Information gathered from the Department of Technical and
Vocational Education indicates that Government aims at eventually
integrating the secondary technical schools into the general education
system of the country. This policy may be correct given the objectives
set for these schools and in v'ew of the fact that real technician-training
is offered at the Polytechnics and Colleges and is open to more than just
the entrants from secondary technical schools. Within this long-term
objective of these schools the situation calls for a review of the
laboratory and workshop training facilities. It may be more appropriate
to devise a "comprehensive" workshop space with a wide variety of "one-off"
items of machinery and equipment that can demonstrate and offer limited
hands-on experience in technological processes and tests.
Teaching Staff
7.47   The professional competency of the teachers and instructors is, on
the whole, of a reasonable standard. Teaching is active and the
students appear well-behaved and participating.  The teacher/student ratio,
now at 114, is considered correct. The technical schools have e predominance
of university graduates (that at Kuala Trengganu has 70 per cent of its staff
university graduates, half of them with a B.Sc. degree). The vocational
schools rely heavily on graduates from the Technical Teachers Training
College. Of the schools visited only the vocational school at Sibu in
Sarawak seemed to be understaffed in terms of qualified teachers. One
of the explanations given was the unavailability of enough local teachers
trained at TTTC.
7.48   Though training at the TITC is well designed, the teachers,
effectiveness and confidence would be further increased if they
were given the opportunity to acquire more industrial training. Consideration
could be given to the suggestion for the adoption of a policy by which students
at the Teachers Training Colleges could construct items which could be sold
and/or engage in school and contractual repair work, as well as undergo
some further pre-service or in-service industrial training which would
supply them with more substantial opportunities than hitherto for real-life
work, would strengthen their confidence in giving technical skill-training,
and encourage them to engage, with their students, in school repair and
construction work.



- 47 -
Output and Follow-up
7.49   The success rate at the technical schools is impressively high.
In 1980, the final year studentsof the Iuala Trengganu Technical
School had a success rate at the Malaysia Certificate of Education
State examinations of 97 per cent, with three-quarters of them passing
with grades 1 or 2. Drop-outs are very few and those-passing out
easily secured places in universities. The success rate of the
vocational sohools, however, is regrettably low. The average passes
in the Malaysia Vocational Certificate Examinations State examinations
vary from 54 to 30 per cent, as can be seen from Annex VII/7. One
explanation given was the low qualifications of the students at entry
due to the comparatively low popularity of the vocational schools.
The Governnent confidently expects that the situation will gradually
improve and that as a result of anticipated higher future demands for
those who complete vocational school the ensuing competition to secure
enrolment will enable the schools to be more selective, and thus improve
on their showing in the State Examinations.
7.50   The solution to this problem, however, depends on the answer to
a key question: are the vocational schools designed primarily
to supply industry with a well-trained and versatile stock of craftumen?
If so, they should aim at providing terminal qualifications. Or are they
progressively to cater more and more for the future technician? If so,
high scores at the SPFV would be meaningful only in as much as they would
further the students' prospects for higher education at the Polytechnics
and Colleges. If training for terminal qualifications constitutes the
long-term objective, the high failure rate deserves the serious concern
of the appropriate Government authorities.
7.51   The solution may lie not so much in up-grading the students'
standards at entry, as in re-appraising the objectives of the
SPVM examinations. In a country where paper qualifications mean so
much to a person's career, the basic principles of the trades examinations
may merit review. If, however, the future skilled workers and the craftsmen
will come, predominantly, from the Industrial Training Centres and from
the Apprenticeship Scheme, then perhaps the present situation may be
tolerable. The vocational school curriculum seems to have broadened over
the years and thus tended to become pre-vocational rather than job specific.
In any case, how far those trained in the vocational schools are
strengthening the skilled cadres required by industry is difficult
to assess. Comments made by the industrlal sector speak favourably of
the attitudes to work of those trained and of their ability to adapt
themselves. The "tracing" system, however, has not been working
effectively, with most of those trained neglecting to fill in and
return the forms issued to them by the schools.



- 48 -
D. UNIVEMSITI SAINS MAIAYSIA (USM)
Facilities
7.52   The provision of facilities for the USM Science Schools and of some
common ones for the whole university would, according to the appraisal
report, assist in carrying out the university level,SMP development plans
which were later continued in both TMP and FMP. More specifically, this
component, by far the largest of the four project components, was to provide
a great deal of the total facilities and equipment of USM, especially in
the sciences - in particular science with education and the applied sciences -
in order to contribute aignificantly to reducing the shortage of graduate
science teachers and of other personnel requiring training in science.
Operational outcomes
7.53   Background information on USM objectives in general and its structure
and courses are given in Annex VII/8. This describes also the modes
of operation of this comparatively new and innovative University, and some
of its main characteristics and policies: school system, off-campus programme,
matriculation classes, residential system, and academic year structure, as
well as the characteristics of the Bachelor of Science and the Bachelor of
Science with Education Degrees.
Enrolments and graduate output
7.54   The table below summarizes the present situation (B) compared with
the appraisal estimates (A), as regards USMts enrolments and graduate
outputs:
At                 Dirolments                   Graduate output
Appraisal                                           A          B
Stage     A, for          1978        1979    (1970-1980) 1st Degree
1971       1980                                           -(__ __ _   __ _ _ _9__ __ _ _   2 -W 1972
Science           400     2,650/'         n.a.       1,847"v     2,200      1,444 Y
Arts                                      n.a.       1,703                   2,094
Total                      5,000         3,299       3.55                    3,538
Pcst-Graduate                                          100
Students
/ This corresponds to P.4.15 of Appraisal report, Par. 4.13 of sane report
indicates 3000.
Or about 1/3 of total enrolments of Malaysian Universities in what Is
called "other Sciences", including Natural Sciences, Pharmacy, Applied
Sciences, Environmental Sciences, Food Technology and Jcience witi
Education.
2/ Including education students and applied science graduates (398).
V or around 18 per cent of total enrolments in Malaysian UnIversiti6s.



- 49 -
The total output of first degree science graduates was 1.444 from 1972-1979.
Adding the 1980 output of 315 gives. for a 9-year period, 1.759 graduates.
or 83 percent of the appraisal estimates for a decade. Annexes VII/10 to
VII/12 give student admissions and outputs over the years for the various
schools as well as enrolments and outputs of higher degree students.
7.55 The total enrolment in June 1979 of science students amounted to
70 percent of the enrolment expected at appraisal /1. The reasons given
for this shortfall are (a) the delay in the construction of adequate
facilities under Loan 810-MA; (b) the difficulty experienced in obtaining
sufficient Bumiputra /2 candidates for admission to the science stream;
(c) the difficulties in obtaining student ethnic balance in the science
stream; (d) the consequent restriction of the Humanities and Social Sciences
intake so as to maintain a 60:40 ratio between the Science and Arts enrolments,
reflecting employment opportunities; and (e) the need to maintain a viable
staff:student ratio in view of the difficulties faced in the recruitment
of suitable staff, especially in some fields of science and technology.
The University aimed at an overall ratio of 1:10.
7.56 The contribution of USM in making good the shortages of scientific
personnel is substantial. As the ratio of science-based to arts-based high
level manpower (excluding teachers and unclassified manpower) is foreseen /3
as increasing slightly by the end of 1990 from the 60:40 ratio in 1973 to
a 63:37 ratio, the role of USM in this respect should be even greater in the
future.
7.57 The total output /4 of B-Science with Education /5 graduates from
1974 to 1979 was 535, or 21 percent of the total number of science graduate
teachers in Peninsular Malaysia. According to the "Mid-Term Review of
the Third Malaysia Plan" estimates, 3,893 graduate teachers were produced
by the universities, of whom 1,313 or one third were science teachers.
The B.Science with Education output from USM, from 1975 to 1978 being 436,
the contribution of USM to the national science graduate teacher output is
about one third. The FMP (1981-1985) will call for a strengthening of the
/1. According to the Fourth Malaysian Plan, USM is estimated by 1985
to reach a total enrolment of over 5,600 students or nearly 20 percent
of all enrolments in Malaysian universities.
/2. "Sons of the Soil," constituted ethnically by Malays.
/3.  Ref.:  Unesco Sector Updating Report entitled "The Reinforcement of
Education and Manpower Development" Malaysia, Paris, November 1977.
/4. Average enrolments over the years 1976-1977 to 1979-1980 being
estimated at 526.
/5. In view of the great shortage of science teachers for the country's
secondary schools, the University introduced as early as 1972 an
integrated and concurrent Bachelor of Science with Education course.
This differed from the more traditional pattern of awarding a Diploma
in Education only to students who already possessed a first degree.
Another feature of this programme was to require students to read two
science subjects besides doing service mathematics so that they would be
able to teach more than just one subject when they graduated.



- 50 -
supply of graduate teachers. particularly in the sciences and related
subjects where provincial estimates foresee for the decade 1981-1990
an annual additional need of 1,000 science and mathematics teachers /1.
7.58 As will be seen in the next section, and as it is to some extent
confirmed by the follow-up studies of graduates (the last section of
this project component), USM's flexible and imaginative course offerings
appear, on the qualitative side, to evidence the adequacy of the education
and training offered.
Curricula
7.59 In general the studies were modified from an initial three-year
"texamination paper" system (10 papers per year) to a more flexible "credit-
unit" /2 system in 1974/75, refined in 1977 with a length of study for
graduation of eight semesters (4 years). All the new programmes in operation
offer 2 or 3 alternatives, one of which is a "general studies" to strengthen
inter-disciplinary studies. Some characteristics of the Science and Education
and of the Science degree programmes, of particular relevance to the outcome
of the project, are indicated in Annex VII/8, while Annex VII/9 gives the
specific requirements for the Bachelor's degree in Science and in Science
with Education. USM also offers central advisory and-consultancy services
on the application of educational technology to teaching methods and on the
preparation and production of learning materials.
Staff Development
7.60 The evolution of total USM academic staff and of the proportion of
foreign staff is given below:
1970       1975      1979
Total No.                            34        285        378 /3
Percentage of Foreign Staff          21%        38%        26%
/1. This would be double the figure estimated in the Unesco Sector Updating
report, Unesco, Paris 1977 above mentioned. The explanation is to be
found in the assumption, in FMP, of a much larger expansion of upper-
secondary enrolments and of a lowering of the student/teacher ratios
during the period 1981-90.
/2. One unit is 14 hours of class contact (or 28 laboratory/workshop hours).
Between 120 and 140 units are required for a degree.
/3. Out of which 87 (academic staff and ASTS fellows) obtained their academic
qualifications from USM by 1980 (not counting the 31 administrative staff
who also graduated from USM).



- 51 -
7.61 Annex VII/13 in Table I compares the appraisal estimates for staff
and student numbers (excluding social sciences), broken down by schools,
with the existing situation in 1979. It also shows in Table II the evolution
of full-time teaching staff by national and external personnel. These
data indicate that there is a significant trend towards an increased
proportion of national staff. Furthermore there is apparently a reduced
number of staff in the Science, Education and Applied Sciences schools,
in particular there are fewer full-time staff in the Schools of Physics,
Mathematics and Chemical Sciences and in Education Studies, but except
for the latter the staff:student ratio is much higher than the appraisal
estimates for about 1:10.
7.62 USM is active in staff training, carried out in three programmes.
The ASTS (Academic Staff Training Scheme) programme is an attempt by
the University to identify and train suitable Bumiputra candidates to
assume teaching positions in the University. There is a limited number of
such staff available, especially in the fields of science and technology.
Under this scheme, first degree holders are sent abroad for higher degrees
after a short internship at the University. A second scheme ASHES (Academic
Staff Higher Education Scheme) caters for academic staff already employed
by the University who require further study to improve their qualifications
in their chosen fields. The ratio of fellows studying under the ASTS and
ASHES programmes is so far about 9 to 5 respectively the total number sent
from 1970 to 1979 being 270, of whom 144 have so far returned. Since in
the last two years more than 100 were sent, of whom a number have not
finished their training, the numbers who have returned are rather satisfactory.
7.63 A third scheme is purely internal, staff being assisted by the teacher-
learning advisory unit (TLAU) in conjunction with the Educational Technology
Unit, which is part of the School of Educational Studies. TLAU was established
only in 1980 and is aimed at assisting academic staff to improve their teaching
efficiency. There are also teaching/training programmes for users of
the Computer Centre these are followed by academic staff from USM's various
schools.
7.64 It appears that the staff of the various schools is at present adequate
on the whole although the workload of teachers in the Educational Studies
Schools is very heavy and is out of balance with that in the rest of the Schools.
The Computer Centre has a small nucleus of qualified academic staff, assisted
by 5 systems analysts and 2 programmers, and is expecting later 3 additional
academic staff who are at present overseas for further studies. There is a
recognised need for more staff with industrial experience and expertise in
computer applications. As for the other services, it seems that the library
and ETU have an appropriate number of competent professional and technical
staff /1. The rather good overall continuity in senior USM staff has
contributed to facilitating harmonious development and to its retaining its
initial principles through the process of academic reorganization.
/1. A policy of fringe benefits is trying to keep turnover in technician
and maintenance staff to a minimum; in 1981, these numbered 28 compared
with a total staff of 48, including 9 academic staff.



- 52 -
Adequaoy and use of facilities and equipment
7.65   There have been a few unfortunate problems, related to the design
of systems, in tho equipping of some of UJSM's faoilities: these are
mentioned 1/ elsewhere as examples of some of thie dirficullues raced by
MDU. In the Sohool of Physics the use of the undergraduate laboratories
could be increased, whereas the general laboratories for staff and student
research are heavily utilized.The former underutilization is comnmon to all schools
although,in,for example,Pharmacy in the School of Applied Sciences,
undergraduate laboratories utilization seems reasonable.
7.66   On the whole the equipment provided under the project, whether for
communal academic facilities, for research and teaching in the Schools
of Natural, Applied and Pharmaceutical Sciences, or for the audio-visual
aspects of the School of Educational Studies and of ETU, is adequate in
quality and quantity, is used properly and to a reasonable extent, and
is well serviced and maintained. Several maintenance workshops were
visited; they were staffed with technicians who are training further
maintenance staff on the job. Visits to the vast library for which the
project provided 2O0,000 books and about 4,500 periodicals (in the process
of offering computerized services to its users) and to the EfU impressed
the mission by the dynamism and quality of the staff and the layout of
equipment and apparatus. It is worth examining in more detail the utilization
of the Computer Centre, by far the single most expensive item of equipment
of the entire project v/. As will be seen below, extensive and varied
utilization of the Centre makes the latter an excellent project: the USM
computer system (as completed _/ at present with additional local funding)
is one of the largest and best-equipped among all Malaysian Universities.
The Computer Centre is used for teaching and training and assists in research
and performs administrative functions for other parts of the University.
A detailed description of these three major types of activities is given
in Annex VII/15.
7.67   As for ErU, a rather small investment of about 777,000 M$ appears
to have given very interesting returns. The courses provided by ETU
comprise (a) educational technology courses for the education programme,
(b) certificate course in educational broadcasting It and (c) certificate
course in educational technology (from 1978 onrardsY'. Services rendered
include a large variety of functions such as advice and consultations,
projection and television viewing, equipment loan and materials supply,
equipment maintenance, photograph7 and graphics media library, television
production, outdoor recording, sound production and recording, reprographics
and micro-teaching.
. Oxydation pond system for sewage treatment in the rarine Field Stati:rn;
Seawater reticulation system in MFS; fume extraction system riy talled for
the Schools of Biological and Chemical Sciences.
/ Although the first computer bought in 1975 had been financed from surplus
fumds available for the First Education Project (Loan 599-MA).
2/ Its characteristics are explained in Annex VII/14.
L This was a 12-month in-service course offered to candidates by the
Ministry of Education from 1975 to 1977, with about 12 teachers per
year.



- 53 -
External productivity: employment surveys
7.68    Science graduates: a survey was conducted by the University of
Malaysia (UM) Faculty of Education team 2/ to ascertain tile
opinions of employers regarding the employment of USM science graduates /
and the views of the graduates themselves regarding the relevance of IJSM
education and training to their present employment. Information was also
obtained concerning the nature of employment and the kinds of employers.
In-depth interviews were also conducted. The main aim of the survey was
to elicit from the employers and employees their perceptions of the
adequacy of their academic and professional preparation and the relevance
of USM education and training to present employment. The findings are
based on the 45 ner cent of questionnaires returned, and on 37 interviews
and concern a relatively small sample of employed science graduates: they
should therefore be regarded as suggestive and tentative rather than
definitive.
7.69    The general impression is that the training is both adequate and
relevant to the needs of employment. This is borne out, according
to the UM team, in some degree by the range of salaries received by the
134 graduates who provided the relevant infonnation. It is furthermore
interesting to note than an analysis of employment shows that the majority
of 134 science graduates are employed in areas of work closel- related
to their university education and training.
7.70    Science graduate teachers: a survey 21 was also conducted by the
local PCR team to ascertain the views of principals of secondary
schools, senior science teachers and USM science graduate teachers
themselves concerning various aspects of teaching and professional
preparation. The survey consisted of three different questionnaires 1JSMl 1,
USM 2 and USM 3, addressed respectively to principals, senior science
teachers and USM science graduate teachers. The questionnaires were
posted to 196 secondary schools throughout Peninsular Malaysia j/. Tn.
addition to the questionnaire survey, about 31 secondary schools were
visited and interviews were held with the principals and teachers concerned.
/ USM itself has conducted surveys on those who graduated in 1 76, 1977
and 1978.
/ Excluding B. Sc. graduates in Building, Hiousing and Planning.
/ A survey approach was adopted rather than a teacher-effectiveness study
or a case study approach because it was felt that time available for the
study was a limiting factor and, more importantly, that the ultimate
effects of the teachers upon the pupils depend upon many factors besides
teacher training.
/ About 86 per cent of the 196 USM 1 questionnaires were returned, but
only 58 per cent of the USM 2 questionnaires for Senior Science Teachers
were returned.  About 67 per cent of the 305 teachers returned the US1 3
questionnaires.  Possible reasons for the low rate of return from the
science teachers are that many of tlhem have been transferred, and there
were many others whose posting in particular schools were not anticipated.



7.71    The results of both the survey and the interviews are encouraging.
The majority of the principals and senior science teachers had
favourable impressions of the science teachers who had graduated from USM:
while they exhibited the usual uncertainties and inadequacies at the start
of their teaching career, they had a sense of responsibility and tried
to conform to the educational needs of the system. Although 52 per cent
felt that the courses could be improved the science teachers themselves
were generally satisfied with their education and training and made
several suggestions for improvement which have relevance not only for
USM but also for other tertiary training institutions in the country.



- 55 -
CHAPTER VIII
C O N C L U S I G N S
8.1     The overall conclusion which emerges from this report is that,
taken by and large, the World Bank's Second Education Project was
well-conceived, satisfactorily implemented (apart from the delays) and is
contributing significantly, with good prospects of a substantial multiplier
effect, to the education and training of Malaysiats skilled human resources.
8.2     This is not to say that, with hindsight, some things might not have
been done better - in fact, the lessons learnt from several short-
comings have led to great improvements in the implementation of subsequent
education projects - or that no complementary or remedial action is desirable
in the future. In this respect the main items to note or consider are:
A. Project Formulation
1. The Project Implementation Unit: for the first four years after
the Loan became effective the PTIU - formed for the First Project and still
engaged with this - consisted only of a director with very limited authority
and only a small supporting staff, and was therefore unable to function
efficiently. This was a major factor in the three years' delay in project
completion. Much of this delay, and of the substantially increased costs
resulting, could have been avoided had the Unitsts minimum staffing, and
the extent of its directorts authority, been agreed at the latest during
the loan negotiations, in the light of the workload expected from both
First and Second Projects.
2. Architect's brief: misunderstandings with consultant architects
evidence the need for architects' briefs to be more comprehensive than
those for the Project, which were limited to schedules and accomodation
areas. Problems could have been avoided had the briefs been more detailed
and included a full description of relevant climatic conditions and of the
oharacteristics and types of equipment of each facility to be provided.
3. Space standardss reluctance of the non-government professional
services to comply with the basic space standards and accommodation areas
specified by the Bank and included in the worksheets attached to the Loan
Agreement could have been avoided had agreement been reached between both
parties, before appraisal, on the minimum space standards consistent with
the desired quality of design.
4. Curriculum Development Centre: many problems could have been avoided
had a pre-appraisal feasibility study been made to identify structural,
procedural and methodological requisites for disseminating curriculum innovations
throughout the schools.



- 56 -
B. ProJect Implementation
5. Supervision: delays and problems could have been reduced, and
integration with preceding and subsequent projects improved, had there
been more continuity of staff in supervision and had specialists been
sent promptly when needed.
6.  Project changes: gains and savings resulting from some project
changes - including cuts to avoid cost overruns - might have been increased
had the Bank and Government together more fully weighed the changes' potential
effects on the attainment of project objectives.
7. Educational aspects: fuller information on educational aspects of
the project in PIU's quarterly reports would at times have been helpful in
identifying and speeding action desirable.
C. Project Functioning
8. Curriculum Development Centre: the Centrefs courses, projects and
other activities could benefit from some streamlining and coordination.
Given the Centre's professional competence and its potential for leadership
its contribution could be increased by fuller integration into the system
of local education resource centres, as it could also by giving greater follow-up
backing in cooperation with local authorities, to the KPs it trains and
by greater involvement in pre-service teacher training curricula.
9.  Educational TPlevision: ETV's contribution to national development
could appropriately be increased by:
(a) supplying TV sets to more schools, and more sets to selected
individual schools;
(b) extending viewing time in the schools;
(c) improving maintenance and power supply;
(d) more active assistance by State education mass-media officers
to increasing school TV viewing.
As a basis for expansion and improvement, fuller date are needed on pupils'
views as to the value of ETV programmes, on their potential educational impact
on other viewers, and on the effects of ETV on pupilst performance, while an
assessment would be valuable of the educational impact of video-tape recorders
in schools and teacher training colleges.
10. Vocational schools: the role of the vocational schools in Malaysia's
education and training system is not entirely clear (but will undoubtedly be
clarified in the course of the 5th Education Project) and they have shown
poor results in the Malaysia Vocational Certificate Examination (SPVM).
Merely lengthening the courses may not improve results and some form of
sandwich course, although difficult to arrange, may be more effective.
The teachers undoubtedly need more and better industrial experience, while
occupational requirements, training courses and achievement testing need
to be more closely related to one another and to the abilities of the students.



- 57 -
11. Vocational and technical schools: the technical schoolst workshop
equipment merits re-appraisal in view of the small amount of time given
to practical training. In the vocational schools present maintenance and
repair levels need raising: measures could include relevant staff-training
and promotion of right attitudes among the students.
For both technical and vocational schools there is room for
improving procurement procedures for machinery and equipment: these should
include feedback from users. The more stringent terms for international
tendering desirable should include ability to provide dependable after-
sales service.
D. Evaluation
12. More emphasis on evaluation is desirable, especially on that
of CDC's in-service teacher-training activities and in the form of tracer
studies of the subsequent performance of past students who have successfully
completed studies in USM and the vocational schools. An in-depth study of
KPs would also be valuable. At a later stage an impact evaluation of the
project should be made, to assess its contribution to development of the
countryts education system and of its skilled human resources.






- 59 -
A N N E X E S



- 60 -
,ANNEC
Annex I/h       Developments in the Educational system, 1970-1980
Annex IrV       Comparative analysis of initial and altered project
Annex IV/2      Comparative analysis of implementation sohedule
Annex WA/       CDC - Curriculum Development Centre
Comparative analysis of estimated and actually built areas
Annex iv/4      Technical and vocational schools
Comparative analysis of estimated and actually built areas
Annex IV/5      Uhlversity Sains Malaysia - Schools of Sciences and common
facilities: Comparative analysis of estimated and actually
built areas
Annex VIA       Summary of estimated and actual capital expenditure
Annex VI/2      Comparative analysis of planned and built areas
Cost per square foot and cost per student place
Annex VI/3      Schedule of disbursements
Annex VA/4      Reourrent expenditure for technical and vocational schools
Annex VIIA      OrganizatioQ of administration - Ministry of Education
Annex VII/2     Organizational Chart of CDC (1981)
Annex VII/3     Partioipants in in-service oourses 1979
Annex V3I/4     Technical and vocational studies
Capacity-enrolments-teaching staff: comparison between
appraisal targets and numbers in 1981
Annex VII/5     Vocational and technical schools - The curriculum structure
Annex VII/6     Vocational and technioal schools - Enrolments and numbers
of teachers by qualifioation
Annex VII/T     Vocational and technical schools - Success and failure
rates In national examinatiens
Annex VII/8     The Universiti Sains Malaysia (USM) - Objectives,
characteristics and structure (6 p.)
Annex VII/9     USM - Bachelor of Science Course Requirements (2 p.)
Annex VIIAO     USM - First degree output, 1972-1979
Annex VIA/l1    USM - Student admission, 19 9/7O to 1979/80
Annex VII/12    USM - Enrolment and output c higher degree students
Annex VII/13    USM - Capacity, Enrolment and Teaching Staff
Annex VII/14    Characteristics of the computer system in the USM computer
Centre
Annex VIIh5     U9M - Computer Centre: functions



- 61 -
Annet I/l
MATAYSTA: PFV0IDEMENeTS TJ ITTE FDUJCATT0NAT, 3YSTFlM, 1970- 1 (
Enrol mei:i.               Trim ,'T e (%,)
Leve.1                        17_0 I1 -                            -
1970      119 (IIevIed           97'- 75, |97r-80
Target)                          j
Primary                 1,682,187   1,890,974  2,037,734      12.4        7.8
Lower Secondary           420,644    643,073     848,225     52.9        31.9
Upper Secondary            97,8?7     178,313    314,684      82.3       76.4
Arts and Saience         92,928     166,40g    286,512     79.1        72.2
Vocational/Technical      4,899      11,904     28,172     143.0      136.7
Post Secondary             11,532     20,895      42,6o6     81.2       103.9
Te;ciher Training           3,887       7,940     111,9i614  104.3       88.'r
Pretiminary and     1/        -         1,195       .,176      -        165.8
Prepiratory Courses-
Certificate Level             -         1,221      3,280       -        168.6
Diploma Level               4,993 2    11,835     16,314     137.0       37.8
Degree Level !              8,331 4    15,008     21,480      80.1       43.1
Source:  Malaysia, Third Malaysiat Plan, 197G-1980, pp. 385-6;
Malaysia, Mid-Term Review of the Third Mqlaysian Plari 1976-80,
pp. 194-5.
Notes:    1/  Preparatory courses conducted at the Tnstitute Teknologi MARA
and all the universities except Universiti Teknologi Malaysia.
#/ Includes enrolment in pre-university, preliminary and introdiwtory
courses at the respectJve colleges.
y/ Includes enrolment In post-graduate courses at the respective
universities.
5/ Includes enrolment in pre-university, preliminary and introductory
courses at the respective universities.



cjF~T~VE M~I~&B ov flImAL ~          AwtUU -f 3
Projeart              ProJect Dncriptimn                                                         Closit   Date: 31.    a980
Ite             at Starttg Date: 7 July 1972           Change in ProJect Content              _                      __
uosruticu .     F   tu       WI IC I
Cocstruatim, furn1ising and              No chang.
CDC         OUlpament of a oentre for in-
servioe cO=ea for 160 teach.ers          (The Castre today a*oomiodates        100%          100%        1o00
and offlces for 73 research staff        more than 150 profO.eawlas
+ hostei aaoauirodatln for               and sub-profeaaionala).
120 teadceaw.
(a) Construction and partial             (a) In late 1977, tho Government (a) deleted    (a) deleted   (a) deleted
equipnent of a ne-.~- studio             decided to relocate the EIV
for TV programme production;             complex, delete it from this
EMG                                                       projeot and include it in
the 5th BEucation Project;
(b) Provision of 5,500 TV sets           (b) No ohange.                    (b)    -      (b)   -       (b)   100%
for use in Primary and
Seeondary Schools.
Construction, furnnis-ndg and
equipping of 7 vocational schools:
1. Taiping                               1.           No Change            1. 100%       1. 100%       1. 100%
VTS          2. Klang                                 2.                                2. 100%      2. 100%        2. 100%
and TS        3. Kluang                                3.                                3. 100Z      3. 100%        3. 100%
4. Temerloh                              4.                                4. 100%       4. 100%       4. 100
5. bMri                                  5. Additional workshop            5. 10Y%       5. 100%       5. 1005
facilities.
6. Sibu                                  6. Rostel block used -oy          6. 100%       6. 100%       6. 100%
secondary school.
7. Tawau                                 7. Heavy plant: additional area   7.   90%      7.  90%       7.  70%
+ 1 Technical school in
Fuala Trewganu                                   No Change               100%          100%          100%



om0AfgmE      M   M     C  IMMAL M1D AILrN    PRO.WT (Continued)
Status of Caopletion
Project              ?roject Descript'or.                 Change in Project Content           at Closing Date: 31 Dec. 19w8
Items          at Starting Date: 7 July                                                    onu72
Zonatructian  Ftsrnitue     EqImet
Congtruction, urnishing and
equipping of:
(a)    5 science schools:             (a):                                  (a)            (a)          (a)
1. School of frysics & Maths.        1. 2 separate wings (3 st.)          1. lCo%                     1. 100%
2.   '     n  Chemical Sciences      2.         No Change                 2. 100%                     2. 100%
3.      n     Biological             3.         No Change                 3. 100%      Partly         3. 100%
Sciences                                                                 funded
4.   n     n Applied 3ciences        5.   53% increase of teaching        5  100%      byU9M              10%
5.            Pharmaceutical                                                                             100rea
Scier.ces 
u S X          (b) Lecture theatres                  (b)             c criange             (b)  '00%      ':  100%      (b) 100% 
(c) Co-mputer Centre and Central      (a) Cenrtral facilities b_lt as       (c)  loc,      Cc  100%      (c) lCO%
Facilities                            part of School of Phz-sics and       for CF.                        CF.
paths. Com.puter Centre trans-       cocmputer                   0: paid
ferred to re'rabilited buildg.       deleted                     via lat
Ed.Pros.
(d) Auditorium.                       (d) Addittl facilities accepted            l00.      (dd 100%       (d) 100%
(e) Residential Hall                  (e) _if.ited t: _zt Phase only        (e)  10C5      Ce) i00Cc      (e) 1005
(f) :.aster Plan arnd S'-.e           Nf 1c .ange-
Develo"r:e.nt
(g) 'entre "or Edu.catioral           (5!          :z Cl-age                                    -         's' 1z0%
Services



Second e4uaetion Project   Low, SlO-PA
Appusil eeti1_t-                     COPARATIVE AIULYSIS OF   DQIIATFION S>InIi
Actual itnple_nattlo
years     I1-2           107'                       197'I         bi           1977            QT          197          1Q80
months __                           2 1           10                __7J                                               i __e     _ I_ng
Cu riculua Dvelon. Cnt=er
Demi en                              -__
Contreets * tene^r t rcs
Construetion                                     -      _
Def.et liability rerioei
Master list furn.& e,~Jlp.                                                  w
Tender & contract awards         ___
Equl,& .t_¢ r...... ___,_~ . _.  
Guarante. periou                                                       e|
Vocational & ta..  chools
Contracts & tender awards                                                               a _l                         taws 
Con3truCtion                                                         l =                K _    Du
Defect liablltty period
Master list rurn.& equip.                                                                                                  lost colng Sot                              P 
Tender & contract awards
Equip.& furn. procurwaent
Ouarantee period
USMK    PhaselI
Master Plan.ScihoolsI setun.                                                        rp tlc       ngde
Desim,- 
Contracts & tender awards                      ntn                                     |_
Construction                                                 ___-__
Def-.t liabilitv pertod          atertti  ist-
Master list fu,n & equip.
Tender & contrg't e_ards                                                                         a
Equip.& furn.procurwment
Ouerantee period
ElS M. Phase 2
Llbrary.Auditor.Hostels
Contrmet3 & tcnder awards |                                                                                                                                       x
ronst ruction                                                                                    t     he
Defect lIebilit  period        _i_                                                                __
Meeter ltt furn & equip.
Tender& -ontract awards
Equi p.& Nurn. prorureent  |                  in/
Guarantee period                                                                                             I                                    -



- 65 -
Annex IV/3
CDC -   MactriZM LV    3  Qi T C   E
Comparative Analysia of Fstimated nd Actually Built Areas
Apprais. E_tim.   Actual Built
Accommodation Units        No.   Area in  NO     Area in               Remarks
.________________________ _  sq.  t.  c                                   _ _
Administrative/Adviaory Unit
Director's Office               1       360     1
Deputy Direator's Office        1       240     1       630
Assist. Direotor's Office       -         _     1
Consultants/Advisors            6     1,C80     2
Curriculum Development Unit
Chief Curriculum Officer        1       .YSo    1             Several sections added since
Curriculum Officers            11     1,-30     ?   ) 10,370  population education unit,
Assist. Curriculum Officers    30     3,;00     ?   )         social science, etc.
Evaluation & Research Unit
Head of Unit Office             1        20     1
Measurement & Testing Office    4        1O     8     2
:i-      ~2,665
Textbook Officer                1         o40   ?   )
Assistant Officers             10     lO.'00 
Instructional Materials &
Special Services Urdit
Chief AV Office                 1        -40    1       _
Production Offioers             6       780             _
Conference Room (150)           1     1900      1     3,520
Common Area                     1     2,400     1   see cir.  Deambulatory.
In-Service Courses
Seminar Rooms (25)              4     1, '00    5     1,980
Research & Texbook Library                                    Now a resource centre, Mezzar,
with reading area                   5, 00           7,020   used as conference/eeminar r,
Sciences Laboratories with      3     4 -)o     1     4 530   1 lab. used as offices, 1 an
preparation room                2                   ) w  )    seminar room.
Language laboratories           2     1,-0      1       530   Used for In service IT & AV -
Domestic Sciences Room          1        750    1       530   Used as office space.
Prototype Section
Workshop (combined wood-        1
work, metal work) with              1,00          ) 6,250   Includes offices and stor-s.
offioe space (3)                                  )
Audio-visual Aide               1        '00    1       320
Audition room                   1       320     1       320
Printing & Collating rooms      -       -             1,950   Collating in corridor.
Stores                          -        _            1,260
Film Library                    1       too     1       325
Photo labs (3)                  2        240    2       208
Recording Room                           120   -        -
Film Viewing Room               1       750     1       450
Experimental Lab.               -       -       1      1,900
Graphic Art Room                1         00    1       325
Administrative Area:
General Offioe (15 typists)     1     1.'50
Clerks & Store Keepers          -     2, .)             9
A.C. Plant rooms                -       _       3     2,425
Toilets                         ?                     1,055
Total net area                       35,550          50.488
Walls & Cire. 4 3%         --        lC,665    _     10,110 o__                         _
Total Gross Area                     46,215          60,598   + 31%
Hostel Facilfties
120 Single Bedrooms           120    16. 00   124    16.120   Includtng toilets/show.rs.
DAning Pooja                    I     1, )O
Kitchen                                               2,640
Ancillary Arens                       I ")0           2 340
Lavatories                            1. )O
Total nef area                       22. )0          21 100
Walls & Zirc. 4 2`                                      415
Total Cross Aren                     27.'30          34,515   - 24.
Grand Total_                         7,   55    _    95,115   + 28.5%



SOD RDATION VRJET     : WAM 010-NA
TIUCACL MII NOCATIMNL SC01B
COMANATrVE ANIAL731S OF ~DAD AIND ACTUALLY BUILT AJUAS
ACAUITC PACIT Lfl                           hIARM     PAC        SDUPP
AJAB  ftc. ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   inaqft
O.                   i                                        -               - 
A     ,A8 AABB,A BA BAB A B A BA BA BIAB AB IA EA BA                             B A B ABIA       B A B       A        B
SECONDARY VOCATIONAL
3A.WV. Taiping      720 10 9  1    11    222     1 12    12 21    1 1    11  -1II - -       11  1   11   1  33  1 1     -  -  A A 13.8      i5i.895 . 16
3B. 8q. Kluang      720 10 10  1 1 1 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11               - - I 1 1 1 1 1 3 3         1 1 -    2   A A 13D.685    1A9,C95 + 14  1al. converted into
dbortjad r-o.
Radio/?N includes
eleotr0ftios.
3c. 3W. X1ang       720 10100I     1 112212       112 2 221 1 121 1 1 1 -1                  1 11  1    11  3    1     --  2  A A 13D.685    149,095    14A  *ewcarpentry shop.
1 a1. converted Into
3D. 4V. Temer1oh    720 10 9  1 1 1 2      2 21  1 2     2  22  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1     - -      1 1 1 1 1    3     1 1 -    -   A A 13,8       149,09  + 14   dirhn    o 
Sheet mtl
2 separmte roms..
2 elsat 20 students:
(Nautical Sc. sourses).
31.S.W. Sibu        ASo T9     1   1  1 A 2  11        1    1  11  1   1  11  1--   1    21  1 1    1  1  121 1    1 -     12  A A  70,865   90,000  + 2T  5 els.: Aostudgmts.
approx.       1 reaI6utWa block
used by *ecandary Sob.
1 woodwork shop.
1 el. eonvertad into
sowrthand roOm.
Kztenaion~ to eziating
-                             ~~~~~~~~~~wortshope for:
105,000  68Carpentry.
appr-tm.   Sibuz and Niri sgmartaent
blocks for staff houses
not inoluded in the
Loan Agreement.
30. WV. Tawau       A00OO  TI7 111       1     1  1  1  11  1  11   1  1  1.     12       2  . IIi1    1  122    11i81 M       A    92.970  110.000 +18    Commgre*roma u.ed as
approx.        olesuroom.              (B
I 1eavy 71't-
SiC0NDARY TEXCflICAL XS1KVLI 
3N. JWT. KaLla~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Electricity workshop
T,uuinrnu      6A01Io 16  2    --2        1  -   1     -   l.- I1  1 I     I12   2     1  1  11 1      ,   11-2.900                    102,600 +10   used an 2Clasroos. 
~~~I.  BIT.  Kumle                                                                       I                              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a pox  Coweles   *  7   can-
I                          2ar~ppol  ted iento 2 cla.
Note: A - Apprlei al Zatimete                                                                                             Total 8A2.020 ZOM    7 * 19
B - Built Area



KO 4 ELIATION PfWIJT W.IAN 810-NA
1UMIYIl7 SAINS MALAYSIA
aCm0LS OF SCIENCE AND CO3WON FACILITTM
00"?ARATM? AktLYSIS OF WI]MAUD AND ACTUAILY BUJILT AMLAS
LECUR I¶"ATRE
OFFICES           TEACHNGN LABRAI1t'BS                  AlD1             IRR
a  a  ~     ~    ~   ~ ~0        *3 1
a  A  ~~~~~~~~~~I            A 0 
S! -3            03 Od                                                        REMAEK-5~~~~~~~~~~~~imqft
A B AB ABIA BAB A BA            B A BAB ABA      BA BA BA BA B ABA BABIA BA B                   A      B_
4A. School of Physics
and MAtha.      1 1 512 55 59 1 - 1 - 2 - 8 4 8 4 16 61516 8 41 4 6 4 ---------------103.500                         116,890 +1_3 Includes C2tral
faciUltica
4B. SChool of Chemical
SCi encea       1136 46 54 3 3-2 22 66        61612 44 39 39203378 4 4-           -------------12D,570               125,810+ 4
4C. School of Bio-                                                                                              ) 96.715  102,990   AcademIc and can.
logicaliSciences  1 1 22 23351 3 2 - - 2 2 3 6 12 9 24 1i92214 1121 21 8 4 -)-----ll ----1,800                        9,504      Outdoor buliAings.
20.000  23         Marine field statio
128,515  13s,83o + 5
~4D. School of Phariea-) 8o
& ceutical and   ZIA 2   - n0* 55 na - na& - 0a 2 0a 6 na  0a -  18 8a na  n 13 -)--  i--8.2--7o-- 
'4E . Applied Sciences                                                                                           66,270  il2    5
4F. Lecture Theatre
end LActure-1-------                               -------I-             - ---12 12 10 20 30 -    ------50.250        5D,525  -  10 lecture theetreog
ROOMS                                                                                                                               125 stuidents.
2 lecture theetre5:
350 sftudmast.
4G. Computer Centre
and Central---------------S                                                         - 7-- --------13.18                -         Computer cantre
Facilities                                                                                                    1-              -  instaLled in
Y.-5-ciff    ~existing buildinkg.
Central facillties
included iL School
of Physics A math's.
4H. Library-------------                                                   2 16 -1--,80--            0 E    T 14 125.385  125,35,0  -
TOt.a 1658.496  693,135 45.2
Note- A - Appraisal Estimate
B - Built Area 



S ,11ARY OF ESTIMA1E AND ACTUAL CAPITAL EWEIDIUBE
(in pllaeian $ OOO.)
C'onstruction & Site Development       Furniture & Equilpent              Profeeaional Servles                   Total Costs
Appraisal                         Appraisal                          Appraisal                         Appraisal                          i
Estimate      Actual      f.       Estimate      AculEstimate                      Actual              Estimate       Ata 
Exclud     Includ.  costs   dif2%  E       Includ    Costs    d       x Eclud  Includ   Co st                                        f df.ff  Exclud  Incflud  cots  diff.  of
Exciud.  Includ.  C  23oats                                                              d 110iff  gld    notd      Ot     15-111   Tha
Conting. Coiting.                  CantIng  Conting_                 Contlng  Continx,   _             Conti    Conting.
1        2                b3  1   5        6        7        8       9        10       11     12       13       14       15      16
1. Educational Development Centre  1.701    2,126    3,172    +.'9      695     8U1      80e     - 5      -        -        -       -     2,386    2,970    3,976     .36      5
2. Educational Television EMS        605      756      -        -     1,250   5,961    3,991     -33       85      106       27     -74    4,194o  6,823    b,018     -1l      5
3. Secondary Vocational Schools
A. Taiping    (Perak)t          1,706   2,133    2,632     +23    1,ee5    1.3119  1,611     +19                    -                  2,791    3,1b82   1,2b3    *22
B. Kluang     (Johore)         1.79b    2,2242   1,681     -25    1,096    1,362   1,598     +17      -                                2,890    3,60d    3,279    - 9
C. Klang      (Selanaor)       1,618    2,023    2,618     *31   1i,76     1, 338  1,603     +20      -                                2,694    3,361    4,251    *26
D. Teerloh    (Peharg'         1,88b    2,355    2,263     - b    1,107   1,375    1,577     +15      -        -        -             2,991    3,730    3,810     + 3     32
E. Situ       (Sarawa'.)       1,341    1,676      913     -45      808    1,00oo    729     -27      -                                2,149    2,680   1,642     -39
F. Miri      (Sarawak '        1.355    1,691    1,570     - 7      781     976      822     -16      -                                2,139    2,670   2,392     -10                   I
0. Ttdaa      1Sabsbh)         2, 12b   2,655    1,961     -26    1,102    1,369     424     -69                    -                  3,226    4,024   2,388     -U0                   00
Secondary Technical Schools
H. Trengganu (K. Tregganu)     1,406    1,762    2,585     +47      739     917      316     -62      -                          _     2.145    2,679    2,931    + 9
b. University of Penang
A. 3chool of Phystes & Maths
School of Applied Sclence   b 809    6,014   6,899     +15    5,100    6.351    1,101     -35      673     8bl    1,108     +32   10,582   13,206   12,108     - 8
Central I'.ellities
B   School of Biological Sc.  6,ve5     7,b82   10,408     *39    3,P2b    b,751   3,581     -32      838    1,08     1,432    .36    10,6b7   13.281  15.,42     +16
Computer Centre                                 32                             See A                              See A                                 32
D. Library
Auditorium                 15,166   6,P32    7,980     +17    b1,05    5,029    4,256     -15      766     958    1,231     *29   10,277   12,019   13,470     + 5
Lecture Theatres                                                                                                                     5
E. Residential Hell            2,740    3.125    2,5R3     -21      124      516   See D              381      b80      38P     -19    3,5b8    4,b21    2,971     33
F. Master Plan & Site Develp     405       06-                                                        130      163       63     -61      535      669      63     -90
0. Centre for Ed. Se-vices       -        -        -        -       'P0                                                                           475 777 +6 -   -  380  115  778  *64  X
| tel                31,939   43,6678  47,330    + 8   26,505   33.617  26.224     -22     30 o76  3,596    4,252     +18   6b,320   8o,891   77,806    -4     100



COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF PLANNED AND BUILT AREAS
C0T PER SQUARE BCOOT AND COST PER SUDENT PLACE l
Cost Per Student Placei"(US$)
Gross Area          Cost per sq.ft.
in sq.ft.              in US$               Civil Works        Furniture and equipment        Total
Appraisal    Actual    Appraisal  Actual     Appraisal    Actual     Appraisal    Actual     Appraisal   Actual
73,965      95,ll                11.8
Vocational Schools
Peninsula           522,740     599,180     6.o       5.5          1,o78      1,136         668         786       1,746      1,922
East Malaysia       226,380     256,000     9.4       6.1          1,810      1,336       1,006         593       2,816      1,929
University Sains,
Malaysia
School of Physics)
and Maths.     )
School of Applied)
Science            134,990     218,120    15.8      11.2          1,480      1,699       1,564       1,010       3,044      2,709
School of Pharm. )
Science,       )
Central Faci-
lities        )
School of        )
Chemical Science     255,445     252,136    10.4      14.6          2,211      3,075       1,404       1,059       3,615      4,134
School of Bio-
logical Science
/ Contingencies included and professional fees not included.



Annex VI/3                           -70-
SCHEDUIE OF DISBURSEMENTS
LOAN 810-MA
(In US$ millions)
Actual
IBHRD/IDA                      Actual                        disbursement
Fiscal Year                    Total            Appraisal     as a % of
& Semester                 Disbursements         Estimate         mate
1973
1st                                                 0.1
2nd                                                 0.6
1974
1st                                                 1.7
2nd                                                 3.6
13M
ist                             o.6                 5.2          12.0
2nd                             1.4                 7.2          19.0
1976
1st                             2.3                 9.7          24.0
2nd                             2.8                13.5          21.0
1977
1st                             3.3                14.9          22.0
2nd                             4.1                15.5          26.0
1978
lst                             5.4                15.5          35.0
2nd                             8.0                15.5          52.0
1979
lt                            10.6                15.5          68.0
2nd                            11.7                              79.0
1980
lst                            13.4                              86.o
2nd                            14.3                              92.0
1981
let                            14.9                              96.0
2nd                            15.5                             100.0



RECURRENTr EXPENDITURE FOR TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS
(in M$)
Number    Number       Recurrent Expenditure     Trairning
School            N   b     N   b       of        of       (Excluding Hostel Expenses)  Cost per
Students   Classes Teachiing   Office                                 Student
Staff     Staff   Salaries    Other     Total
1. Vocational School,      632        18        57        27     517,580    75,840   593,420     939
1(ang
2. Vocational School,      622        18        50        29     620,300    74,800   695,100    1,117
Kluang
3. Vocational School,      574        i8        47        27     548,950    87,156   636,106    1,108
Temerloh
4. Technical School,       667        20        40        31     690,870    179,000  760,170    1,140
Kuala Treriggan
Source:  School Records for 1981.
Note:    The total recurrent expenses in 1980 of the Department of Technical and Vocational
Education for all schools under its control were:
(a)  Technical Schools:  M$  7,434,207 for 6,196 students   - Av. Cost/student = M$ 1,200
(b)  Vocational Schools: M$ 13,008,_381 for 11,204 students  - Av. Cost/student = M$ 1,161



ORGANIZATION OF ADMINISTRATION
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Dep,uty Drecto|           D| uty                                 Det Scra               Deputy tary
Genere I                  Ganere a                                eea                    Generel U
I  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.
D|rector  Deector  D irputs r D irectr | O|etor   Dirctor  o   Dep irector  o  D   v   D  
Dwactor  Dimctm  11 Director  Da,ectort eg                   Scretar  secretary  Secrtary  Secretary  Secretary
Schoota  Educational  Teciwilcal &  E~.~utIOn  Chief RegistrarText Booenek   Highe a- 
I=                                              Education GnidctoI t  e r  D   Di vIefot
T   tetren .& orne t loe                                          consEuain             ~     DVsC
Dlvts.onReearch Divi Con m  DhnvWon
Stato Diro"on  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~uam oermetOvwrsee Studen
of Ed."d                            Deprttant



ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF CDC (19811
Director
I                                                      I
Deputy Director                                        Deputy Director
Senior Organizer'  Senior Organizer'  Senior Organizer"  Seior Organizer'*  Senior Organizer',  Seior Organizer'
RESEARCH          TRAINING       ADMINISTRATION      CURRICULUM:        CURRICULUM:        CURRICULUM:
AND EVALUATION   AND MEDIASERVICES                        PRIMARY          SECONDARY.           LANGUAGE
0 )   Q        .\ t                10            '         t0CD                      || 0 'E
SD I SDI  6D      D      i1E              c.      51    7I7D        D    D     D    D     D    D     D
A.D.~~ A Tl     Ancilar A4D                                   A.0.lr     A.D.l ACD2            A.D.2 A1/C2
9c C2  Staff Staff  St2
CL~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~lEuao Crfce (Dvo                  2   , - HSC
C2-Eurto Ofcr Dvn3- ECE                          -
C                      I L.                         IH~
Di                   1~~~~ E.
5Di  ~D1 601 41          I101          1Eac.         501  7D01  7 DI  7D1  701  8D1   4D1  4Di 80DI   201
10D2      15   4 C2           l Ex. Off.    12   15    1                    1 iC             6 C2
1 TI    Ancillary 4 Ancillary  + 75 Ancil.  C/2  CI/C2 C1IC2
9 C2      Staf f Staff       Staff
9 technicians
4 lab. assistants
Principal Assistant Director            Key: DI - Education Officer (Division I - Timne Scale Officer) honours grad.. Poesoa
AD: Assistant Director                       D2- Education Officer (Division II -Time Scale Officer) pass degree  Poesoa
TI - Education Officer (Techinical - Diploma level)
CI - Education Officer (Division 2 - H-SC)
C2 - Education Officer (Division 3 - MCE)
Ao



Annex VII/3                          -74-
PARTICIPANTS IN IN-SERVICE C0TRSES 1979
CDC In-Service Courses      In-Service
for Key Personnel          Trvice
Primary  Secondary Total      Courses
Primary Mathematics             98        -        98       2,205
and Science
Secondary Mathematios           -        28        28         259
Secondary Science               -        29        29          _
Bahasa Malaysia                 &       127       209       3,183
English                         52      115       167       2,450
History                        146       44       190       7,495
TOTAL              378      343       721      15,592 v
Note: - At CDC the training of KP is organized in groups usually of
30-40 persons, and there may be several groups at a time.
- Organized during week-ends and vacations.
/ Covers both primary Lnd secondary levels.



- 75 -
Amex VI/*
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL STUDIES
CAPACTTY'-ENRO0Un1'S-TEACHING STAFF: CCMPARISON BETWEEN
APPRATSAL TARGETS AND NUMBES IN 1981
Student Places                  Hostel
School              Tndastrial         Commerce                         Teaching
Trades                            Capa-    Resi-     Staff
Capa-   Enrol-     Capa-   Enrol-    city     dents
city    ments      eity    ments
1. Vocational School,      480     479       i60      153       504      450      57
Klanig                 (560)             (160)              (540)             (42)
2. Vocational School,      480     472       160      150       504      4183     50
Kluang                 (560)             (160)              (540)             (42)
3. Vorational School,      480     474        150     150       504      484      45
Taiping 1/             (560)             (160)              (540)             (42)
4. Vocational School,      480     430       160      144       504      454      47
Temerloh               (560)             (150)              (540)             (42)
5. Vocational School,      250     123/       60      50        164      150      22
Miri                   (240)              (60)              (180)             (25)
6. Vocational School,      408     192        100      84       100       72      32
Sibu 2/                (300)              (60)              (180)             (31)
7. Voce.tton il School,    420      ?         40       ?        304       ?        ?
Tawau 4/               (360)              (40)              (300)             (28)
8. Technical School,       480     484        i60     183       528      471      40
Kuala Trengganu        (480)             (160)              (280)             (23)
Total Student Places (Appraisal)                   : (4J580) and (3,100) Hostel
Total Student Places, 1981 (excluding Tawau)       : 4,018   and  3,112  Hostel
Total Enrolment, 1981 (excluding Tawau)            : 3,568   and  2,564 Boarders
Student Place/Staff Ratio (1981)     4: 08        =   1i4:1
293 
Students Enrolled/Staff Ratio         :L 568          12:1
293
Source:  Information supplied by School Principles.
Figures in (-) obtained from Project Appraisal Report.
Notes:   1/  Obtained from Preliminary Project Completion Report, Kuala Lumpur, 1980.
2/  Students attending 6-month courses under Bintulu Project.
7) The school can also accept up to 120 students for Navigation and Marine
Fngineering up-grading courses.
4/ The school of Tawau enrolled its first few students in April 1981.
(It will take two more years to reach full capacity).



- 76 -
Annex VII/5
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
TM CURRTCUUTM STRUCTRE
Time Allocation in      Vocational Schools        Technical Schools
periods per
week    Commercial   Ind. Trades  Commercial Technical
Subjects   Classes       Classes     Classes    Classes
A. Academic Subjects
1. Malay Language                5             2          5           5
2.  English Language             5             2           5           5
3. Islamic Studies and/or        2             2           8           5
Sof,ial Studies
4. Mathematics                   3             3           5           9
5. Science                       3             3           5           9
(39X)         (24%)       (<7%)       (79%)
B. Professional Subjects
6. Commercial English            4             _           _
7. Commercial Mathematics        2             _           4
8. Commerocal Practices          4             _           5
9. Typing                (22%)--I0             _           _
10.  Book-keeping or
Shorthand
11.  Principles of Accounts       _             _          5
12.  Technical Drawing            _             4           _          4
13.  Related Technology           _             9           _          2
Practice    s                             25--(50%)    -           3--(7%)
(61%)         (765%)       3%)        (21%)
Totals                          46            50          42          42
Source:  Principals of the schools visited.
Note:    1 period = 40 minutes.
Duration of School Year = 40 weeks.



- 77 -
Annex VII/6
VOCATIONAL AND TECHNOICAL SCHOOLS
ENROOIMENTS AND NUMERS CT TEACHERS BY QUALIFICATION
Teachers by qualifications
|~~~~0a                   0 o°       0'I I0ow
S a h o o 1          4o     e4         0 1   1 .O M       1<0 
>   r-I       es   14                 0~~~I  40
.PV2      0 0. ,-'a
1. Vocational School    632       -           13           42          2           57
at Klang
2. Vocational School    622       1            3           46          -           50
at Kluang
3. Vocational School    574       2           16           29          _           47
at Taenrlon
4. Vocational School    163       -           -            22          -           22
at Miri
5. Vocational School    276       -           -            22         7            29
at Sibu
6. Technical School     667      27            9            4          -           40
at Kuala Trengganu
Source: School Records for 1981.
(.) Trainees are following the 6-month accelerated training courses under
the Bintulu Project.



Annex VII/7                            - 78 -
VOCATIONAL AND TECHICAL SCHOOLS
SUCCESS AND FAILURE RATES IN NATIONAL EXAMINATIONS
Performance Rates
S c h o o 1 s            Grades    Grade     Grade          Examinations
1-3/       4gl/       x   /
1. Vocational School,          45         7          48
Klang
2. Vocational School,           41        10         49        VMolaysia
Temierloh                                                   Certificate"
3. Vocational School,           30                              Exa(ninations
Sibu                                                          (SPVM)
4. Vocational School,           54       15          31
Kluang
5. Technical School,            97        _                     Certificate
Kuala Trengganu                                             of Education"
Examinations
(SPM4)
Source: School Records for 1980.
Notes:  1  Grades 1-3 : Pass in all subjects.
/ Grade 4     : Pass in Trade Subjects.
/ Grade x     : Failed.
/ Analysis of passes in Industrial Trades Courses
(viz. excluding Commerce)
Grade 1    : 1/185  =  0.5%
Grade 2    : 30/185 = 16.0%
Grade 3    : 34/185 = 18.0%
Grade 4    : 23/185 = 12.0%



- 79 -
Annex VII/8
p. 1
THE UNIVERSITI SAINS MALAYSIA (USM)
OBJECTIVES, CHARACTERISTICS AND STRUCTURE
The Universiti Sains Malaysia (formerly known as the University
of Penang) was established in 1969, being provisionally aceommodated
in the Malayan Teachers' Training College, Gelugor, Penang. In 1971,
USM acquired its permanent campus at Miden Barracks, Gelugor, a former
military facility.
By 1970, USM had established the following six schools:
(i)     School of Biological Sciences
(ii)    School of Chemical Sciences
(iii)   School of Physics and Mathematics (now two separate Schools)
(iv)    School of Humanities (formerly known as School of
Cultural and Community Studies)
(v)     School of Comparative Social Sciences
(vi)    Centre for Educational Services (now known as School of
Educational Studies).
In 1972-74, the following additional Schools and a Centre were
established:
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences
School of Applied Sciences (Electronic Science and
Technology, Food Science and Technology, Mineral Science
and Technology, Polymer Science and Technology
School of Housing, Building and Planning
Centre for Policy Research
A School for Medical Sciences will be established, the first intake )f
students being in 1981.
USM's overall educational objectives may be inferrei fr-m 'he
following paragraph taken from Chapter C of the Registrar's Repo-t f)r
the Fourth Malaysia Plan:
"At the time of its establishment the University, w!hile
respecting the past and yet remaining alive to the hligher
educational needs at that time, aimed at supplemcmUnrg and
complementing higher education facilities available in the
country and to concern Itself with the development of
1/ Source:   The materials in this annex are extracted frov-
a) the locally produced PCR Second Eiucatlon rt'oject,
Malaysian World Bank Loan 810-MA, Final Report.
Kuala Lumpur, November 1980;
b) Universiti Sains Malaysia, The First Ten Years 1969-1979.
Edited by Professor Sharom Ahmat, USM, Pulau Pinang,
1979.



- 80 -
Annex VII,A
p. 2
teaching, research and service programmes which would directly
contribute to producing graduates who could readily assist
the Government in its development objectives. It also aimed
at developing a personality and an identity of its own that
is compatible with and suited to the region in which it is
looated. The University from the onset was conscious of the
need to provide a balance in its courses and account had
to be taken of fields of study already available, and, since
funds for higher education are not limitless, the University
would not duplicate courses without.very convincing reasons.
Stress would however be placed on courses in science and
technology, with vocational and practical training playing
an important part in its curriculum."
Among the development strategies adopted to achieve USM's overall
educational objectives were:
"(a) to accommodate its fundamental academic objectives through
the establishment of a School System within which the horizontal and
vertical integration of the traditional academic disciplines and
inter-disciplinary and other innovative approaches to teaching could
be accommodated...;
(b) to increase student enrolment, including post-graduate
students, to reach a total student population of 5,000 students by
1980, and to maintain a science:arts ratio of 60:40 per cent in its
student population;
(c) to offer part-time degree courses to mature men and women
through the Off-Campus Study Programme in an attempt to enhance the
development of potential manpower resources available in the working
public...;
(d) to develop Bahasa Malaysia as the main medium of instruction
in the University with English as an effective second language, in
conformance with the national language policy;
(e) to create a campus with an environment and facilities to
enhance the operational and academic objectives of the UniversiLy while
at the same time providing the maximum social interaction between all
sectors of the University community."
This young University has a number of innovative features, such as
the School System, the Off-Campus Programme, the matriculation classes,
the Residential system, the academic year structure, the B.Sc. with Education
and the B.Sc. degree programmes.
The School System
In the area of teaching-learning effectiiveness, the University
decided from the outset that it should seek alternatives to the
traditional organization based Qn the faculty with its multi-departmental
set-up. Since the organization of courses at the University is based
on the concept that knowledge is indivisible, it became the first national
institution to operate Schools of Study as the chief academic units.



- 81 -
Annex VII/8
p. 
Although the operation of a School system in Malaysia is still very
new, the experience of this University suggests that such a structure
is flexible and positive. The system allows for the teaching of
related subjects under a single administration with more judicious
use of equipment and funds and, with related subjects grouped into
Schools of Study, students are able to follow integrated and balanced
courses. Furthermore, the system allows for a certain degree of
specialization in a chosen field of study while at the same time
encouraging and enabling interdisciplinary studies in related fields.
Likewise in research the School system enables greater cooperation
among staff of different disciplines and the sharing of common facilities
and equipment.
As an example, the School of Pharmaceutical Studies and the School
of Applied Sciences are the only ones of their kind in the country, and
both of these include vocational and practical training in their
curriculum. "During the long vacation at the end of Year 2 and again at
the end of Year 3, every student attends, as an integral part of the
B.App.Sc. programme, an Industrial Training Course which is a seven-week
period of carefully planned and supervised attachment in some local
industry or establishment relevant to his chosen specialization."
Similarly, Pharmacy Practice and Clinical Pharmacy reflect vocational and
practical training aspects of the B.Pharm. programme.
Off-Campus Programme
The University, being conscious of its social obligations and Its
responsibility for the intellectual development of society, has introduced
an innovative programme of off-campus education. The objective of the
programme is to provide adults above the age of twenty-three and in
full-time employment with the opportunity to pursue a university education.
This programme lasts for a period of a minimum of four years off-campus
and one year on-campus. During these years off-campus students are
brought in for two or three,weeks a year to undergo intensive tutorials,
lectures and instruction on-campus. During the rest of the year, they
follow courses by correspondence and attend practical courses at the
various regional centres established in the country.
One of the objectives of this programme is to provide opportunities
to members of the society who come from disadvantaged backgrounds, so as to
eliminate some of the imbalances which now exist. It has the impact of
upgrading the skills and knowledge of working adults; in particular, one
advantage of this programme is that most of the candidates are school
teachers. This will result in an increase of science graduate teachers,
who are badly needed in the country. This programme also has implicitions
for on-campus teaching as the staff members who are involved in teaching
off-campus students are the same as those who are giving on-campus courses.
They gain experience in distance teaching and of the various materials which
are made available for those students who require c]oser attention.
Another advantage is that several university facilLties, particularly the
teaching laboratories, as well as the various hostels, can be more fully
utilised by being made available for the intensive courses for off-
campus students.



- 82 -
Annex VII/8
p. 4
The enrolment and graduate output of the Off-Campus Programme are
shown below.
Enrolment
71/72 72/73 73/74 74/75 75/76 76/77 77/78 78/79 79/80    Total
Foundation
Sciences        -     -     -     -     -     -      -     ,8    -     38
Science          -     -    27     40    81    88    68     55   8o    439
Humanities     48      66   69     71    83    74    71     61   57    600
Social
Sciences      41      65   85     81    86    70    67     52   59    606
Total          89     131  181    192   250   232   206    206  196   1683
Graduate Output
1976         1977         1978      1979      Total
B.Sc.             -           14          17         19        50
B.A.(Hum.)      56            64          59         61       240
B.Soc.Sc.        48           67          51         60       226
Total          104           145         127        140       516
Source:  (a)  USM - The First Ten Years 1969-1979, page 38.
(b) Registrar, USM.
Matriculation classes
Another important development has been the introduction of the
matriculation programme. This was originally started as the Preliminary
Science programme which took in stuidents who did not have the necessary
qualifications to enter the first year. It was to be regarded as a
remedial course particularly for Bumiputra students so that they would
be prepared for first-year instruction.   This programme has been started
in order to give a better opportunity to disadvantaged students to
succeed in getting admission to the University, and also to try tD ensure
that they get an even chance to graduate. The programme has now evolved
into the matriculation programme which is run over a period of two
years. Students with five science subjects at the MCE level and a
sufficient credit average are taken into selected science schools in
Northern Peninsular Malaysia. After their training for one year in these
schools with some supervision from the University they then enter into
their second year of matriculation in the University where courses are
conducted by lecturers of the University.



- 83 -
Annex VII/8
P. 5
The enrolment and output figures are:
_____   71/72 72/73 73/74 74/75 75/76 76/77 77/78 78/79 79/80   Total
Enrolment       2)      25     19    24    64    92   137   172   216   223    995
Number
Successful      19      22     17    20    58    85   120   148   181   218    888
Source: Registrar, USM.
i/ Known as pre-science classes in 1970/71.
The Residential system
The design for student accommodation in the USM campus is based on
a system of student residential villages or desasiswa where rooms are
rented at nominal rates to the students by the University on a tenant-
landlord basis. Meals and laundry services, though available in the
campus, are not provided as an integral part of the accommodation
system. Instead, the system is designed to encourage the students to
budget their own finances. The University has set itself a target to
provide accommodation on campus for 75 per cent of its full-time student
population at any one time. Current residential capacity is estimated
to be about 71 per cent.
The Academic Year Structure
The academic year structure was revised in 1975 and the former
three-tenm arrangement was discarded. In 1976, a new two-term unit system
was introduced, the academic year being divided into two terms of 18 weeks
each. Under this new system, courses are offered on a term-to-term
basis with examinations at the end of each term. Students are not
therefore classified as belonging to any year of study but read courses in
a progressive manner, from level 100 courses to level 400 courses. In
1978, a further modification was made to the undergraduate degree programme.
The existing three-year courses in the natural sciences, humanities and
social sciences were extended to four years. The term was renamed a
semester and students were given year-equivalence classifications in
accordance with the credit units earned. In 1979, a Board of Studies was
set up by the University Senate to study and make recommendations on the
establishment of a General Studies Programme for the session of 1980/81.
Bachelor of Science with Education and Science degree courses
Tne concurrent course of Bachelor of Science with Education is
a departure from the more traditional pattern of providing a diploma in
education for science graduates with a first degree in science. It
involves all the four Natural Science Schools, the School of Education
and the Language Unit. A similar concurrent course leading to the
degree of Bachelor of Arts with Education draws on the School of
Humanities in place of the natural science schools. There are important



- 84 -
Annex VIIM/
p. 6
differences between these concurrent courses and the more traditional
ones. The concurrent Bachelor of Science with Education course lasts
for four years and throughout this period an education component is
introduced, while two science subjects and mathematics are being studied.
Thus, the graduates from this course are normally versed in two science
subjects as well as in mathematics. During the long vacation, the students
are given practical training and they have three such training courses
during their undergraduate period. Thus they are exposed to and are
trained in practical teaching over a much longer period of time. Further,
with the university policy of requiring all graduates to attain a certain
level of proficiency in Bahasa Malaysia, these graduates are not only
versed in their science disciplines and mathematics, but are also able to
teach in Bahasa Malaysia.
An innovation in the science degree programme is the introduction
of the double major in science, which enables students to read two of the
four science disciplines (biology, chemistry, physics and mathematics)
throughout the undergraduate course, giving equal emphasis to both
subjects. The traditional single subject course, similar to that in other
universities, is available but with a difference, in that the students
have the opportunity to read some courses in the humaniti-s and social
sciences, such as management problems and processes, economics, accounting,
etc. This arrangement is very much facilitated by the School system. The
graduates from the double ,aajor programme, while broad-based in science,
are better prepared in the areas of production, quality controa., marketing
and sales in Industry, as well as in research and development and in
service activities of the private and public sectors, where a multi-
disciplinary approach to problems is essential.



- 85 -                        ANNEX VII/9
Page
MALAYSIA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 810-MA)
USM
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE COURSE
REQUIREMENTS
Alternative A: 1 Major
Science I                                                   80 units*
Science II/III or IV                                         16  "
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                         12   '
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                         0-8   "
English Language                                           2-10  "
Option                                                      -%
Minimum      142 units
Alternative B: Double Major
Science I                                                   48 units
Science II/III or IV                                        48
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                         12
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                            2
English Language                                           0-8
Option                                                    2-10
Minimum      120 units
Alternative C: General Studies Program
Science I                                                    62 units
Science II/III or IV                                        16
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                         12
Minor (chosen from 14 minors available
from the entire university)                            20-24
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                            2
English Language/Option                                    8-8
Mininmum     120 units
* 1 unit = 14 hours of contact (or 28 for laboratory/workshop).



- 86 -                          ANNEX VII/9
Page 2
USM
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE COURSE
REQUIREMENTS (Honors)
Alternative A: 2 Majors
Science I                                                    40 units
Science If                                                   40
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                          12  "
Education /1                                                48
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                            2  "
English Language                                            2-8  "
Minimum      142 units
Alternative B: 1 Major
Science 1                                                 60-62 units
Science II (as minor)                                     20-24
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                          12
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                         2-8
English Language                                           0-8
Education /1                                                48
Minimum      142 units
Alternative C; General Studies
Science I                                                 60-62 units
Minor (one to select one field in the
offerings of General Studies)                           20-24
Service Mathematics or Science Il/III or IV                  12
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                            2
English Language                                           0-8
Education /1                                                 48
Mininmum     142 units
/1 Including practice teaching for a total of 16 weeks.



U.S.N.
FIRST DEGREE OUTPUT, 1972-1979
Year          1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977       1978        1979        Total
B. Sc./                     39          39          55         413         74 (15)    110 (25)    74 (20)     77 (20)    511 (80)
B. Sc. with Ed.             -           -           20          84         74         141        137          79         535
B. Pharm.                   -           -           -           17         31          36         39          36         159
B. App. Sc.                 _     -           -                 -          31          38         39          11         119
B. Sc. (HEP)                -           -           -           -          22          24         33          41         120
Sub-Total (1)               39          39          75         144        232         349        322         244       1,444
B.A.                        -           40          96         128        117         172        167         158         878
B.A. with Ed.               -           -           -           -          -           52         42          47         141
B. Soc. Sc.                 _           75         127         122        164         202        203          182      1,075
Sub-Total (2)               -          115         233         250        281         426         412         387      2,094
Total (1) + (2)             39         154         298         394        513         775        734         631       3,538
(1) as % of Total          100%         25%         25%         37%        45%         45%        44%         39%          41%
Off Campus                                                               (104)       (145)       (127)       (14o)
(included in Total)                                                      (   )11171
Source:   1972-1975:   Jniversiti Sains Malaysia - The First Ten Years, 1969-1979.
1976-1979:   Registrar 'Jniversiti Sains rZalaysia.
Note:     1/  OutpL- of Sc. graduates majoring in computer science is indicated parenthesis.
0



9TUEET AEISSTC, 1969170 TO l979^0 
1969_   1970/Tl 197T1/2 1972    l9/74 19T47*5 1975/16 1976m      19T7/78 1978/79 1979/)    -btal
Matrioulation                 -       23      25       19      24      68      91     13*      17T     203     244      985
Science                              57      69      174A1   226/    303/    33B-/    81      128     136     154     150     1,816
Science (Education)                  -       -       _        2/      -       -       72       95     122     153     156       598
Applied Sciences                     _       _       _        -       2/      _       -        37      30      *4      49       160
Pharm. Scienoes                      _       _       _         /      -       -       -        52      52      51      50       205
Housing, Building * Planning                 _        _       -       31      55      20       50      50      42      48       296
Sub-T¶tal (1)                        57      69      174     226     334     393     173      362     390     "4      453     3,075
Humanities                           -       45      101     120     136      93      87       86      80      83      86       917
Humanities (Education)               -       -        -       -       -       57       54      53      59      60       59       *2       x
Social Sciences                      -       79      132     124     135     148     137      149     116     129     101     1,250       x
Sub-Total (2)                        -      124      233     244     271     298      278     288     255     272     246     2,509
Total  (1) + (2)                     57     193     407      470     605     691     451      650     645     716     699     5,584
(1)  as % of Total                  100%     36%     43%      48%     55%     57%     38%     56%      61%     62%     65%      55%
Off Campus
(Science, Humanities,                -       -       89      131     181     192     250      232     206     206     196     1,683
Social Sciences)
Source:  1969-1975: Universiti Sains Malaysia - The First Ten Years, 1969-1979.
1976-1979:  Registrar, Universiti Sains Malaysia.
Notes:   1/ Including of Educatiom students.
2/ Starting year of courae.



U.S.M.
kFmDIME#T AND OUTPUT OF HICHE DEGREE STUDENT
Masters Degree                                   Ph. D.
1975/76 1976/7  1977/7   1978/79 1979/8 Total 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 197879 1979/80 Tota
R   G   R    O  R    G   R   G   R   G   G    R   G    R   G   RG     R    G   R   G   G
Pharmacy                             -     -   -   -   -   -    -  2  1   1    _   _    1
Physics                               1  -  1    1   1   1   1   2      _ 4.1 -                           _   1-       1
Applied Scienoes                 _   1   5   -   1    -   6   1   1   -   2    _        1     _    _    1      _   _   _
Biology                          6   2   2   6   2    1   2   -   4   2  11    3   -   -    1   3       1  -    1   2   3
Chemistry                        4   1   5   7   -    1   3   2   -   -  11    3   -    1   -   1   2   -   -    1   1   3
Mathematics                      -   -   5   -    2   1   -   1   1   -    2    -   -    -  -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Housing, Building and Plannin    8   7  11    5   8  11   8   9   6   5  37                              -   -    -  -    - _
Sub-Total                       19  12  28   19  14  15  20  14  16   8  68     6       3 1     4   3   2        3   3   7
Humanities                      11   3   6   -    4   3   2   2   6   3   11    1   _     _    _   _
Social Science                  13   2  11    3   6   4   6   7   5. 1    17    -  -    1   -   3   _
Education                       16   -  12   -    -   1   -   1   2   2   4     -   -   -    -    -  -    -  -
Sub-Total                       40   5 29     3  10   8  8 10    13    6  32    1       1   -   3   -   -   _
Total                           59  17  57   22 24   2328    24  29  14 100     7       4   1   7   3   2   -    3   3   7
Source:  Registrar, "niversiti Sains Malaysia                                     172| 97*/4           1974/75
R = Number registered (Annual Intake)                                  M. Sc.        1         2          3
G =  Number graduated                                                 ?.A.           -         -          1                     H
f   o. Soc. Sc.  -       1         3
. Sc.(HBP'1   -          -         5



- 90 -
Annex VII/13
USM: CAPACflY, ENRO0ENT & TEACHITG STAFF
Table I
Comparison between appraisal estimates (A) and situation by 1Q79 (B)
Student        Enrolments      Teaching Staff
Places (A)        (B)I/          (A)       (B)
School of Physics/Mathematics        1,100                          100       59
School of Chemistry                    800           568             75       40
School of Biology                      400                           40       43
School of Applied Sciences             250           160             20       22
School of Pharmacy                      90           205              9       15
Computer Centre and Central             -             -              -         3
Facilities                  /
Centre for Educat. Service             500           526             4C0      25
Notes: 2 Data are estimates based on enrolments over the years 1976/77 to 1979/A3.
Annex 7 of Appraisal Report, March, 1972.
/ Now School of Educational Studies.
Table 2
Full-time Teaching Staff - Malaysian and External
1973         1976        1977        1978        1979
M      E      M     E     M     E      M     E    M      E
Physios               14    15     18    14    18    16     18    12   21      8
Mathematics            6     1     18     7    18     7     18     8   21      9
(Computer Centre)       -     -      -     -     -     -      2     -    2      1
Chemistry             16    13     25    16    26    13     30    11   31      9
Biology               14     3     35    10    37     9     36     9   38      5
Applied Scienee                     9    10    11    11     13     9   13      9
Pharmacy                            9     3    11     1     11     2   12      3
Education             13     3     22     3    22     2     26     0   25      0
Housing, Building      -     6      5    20     6    18      7    17    9     18
end Planming
Total                 63    41    141    83   149    77    161    68  172     62
Percentage            61%   39%    63%   37%   66%   34%    70%   30,' 74%    26%
Source: Registrar, Universiti Sains Malaysia.
M = Malaysian
E = External



- 91 -
Annex VII/14
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE COMPUTER SYSTEM IN THE
USM COMPUTER CENTRE X
System 370/135 was installed in 1975 and in 1978, using local
funds.  The University purchased IEM system 370/148 to enhance the
configuration. In 1979 the system 370/148 was upgraded to 2 megabytes
of real storage. The present computer system is supported by the
following types of hardware:
1 Model 3203 fast printer (1100 lpm)
I Card Punch
2 Card Readers
30 Model 3270 Video Display units (terminals)
6 Tape Drives
12 Disk storage devices with a total capacity of about
3000 megabytes
5 Diskettes (floppy disks) data entry stations
1 Optical Mark Reader
7 Card Punch MaQhines
1 Plotter/Digitizer
System operation consists of operating systems OS/VSI and VM/370 POS;
the following compklers are available: FORTRAN, ASSEMELER, PL/l, COBOL
and BASIC; the following software packages are also available: SPSS,
GPSS, SAS, MARK IV and IMS. The USM computer system has the capability
for multi-programming, time-sharing, demand and batch processing. Since
1981 the system operates a 24-hour service.
K  Other small systems exist In the School of MatI:ematie-.
K Otlier small systems exlst lin the School of' Mathematics.



- 92 -
Annex VII/C5
USM COMPUIER CENTRE: FUNCTIONS
1.     Teaching and Training
Teaching programmes include a variety of short-term courses for
USM staff, government auditors, outside librarians, etc., as well as
the B.Sc. programmes (Mathematics with specialization in Computer
Science)l/. The B.Sc. course from 1974/75 to 1977/78 was a three-year
one; from 1978/79 it is a four-year course. To obtain a B.Sc., a
student must pass in at least 120 units including 80 units for a single-
subject major or 48 units for a double-subject major, a unit being
14 hours of lectures/tutorials or their equivalent. In addition, the
students are required to spend about 8 weeks of the long vacation In the
second year of study carrying out a practical exercise in government and
private organisations. The School of Mathematical Sciences has 5 Ph.D.
and 2 M.Sc. lecturers with varied fields of specialization in computer
science. The School provides the majority of courses for the computer
science programme. It is estimated that this academic year 1980/81
about 700 students use the computer, of whom around 100 specialize in
Computer Science.
2.     Research covers mainly two categories:
(i)   research done by individual academic staff;
(ii) mostly application-oriented research, in the form of
large-scale projects, often in conjunction with other
university staff and outside agencies, including for
example:
(a) the development of a National Integrated Data System
for Malaysia (ProJect NIDAS);
(b) the development of Computerized Land Information
System for the State of Penang;
(c)  the Drug Abuse Project (a WHO-sponsored project):
(d) Land Ownership in the Muda Irrigation Area
(Project MADA);
(e) a study on the Long-term Computer Requirements of the
Port Authorities (Port Kelang Project);
(f) a study on the feasibility of creating a System of
Cooperative Processing using the MARC tapes (Project
MALMARC sponsored by Unesco).
1/ In addition to the B.Sc. (Mathematics with major subject Jn
Computer Science) programme, a similar B.Sc. programme (Applied
Sciences with major subject in Computer Science and Technology)
began in 1979.



- 93 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                              ATTACHMENT I
CANSELORI                                                (Page 1 of 4)
I,' \              UNIVERSITI SAINS MALAYSIA
i_ , _ .    Mfinden, Palau Pinang, Makysia.
Alamat Kawat UNISAINS                                     Telefon 883822 (20 tahan)
BOl Tuan
BaL. Kam,
15 January 1983
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street,
N.W., Washington
D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
REPORT PERFORMANCE REPORT ON MALAYSIA SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 810-MA)
Re. your letter to our Vice-Chancellor of 15 November 1982, with regards
to the above Report, the University had in fact sent its comments to the
Ministry of Education on 2 October 1981. Nonetheless, I shall be most
grateful if you will take into account the following observations, and
modify the Report accordingly.
1. p.ii item 4 Project Management
Please note that the MDU established at USM was only empowered to
oversee the implementation of the Project. It had no executive
authority whatsoever. Indeed even details of the Project had to
be referred to the Ministry of Education. As such, any delay was
not the responsibility of the MDU.
2. p 9 item 3.1(b)
This statement is incorrect. The MDU was not responsible for the
design of the campus plan nor the implementation of the Project.
The consultants were the responsible parties.
3. p 12 item 3.6(c)
(a) 4 mechanical engineers should read 4 electrical engineers.
(b) Reference to "reinforced concrete gutters" should be in the
School of Biological Sciences, not in the Residential Halls.
4. p 13 item 3.6(e)
Please delete reference to the construction of the airport-city highway.
This project did not exist then. Perhaps, this is meant to refer to
the Airport project.
...2/-



- 94 -                     ATTACHMENT I/Pg. 2 of 4
Mr. Shiv. S. Kapur                                                 15 January 1983
5.  p 19 item 4.17
83 acres should read 87 acres.
6.  pp 19-20 item 4.19, 4.22
(a) Master Side Plan should be Master Site Plan.
(b) The attribution of the 2 1/2 year delay to "the insufficient
expertise of the USM authorities in determining their real
educational needs, and the numerous amendments made ..." is
an extremely unfair statement.
In fact the major cause of delay was the devaluation of the
American dollar, and the requirements for changes in design
and scope asked for by the Bank Architects.
7.  p 20 item 4.20
4 mechanical engineers should be 4 electrical engineers.
8.  p 49 item 7.55(c)
Please rephrase this section to read:-
"the difficulties in obtaining student ethnic balance in the
Science stream".
9.  p 50 item 7.59
It is incorrect, to say the least, that the "general studies" program
was meant for the "benefit of the weaker students". This program
was introduced to provide an all round education, and to enhance the
flexibility of the USM academic system.
10.  p 51 item 7.63
Please change the word "trained" (line 1) to "assisted".
11.  Please replace Annex VIII/9 pp 1-2 with the enclosed.
I trust the above will help in the re-writing of the Report. May I also take
this opportunity to thank the World Bank for its assistance to USM during
the early years of our development.
Yours sincerely,
,., //r- _&'
PROFESSOR SHAROM AHMAT
Deputy Vice-Chancellor
(Research & Development)
c.c. Y.B. En. Musa Mohamad
Vice-Chancellor
SA/kbc



- 95 -
ATTACHMENT I
(Page 3 of 4)
Anllex ViII/9
p.l
L' S 'I
BACHELOR OF SCILNCE PROGRALM!
REQUIREMEN';TS
Alternative A: Single Major
ircnce I                                                  80 units*
,. ict   eII/III/ or IV                                    16 units
. olce rta.e'icsEet ....e...i...l.l....iv..lOp......       12 units
:' -.  alays i.. IV                                      2 units
. r ;' is'h LI'-.<,";'"2                                0- 3 units
2-10 units
:iiniium 1.20 units
2 -::Ia1ivC 3:   .,ouble Major
;, ::~'.~..~ 248 units
~; !e;_  iII.J! or IV                                    48 units
.. n sa ";il.;y1ia IV                                      u unitS
I ,;  h  f.  2;;cn, (c- 8 units
L .e o::                                            92-10 units
minimuz 120 units
.2 ter-na.i:e C:  ...;e era1 Studies ProgranIe
7 . t .. . .                                       62 units
:e: . 5 II. III/ or IV                                    16 units
'erl e >!ar:icmatics/Elcctive/0ption                        12 units
!1: r (c:w sen Irca 1 ' mi:rs aril2ab le                20-24 units
frc. tr  e onire Uni.crsiLi)
s           .a Z 1 a. i .a  L'                               2  ul its
Th !.n:2:. e: c/u ion)                              4- 8 units
r.inimu-.. 120 units
*  !  :nl.   14 l-"nurs of contact (or 23 for 1dboratury/workshop)



- 96 -
ATTACHMENT I
(Page 4 of 4)
Annex V!11/9
.9
S M1
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE WITH EDUCATION PROGRAV1ME
REQUIREMENTS Oiionour 5r)
Alternative A: 2 Maj6r
Science I                                                 40 units
Science II                                                40 units
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                       12 units
Educationl/                                               48 units
Bahasa Malaysia .V                                         2 units
En-lish Language                                        0- 8 units
m.inimum 142 units
Alternative B:   1 Major
s- ienr.c I                                            60-62 units
S,.nce II (as miinor)                                  20-2.'. 
4 rvi   MIathcma,ics/ eelivcti/e/Optjcn i' _n
mhasa Malaysia TV                                          2 units
,.nghish Language                                       0- 8 uniLs
t L_rk-                                          4_ .   mits
wwi-.':    142  m ni ts
Altcrn.ttive C:  General Studies Pro-raz-e
Scieone I                                              r,O-'52 units
''i:.¢ (to select ome fiuld in the     t.*c             '-2' ;.is
of General Studies)
: r-.i:e :athematics or Science l1/Il!/ cr i'             I2 un its
Sahdaa Ma'2.:sia IV                                       u' I.lt
~.n2ilsh I .dxaz. e                                    C'- 8 un-its
148) unit:;
-: ~Ir..ludi:: practice teach r. f( -          .. e':.



COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER          - 97
KEMENTERIAN KEWANGAN,                              ATTACHMENT II
KHAZANAH MALAYSIA,                                 (Page 1 of 9)
JALAN DUTA,                                        TeleJon 946066. 940011, 948111
y  7    ~KUALA LUMPUR
Telegram: TREASURY
Telex FEDTRY MA 30242
Rul Kamr 0.4392/200/Jd.3
Ru, Tuunal
Tiinkh       January, 1983.
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur,
Director, Operation Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
1818H Street N.W.,
Washingtcn D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Kapur,
Project Campletion Report -
Second Education Project Loan - 810 MA
Thank you for your letter of 15th November, 1982.  As requested,
I am sending a copy of camments on ' Project CaTpletion Report,
Second Education Project Loan 810 M, which I hope you will find
of interest and use to you. I hope the above camments would be
considered and incoporated in your final report.
Thank you.
Your sincerely,
(Nik Najib b. Husain)
Finance Division,
for Secretary General to the Treasury.



- 98 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 2 of 9)
CC>ZNTS 0' TH'l'E PRCJrECT COrNPLETION REFORT
SE.ICOND ED1Ji.ATTCN3 EROJECT - 810 MA
UNIVERSITY SAINS N SLAYSIA COMPONENT
1. Pace 1? : L-ngthy rod-tape procedure - F-ara 3.6 (c)
Reference to mistakes or feulty desion should be for reinforced
concr-c e (cuttcrs in the School of Diological Sciences, and not in
the Hcsid lnt . Halls.
2. Pzaoe 19-20: Frofessiondl Se-rvices
(a) Naster Site Fl,_n - Piara 4.19
It is not e fair statemor   The Mlaster Planner put up a theoretical
sort of Plan, a structur  4iich t-eas something which could not be
met *ftith5n the funds th,  ere allocated under the World Bank and
b(c.iuse of thi s, we hr'd to tell him it: wes not feasible; thus the
reason for the delcy.
Tt is not true to say thpt the U.J.I . lacks expertise in determin-
ine their real educational nceds. What happened was that the U.S.i.
\Ils asfked to submit their proposal for the project within 3 weeks
w'hich was insufficient to prepare their requirements. 3'oreover at
th,,t time the various schools of Pharmaceutical and Applied Sciences.,
Biologic al, Chemical Sciences, The Marine Field sitation etc had not
been estabR ished and as such there was no one at. the i ime to advise
an.d help determine their actual educational requirements. However
a proposal was submitted which ]a"t-r on h..d to be substantially
chr.nnred when the Deans and Senior Lecturers were appointed.
3. Fa(le 2C0 Desiqn - Fara 41.22
E robl-em caur.ed by the devaluation of the American Dollar must be
s'.tFd. It sh-oul(i be added in this peragraph, the problem caused by
W:he .lcvaluation of the American Dollar, w,here the space originFJ1ly
envisaged hao' to be reviewed. The delay in the finalizing of the
deslgn \.as3also partly due to the time taken for amendments to meet
the requirements of the   ik (.Architect)..
4. PF-ye 30: -ctual Costs -   era k.3
.It 2s not true that most of the. furniture component for the U.S;.:.
p-ojcf-', vlas paid by 1-ne University.
5. Pc-oe 50: Curriculo
E,ua  7.59 (k,econd sEntLence).



- 99 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 3 of 9)
'...... onc of which is a "general studies" programme, mainly for
the benefit of the weaker students'.
This is not tne objective of the 'general studies' programme, which
is to strengthen the inter-disciplinary studies, and to bring about
closer collaboration between the Airts and Sciences.
6.   Annex VII/9 : Pages 1 and
Changes made on the pageE



100 -ATTACHMENT II
-(Page 4 of 9)
Annex VII/9
p. 1
BACHELOR OF SCI ENCE PROGRAMME
REQUIREVIENT
Alternative A : Single Major
Science I                                               ?0 units*
Science II/III/or IV                                    16 units
Service liathematics/Elective/Opt n                     12 units
Bahasa Iialavsia IV                                      2 units
English Language                                      0- 8 units
Option                                                2-10 units
minimum   120 units
Alternat-ive B : Double Major
Science I                                               48 units
Science fI/III/or IV                                    48 units
Service Mathematics/Elective/Option                     12 units
Bahasa Malaysia IV                                       2 units
Znglish Lanouage                                      0- 8 units
Option                                                2-10 units
minimum   120 units
Alternative C : General Studies rogramme
Science I                                               62 units
Science II/III/or IV                                    16 units
Service Fathenatics/Elective/Option                     12 units
lMinor (chosen from 14 minors available              20-24 units
from the entire University)
Bahasa 1.alavsia IV                                     2 un-its
Enclish Lancuage/Option                                8-8 units
minimum 120 units
* 1 unit = 14 hours of contract (or 28 for laboratory/workshop)



- 101 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 5 of 9)
Annex VII/9
p. 2
U S [,
BACHELOR OF SCIE&CE WITH EDUCATION
PROGR.`i'ahE R'QJIREIMENTS (Honours)
Alternative A   2 Major
Science I                                            40 units
Science II                                            40 units
Service Mathematics/Elective/(  ion                   12 units
Educatim                                             48 units
Bahasa Nlaleysia IV                                    2 units
Enclish Lanouage                                    0- e units
minimum   142 units
Alternative i; : I Major
Science I                                          60-62 units
Science II (as minor)                              20-24 units
Service Eathematics/Elective/Option                   12 units
Bahasa Melaysia IV                                     2 units
English Language                                   0- 8 units
Education-                                           48 units
minimum   142 units
Alternative G . General Studies Programme
Science I                                          60-62 units
Ilinor (to select one field i  che offerings       20-24 units
of General Studies)
Service Mliathematics or Science II/III/or IV         12 units
EBhasa fLelaysia IV                                    2 units
English Language                                    0- 8 units
Education I/                                          48 units
minimum   142 units
1/ Including practice teaching for a totel of 16 weeks



- 102 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 6 of 9)
VOCATIONAL PNdiL T1LC'iNICA,L CCI PONCIIT
I.. On page (iii) para 12 the report states that the role of the
Vocatiional Schools needs clarification. Here we like to point out
that the role of the Secondary Vocational Schools in the Malaysian
Education System has been clearly defined. The present objectives
and aims are :
i.  to provide the industrial and commercial sector with train-
ed manpowcr equipped with basic knowledge and skills.
ii.  to provide a cur!  ulum that is both flexible and broad-
based to cater r   only for present needs but also for
future induistria changes and development.
ii>. to provide knowledge and skills that can be utilised where
necessary for further studies and training.
2.   On page 43 para 7.34 in the report it is stated that "The Depart-
ment of Technical and Vocational Education expresses itsappreciation
of its limitation and contemplates the extension of the programme
into 3 years". Here we like to respond  that what the Division
proposes is to h3ve an additional special courses for the good
students who aftcr qualifying SPVM examination do not wish to pursue
their education further. The objective of the courses should be to
equip these students with sgme sort of additional training in
specified areas of specialization as required by the industries.
EDUCATIONAL MEZDIA SEILV1ICES COMPOIENT
1.   Page (iii) paracraph 11
Under the Second Educae;on Project Loan 810 MIA only.18 video casse-
tte recorders (7CR) w'   purchased and supplied to State Educational
ledia Ssrvice C-ntres  -he selected Teacher Training Colleges and
the Educationa] Media ervice Division, Ministry of Education: The
additional video cassette recorders that are referred to were
purchatsed frcm a donation given by a private foundation and were
meant sp,cific,lly to assist in the 6th Form ETV Science Projcct.
The combinatioi of these two purchases could lead to a certain
a-iount of confusion as is evident in the Report.
2.   Page (i) 3(b)(71ii) and page 6 para 2.4 2 (c)
As expli;int2d in (C) above, unjer the provision of the 2nd Bank Loan
18 Video Cassetl;e rc-corders were supplied and not 25.



- 103 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 7 of 9)
3.   Page 40 - parc 7.21
(a)   TV sets wcre si lplicd to nearly all Schools and not to
'a selected nu lDer' as reported.
(b)   The additionul .V sets and generators referred to were the
sets supplicd   ) Sab<.h and Sardwak under the 3rd Education
Project, as TV had not been introduced to Sabah and Sarawak
when the recpc - for the 2nd Education Project was made.
4.   Annex VIT/I
In the oroanisationt2 chart of the Ministry of Education, Malayrsia,
the Educational Nedic S-rvice is referred to as the 'Educational
Television Serviccs -
CURRICLLUM1 DLV_LOPEThIJT C Rl -t_li COPPONENT
1.   Design : Pace 15 -g-a 4.4     d 4.5
(a)   Accoustics irn tie Con  ^ence Hall was not satisfactory. JKR
has just complcted renovations to improve the accoustics at
a cost of Ii$15,0C0.O This included the installation of wood
strip pane3linr, fibre glass and asroustic tiling.
(b)   Under the Fourtf lialaysia Plan, an additional floor to the
right wing of L e existing building has been provided for.
2.   Construction_: Paqe 1. para 4.6
Though the constructi n of the building in general is satisfactory
several cracks Ead lE kages have occured e.g :
-     large cracks in the aircondition plant rooms have yet to be
repaired.
-     roof leakagcs f.A the general office, hostel rooms and else-
where are occur na daily.
The fire alarm sycteii ;)-s not been working since its installation.
Lett-rs to JKR to rcci:ify this have not brought any positive response.
Another major fault a   the s;nkina of the floor of the Director's
room. JKR had to carr  out r   iir work to the floor towards the end
of 1qro, clusin  cl-I.- Ir hl  Lnconsvenience to the grneral office.
3.   Activities : Page 34 _ ra 7.3
The report sucgcLted -t i,-t the Centre when dealing with research into
areas of curriculum n   , es and the teachina/learning process in
schools, should also r ncci-n itself with iicn formal learning context.



- 104 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 8 of 9)
Though this has not ¶ -en one of our major objectives, action
research on t'ne role of the community in the learning of children
was undertaken by th, Comper atory Education Project.
4.   Staff Development : laae 3'  ara 7.9, 7.10 and
poac 37 pira 7.12 an, 7.13
(a)   Comment that ''ere has been a 'high wastage rate' because
32 out of 72 c'Ficers trained abroad for various levels of
specialisatiori have left CDC. The 32 officers who left CDC
were eithcr tr nsferred, seconded or promoted to other
i'linistry (:genc es/universities. Those promoted included
5 - to Univ csities, Recsam, Innotech
17 - to othc' divisions, schools, DewJan Bahasa dan Pustztsa
(b)   Report suages1  thdt 'lL:adership be strengthened and that
a serious revi w of staff promotion policy within CDC be
undertaken to stain more permanently its better professional
elements'. The CDC has made this plea to the Ministry at
every budget s ssion but the response from the Treasury and
PSD has bhen rn ¶t disappointing. UTnless serious consideration
is given to th's matter, the movement of better qualified
staff to oth'r divisions of the Ministry will continue.
(c)   Key Personnel  nd their role in the dissimination of curricu-
lum changes to teacher- has been questioned. As indicated in
the report tho cffect eness of the Key Personnel in the In-
Service course  orga.  ed at the state levels has not been
sufficiently studied  fowever, it is pertinent to state that
lack of proper incentives for the extra load they have to
carry is a maj'r problem which is currently being reviewed
PROJECT IIPLEI;EENTATION U1N n (FIU)
1.   Paqe 11 - p2ra 3.4
The first statement ' not a fair stateinent. It is a fact that prior
to 1979 the PIU was rossly understaffed. As such,operating with
on'y a skeletal sciaf  during the initial stages of the project
imp),ementation, the IvU did not have a systematic recording and
evaluation system. io:reover the PIU at that time was busily involved
in implementing the "irst World Bank lo.n. But during tht~ lLLur
stage of the project  implementation, the PIhU was able to ratei'dy the
situation and org.ni .e a proper recording, monitoring and evaluation
system. In-fact a su'stantial anount of the information and data
esp>cially on physi; 1 implementation, finance and reinbursemcnt for
the preparation of t o Project Completion Report (PCR) were obtain-
ed from the records '_hpt in the PIU.



- 105 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 9 of 9)
It is also re'r.-ted in the same paragraph that the PIU
failed to estab'is -uarterly progress reports and those sent
to the Bank contai-o'fd very limited information on the software
side. We consider ';e above statement as not true. As stated in
the loan Agrerment '-he PIll reguarly dispatched the Quarterly
Progress Rcports tc the Bank. But sometimes we admit that the
reports were sent fter some element of delay. As such it is not
true to say that t e PIU failed to establish Quarterly Progress
Reports. The rcporlting was done using the format prepared by the
Bank and the forma  used was such that it does not demand much
information on soft are side.
2.     Page 13 - para 3.7 -nd 3.8
/is          It/also appropriate to po   - out here that sane of the initital
delays in finalizirn  .he   ign plans and implement the projects
were due to the nurr-rous _visions in the design plans as request-
ed'by the differecrt (,rchitects of the Bank who came here under
different M-issions. :)ifferent architects tend to perceive things
differently and the-e wes lack of consistency. The Bank architects
at times tend to in) ose/force certain conditions which may be
suitable for other ''hird World Countries but not to Malaysia.
Such matters led to dispute between the Government and the World
Bank and delayed fu-ther  the implementation of the Project.



