Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5028 
Operation Name 
VN-Public Investment Reform 1 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); General public 
administration sector (40%); Sub-national government 
administration (20%) 
Project ID 
P117723 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
47-49 Ly Thai To Street 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 3934-3361 Fax: (84-4) 3825-0612 
icdwb@vnn.vn
Date PID Prepared 
September 2, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 20, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 15, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This is a programmatic series prepared in response to a request by the government to 
provide more resources to the budget, in support of the stimulus package.  This operation (PIR 1) 
could be the first IBRD loan to Vietnam.  Other development banks are expected to provide 
parallel finance referring to the same policy matrix, which was prepared in consultation with 
them.  The stimulus package is aimed to support critically important investments in 
infrastructure, but the management of public investments suffers from important weaknesses, 
some of which became apparent during the overheating of late 2007 and early 2008.  Therefore 
the policy actions considered for this credit refer to the management of the project cycle, with the 
aim of addressing those weaknesses. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
In addition to providing support to the stimulus package, this operation seeks to 
strengthen public investment processes in Vietnam.  With one of the highest investment rates in 
the world, and facing enormous demands for infrastructure development in the coming years, the 
public project cycle plays a key role in ensuring a high quality of growth.  Poor project 
preparation and screening, important environmental damage and adverse social impacts, 
fiduciary risks and pervasive conflict of interest, and an insufficiently developed framework for 
private participation in infrastructure currently undermine the efficiency of public investments.  
Page  2
Those weaknesses need to be addressed regardless of whether projects are funded by the budget 
or by donors.  At the same time, improving the public project cycle should result in higher 
disbursement rates for donor-funded projects.  Upgrading country systems in areas such as 
procurement and safeguards could also pave the way for their gradual use in donor-funded 
projects, on a pilot basis. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The program supports a policy matrix whose actions can be regrouped around four main 
areas: (i) project screening (ii) project implementation, (iii) financial management, and (iv) 
project oversight.  The selection of those actions as the most strategically important reforms that 
can be undertaken over a short period of time rests on economic and sector work on public 
investment, on a long-standing analytical program on public financial management reform, and 
on the joint work of the six development banks operating in Vietnam towards the implementation 
of the Paris Declaration and the Hanoi Core Statement on Aid Effectiveness.  It is expected that 
the first operation will be processed in late 2009, so as to help the government bridge the current 
financing gap.  This operation also spells out the indicative triggers (future policy actions) to be 
met before the second and final operation in the program can go ahead. 
 
4. Environmental Aspects 
 
The
 rapid growth and structural transformation associated with Vietnam’s transition to a 
market economy raises issues of environmental sustainability.  The decentralization of 
investment decisions to sub-national levels of government has not been accompanied by the 
adoption of a strong framework to incorporate environmental concerns in project screening and 
implementation.  In some cases, the legal requirements are in place, but implementation lags 
behind.  To address these concerns, this operation contributes to the mainstreaming of Strategic 
Environmental Assessments (SEAs) in the master plans of key sectors for the period 2011-2020, 
to the preparation and review of independent Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and 
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) at the feasibility study stage, and to the adoption of 
costing mechanisms for the budgeting of environmental assessments.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source:   
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
International Development Agency 
100 
Parallel financing by Agence Francaise de Developpement 
150 
 Total 
450 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Martin G. Rama 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5777+224 
Fax:  
Email: Mrama@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
Page  3
