Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5190 
Operation Name 
VN-Public Investment Reform 1 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); General public 
administration sector (40%);Sub-national government 
administration (20%) 
Project ID 
P117723 
Borrower(s) 
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
47-49 Ly Thai To Street 
Hanoi 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 3934-3361 Fax: (84-4) 3825-0612 
icdwb@vnn.vn 
Date PID Prepared 
October 28, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 9, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
December 15, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Vietnam went through considerable macroeconomic turbulence over the last two years.  Massive capital 
inflows in late 2007 and early 2008 resulted in a large trade deficit, an acceleration of inflation and real 
estate bubbles.  The global economic crisis, since late 2008, led to declining exports and long-term capital 
inflows, and a slowdown in economic activity.  In both cases, a determined policy response by the 
government succeeded in preserving a smooth economic performance.  A stabilization program adopted 
in early 2008 effectively burst the asset price bubble, contained the trade deficit and reduced inflation.  A 
strong stimulus package combining fiscal and monetary measures, in early 2009, mitigated the slowdown 
in economic growth and is by now supporting a strong recovery in economic activity.  Skillful policy 
making prevented a much feared balance of payment crisis in early 2008, preserved the health of the 
financial system throughout the turbulence, and allowed a rapid refinancing of enterprise debts at a time 
of rapid disinflation.  On the other hand, communication would have been more effective had there been 
greater transparency on financial and budgetary issues. 
 
The stimulus package was effective at boosting domestic demand at a time of declining demand for 
exports, but the government lacks the resources to fully finance it.  The financing gap can be estimated on 
the basis of the drawdown of government deposits in commercial banks, which is expected to reach US$ 
2.2 billion in 2009 or US$ 1.6 billion more than in 2008.  Meanwhile, the economic recovery is exerting 
pressure on the balance of payments, with imports growing again at a time when FDI and remittances are 
still below trend.  While the current level of trade deficit could in principle be financed through FDI 
inflows and remittances, the level of international reserves has declined in 2009.  This is mainly due to 
portfolio restructuring by residents, towards assets denominated in foreign currency.  As long as there is 
market confidence in government policies, external vulnerabilities should be manageable.  However, 
preserving confidence requires clear policy announcements in relation to fiscal, and especially to 
Page  2
monetary policy.  Excessively rapid credit growth is putting pressure on the exchange rate and on asset 
prices.  In light of the current economic recovery, in Vietnam and abroad, the budget deficit does not need 
to be as large as in 2008. 
 
The stimulus package aims mainly at financing critically important investments in infrastructure, which 
would otherwise suffer from the decline in government revenue.  However, public investment processes 
are plagued by weaknesses that need to be addressed.  Increased decentralization of investment decisions 
to lower levels of government has not been matched by the set up of a rigorous framework to ensure the 
coherence of investment plans, and to effectively prepare, select, implement and oversee projects.  The 
weaknesses of public investment in Vietnam were clearly exposed during the macroeconomic turbulence 
of the last two years.  Resources were allocated to sectors experiencing bubbles, thus amplifying 
economic instability.  Subsequently, it was difficult to prioritize investments in the effort to scale down 
public expenditures and stabilize the economy.  From a longer-term perspective, Vietnam has one of the 
highest investment rates in the world.  With little room to grow faster by relying on quantities, a focus on 
the quality of investment is warranted at this point. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The main objective of the proposed program is to improve public investment processes in Vietnam.  
Building on joint analytical work conducted by the World Bank, government and other donors on capital 
accumulation, public financial management and project implementation, the program is organized around 
a
series of policy actions with the potential to increase the efficiency and transparency of public 
investments.  The proposed program should contribute to the upgrading of country systems, narrowing 
their current gaps with standard international practice.  
 
The proposed program is also intended to contribute to macroeconomic stability, by providing resources 
to cover some of the financing gap faced by the stimulus package, and to boost the level of international 
reserves.  In doing so, the proposed program is expected to sustain the current recovery of Vietnam, while 
at the same time addressing external vulnerability and contributing to improved market sentiment. 
 
Through this combination of efficiency and stability objectives, the proposed program should contribute 
to modern governance, one of the four 
main “pillars” of Vietnam’s Socio-Economic Development Plan 
(SEDP) 2006-2010.  The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) is aligned to the SEDP.  Better planning 
processes, more effective project implementation and stronger public financial management, all areas 
covered by the proposed program, fall under the modern governance pillar of SEDP.  Through its focus 
on the environmental screening and the environmental management of projects, the proposed program is 
also expected to contribute to the natural resources pillar of SEDP.  Its attention to fair compensation in 
the event of land acquisition should also contribute to the social inclusion pillar. 
 
The proposed program would be the first one mobilizing IBRD resources for Vietnam.  IBRD lending 
was not yet considered when the CPS was prepared, given that all the lending program was on IDA terms 
at the time.  However, Vietnam’s transition to the status of a blend country is discussed in the recently 
completed Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Increasing the efficiency of public investment is an important objective of the government development 
strategy.  However, progress in this area has been insufficient, mainly due to inherited institutional 
constraints.  During the command and control period, investments by government but also by state-owned 
enterprises (SOEs) used to be jointly managed.  Gradually, the separation between government and SOE 
investments became clearer, and responsibilities for public investment projects were delegated to lower 
Page  3
levels of government.  However, this delegation of responsibilities to lower levels of government has not 
been accompanied by a broader framework to ensure the coherence of public investment plans and the 
quality of individual projects.  
 
A
window of opportunity exists to reform public investment processes in Vietnam at present.  The 
macroeconomic turbulence of the last two years clearly exposed their weaknesses of such processes.  
Growing concern by the public opinion about the environmental impacts of large public investment 
projects are adding to the momentum, as is the need for the government to secure resources to finance its 
stimulus package.  In the case of the proposed operation, the strong analytical work conducted by the 
World Bank and other donors in areas such as planning and investment policy, public financial 
management, and harmonization, makes it possible to identify what the critical issues are, and to request 
the attention of senior leadership to their satisfactory resolution.  
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed operation, Public Investment Reform Development Policy Loan 1, is the first in a 
programmatic series of two.  Each operation is for US$ 500 million on IBRD terms.  The Agence 
Française de Développement (AFD) is expected to provide parallel finance referring to the program based 
on the same policy matrix.  Other development banks could join for the second operation in this program.
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
This is a programmatic series prepared in response to a request to provide more resources to the budget, 
in support of the government’s stimulus package.   Disbursement will not be linked to any specific 
purchases and no procurement requirements will have to be satisfied.  The government uses the funds for 
any expenditure except for ineligible purposes defined in the Financing Agreement.  
 
Technical meetings to follow up on the implementation of prior actions and triggers agreed under the 
program are coordinated by the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) with the involvement of concerned line 
ministries or government agencies.  These meetings provide an opportunity to go into the specifics of 
each action, to comment on draft policy documents, and to agree on a time schedule for their completion.   
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Macroeconomic instability is one of the most important risks facing the proposed program.  So far, the 
government has successfully navigated through both the massive capital inflows of late 2007-early 2008 
and the current global crisis.  The stimulus package has contributed to a strong recovery in 2009.  
However, external vulnerability has increased as imports grow again, whereas long-term inflows are still 
below trend and residents have restructured their portfolios towards foreign-denominated assets.
 
This risk is being addressed through a strong engagement in the policy dialogue on macroeconomic 
policies, which is leading to a rebalancing of the growth and stabilization objectives and to the adoption 
of a stronger fiscal and monetary framework for the remaining of 2009 and 2010.  By helping bridge the 
financing gap and boosting international reserves, this operation is also expected to mitigate the risk of 
macroeconomic instability.
 
There is also a risk that the policy actions supported by the program will not be sufficient to make a 
substantial difference in the quality of public investments in Vietnam.  The short time frame of the 
program, associated with the need to address the financing gap and external vulnerabilities, conflicts with 
the slowness of the consensual approach to economic reform underlying policy making in Vietnam.  In 
particular, it is difficult to introduce fundamental changes in areas where substantive differences of views 
remain, such as public procurement.
 
Page  4
To address this 
risk, the proposed program builds from the lessons learned from Vietnam’s long-standing 
experience with policy lending.  One of those lessons is the importance of “lock-in reforms” around 
which other actions fall in place.  Building on that precedent, the program is anchored around two 
critically important laws: on the amendment of investment-related laws (already passed under the first 
operation) and on public investment (whose preparation is a trigger for the second operation).  In addition, 
the program is designed so as to achieve the desired outcomes through measures that work around 
existing institutional obstacles.
 
Finally, there is a risk that measures will be adopted as agreed, but the specifics will be such that the 
impact of those measures on the efficiency and transparency of public investments could be diluted.
 
This risk is to some extent addressed by the quality of the ongoing technical assistance work provided by 
the six development banks in several of the areas covered by the proposed program, and by the World 
Bank and other donors in relation to public financial management.  This long-term engagement predates 
the proposed program.  In parallel, the importance of the proposed program to sustain the economic 
recovery and mitigate external risk has increased the attention of senior leadership to the reforms covered 
by the proposed program.  The combination of long-term engagement and government attention can be 
expected to mitigate the risk of a diluted adoption of the program. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Public investment projects in infrastructure have made a substantive contribution to poverty reduction in 
Vietnam.  Local infrastructure projects, such as those undertaken under the second phase of Program 135, 
which is targeted to the most disadvantaged communes, have resulted in improved access to markets and 
better social services, having a clear impact of the livelihoods of some of the poorest population groups in 
the country.  Large-scale infrastructure projects, while having a more indirect impact on poverty, have 
enhanced the business environment thus contributing to massive job creation.  In addition, by supporting 
the adoption of a financing framework for PPP projects, the proposed program is expected to contribute to 
a
rising share of private investments in infrastructure.  From this perspective, the proposed program 
should have positive social impacts.    
 
Potentially negative impacts could be expected if the proposed program led to an increase in land 
reclamation and more resettlement of affected populations.  However, this is unlikely, as the stimulus 
package basically aims at mitigating decline in public investments, as a result of a drop in revenue 
collection and the difficulties to issue more public debt, not at supporting their increase.  Moreover, a key 
measure under the program should lead to substantial improvements in procedures for land reclamation 
and compensation.  This measure, recently passed, including provisions on land-use planning, land prices, 
development of land funds, land acquisition and compensation, and resettlement support.  The most 
significant improvements concern compensation and assistance for affected populations.  According to 
the decree, those whose land is reclaimed are entitled to relocation and resettlement assistance in the cases 
of residential land, and livelihood and production assistance, occupational training and job-seeking 
assistance in the case of agricultural land.   
 
The proposed program is likely to have an overall positive impact on the environment, forests, and other 
natural resources.  A number of environmental policy actions are included in the program precisely with 
the objective of generating a significant positive environmental impact.  In particular, the program 
supports actions to update or improve environmental legislation, in the areas of environmental screening, 
environmental management and environmental costs.  The proposed actions and triggers in these areas are 
intended to fill identified gaps in the country’s existing environmental legislation.  As a result of the 
proposed policy interventions, it is expected that environmental management practices in Vietnam should 
be significantly improved. 
Page  5
8. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Martin G. Rama 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5777+224 
Fax:  
Email: Mrama@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
