Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22742
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37610; SCL-3761A; SCPD-3761S)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 260.5 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SUMATERA AND KALIMANTAN POWER PROJECT
December 7, 2001
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective ICR Mission - October 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 10,000 = US$ 1.01
US$ 1 = 9,900
At the Appraisal - January 1994
Rp. 10,000 = US$ 4.75
US$ I = Rp. 2,105
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS   -        National Development Planning Agency
DGEED         -      Directorate-General of Electricity and Energy Development
DSM           -     Demand-Side Management
EIA           -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR          -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ESP           -      Electrostatic Precipitator
ETAM          -      Electricity Tariff Adjustment Mechanism
GOI           -     Government of Indonesia
LRAIC         -      Long-Run Average Incremental Costs
IPP           -     Independent Power Producer
HPP          -      Hydropower Plant
LRMC          -      Lon-run Marginal Cost
MIS          -      Management Information System
MME           -      Ministry of Mines and Energy (now Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources)
NERC          -     North-American Reliability Council
NGO           -     Nongovernmental Organization
PAP           -     Project Affected Persons
PERTAMINA  -        National Oil and Gas Company
PLN           -      State Electricity Corporation
PPA           -     Power Purchase Agreement
PPE           -     Engineering Services Center of PLN
QAG          -      Quality Advisory Group
RE           -      Rural Electrification
SAR          -       Staff Appraisal Report
SOP          -      Standard Operating Procedures
SPP          -      Steam Power Plant
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TOR          -      Terns of Reference
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mohammad Farhandi, EASEG
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Kurt Schenk, EASEG



Banjarmasin Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant (2x65 MW)
'w~~~~~~~~~~~~'
' 1./IPI+.'JEe  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n






Besai Hydropower Plant (2x45 MW)
GEOUNG PEMBANGKIT
en e Da       PIA BESAIJ
All'~'






30 MW Barge-mounted Gas Turbine
L M-'mmbz                -                w
10 MW Barge-mounted Diesel
->A_s  Ns,,  j






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SUMATERA & KALIMANTAN POWER PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 I 1
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 35
Maps: IBRD No. 22506R1, 25507R1, 22508R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003910                                       Project Name: SUMATERA AND KALIMANTAN
POWER
Team Leader: Kurt F. Schenk                               TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 14, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SUMATERA AND KALIMANTAN POWER                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-37610;
SCL-3761 A;
SCPD-3761 S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/s ubsector: PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/15/1993                              Effective:                     11/23/1994
Appraisal:  10/01/1993                                MTR:
Approval:  06/21/1994                              Closing:  12/31/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/PLN
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        M. Haug (Acting VP)
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                 M. Haug
Sector Manager:      M. Farhandi                                P. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:   K.Schenk                                  S. Bhatnagar
ICR Primary Author:   K. Schenk; Y. Zhou; T. Walton;
M. Ogawa
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report dated May 27, 1994 were to support
the first phase of the Government's long-term policy agenda for the power sector aimed at efforts to: (a)
increase private sector participation in building generating capacity and upgrade sector operating standards
and practices; (b) restructure PLN to improve its operating performance and service efficiency; (c)
formulate and implement regulations to promote efficiency in sector operations; (d) introduce a
formula-based periodic tariff adjustment mechanism to recover costs. In addition, the project was to (e)
help finance environmentally sustainable expansion of PLN's generation and transmission capacity in
Sumatera and Kalimantan with more economical central grid systems; and (f) provide technical assistance
to GOI and PLN on environmental management, efficiency improvement and demand management.
The sectoral objectives were overly ambitious regarding power sector restructuring and regulatory reform.
They were nevertheless clearly defined and reflected Indonesia's as well as the Bank's priorities for power
sector development. In particular, GOI's policy at the time included inter alia the restructuring of energy
institutions and regulations to ensure efficient and reliable supply of electricity at least cost; promoting
increased private sector participation and independent power generation projects as well as energy
conservation measures, and fostering regionally balanced development to ensure that the majority of the
people could afford the basic services provided by electricity to improve their standard of living.
The objectives had clear links to the Bank's prevailing Country Assistance strategy (CAS) as well as the
on-going lending operations prevailing at the time of project preparation/loan approval (1993-1994), which
aimed at assisting the country meet its critical demand for electricity in an efficient and environmentally
sustainable way. The CAS supported energy development and highlighted: (a) achieving poverty reduction
through increased funding for regional development, and a shift towards smaller and regionally oriented
projects targeted at the reducing urban-rural disparities in the quality of life; and (b) striking the
appropriate balance between public and private roles in energy distribution.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The above objectives were not revised during project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The original design of the Project included the following components:
Policy Component. including: (a) establishing a policy framework for private sector participation; (b)
restructuring PLN and establishing commercial operations as a Persero (limited liability company); (c)
implementing a framework for regulatory oversight of the private sector and PLN, and (d) introducing
formula-based periodic adjustment of tariff, as well as bulk power purchase and supply tariffs.
Physical Component, including: (a) Construction of a dam and a 2x45 MW Hydropower Plant at Besai; (b)
Construction of a 2x65 MW Banjarmasin Thermal Power Plant at Asam-Asam; (c) Construction of a 10
MW Diesel and a 30 MW Gas Turbine barge-mounted power plants.
Technical Assistance Component, including technical assistance for (a) engineering and construction
supervision of Besai Hydroelectric and Banjarmasin thermal power plants; (b) strengthening PLN's
environmental management capability through the establishment of a specialized environmental unit within
PLN; (c) conducting an evaluation of altemative demand management program options including
technologies, delivery mechanism and promotional framework; (d) carrying out pilot projects in PLN's
- 2-



regions IV and VI involving decentralization aimed at efficiency improvement of PLN's operations; (e)
strengthening the MME environmental management in the coal mining sector through the improvement of
its environmental policy and regulatory framework and its environmental regulation enforcement capacity
in coal mining.
While the policy, physical and institutional project components were linked to the project development
objectives, the policy components and objectives (a)-(d) were not directly supported by resources provided
under the loan. Rather, the loan included covenants relating to the first three of the four project objectives,
but the technical assistance components needed to support objectives (a), (b) and (c) were provided under
the Infrastructure TA, Suralaya, and Cirata II projects, respectively. One TA component under the
project-the efficiency pilot projects in Regions IV and VI-was directed toward supporting objective (c);
however, the scope of that component was not commensurate with that of the related objective.
Moreover, apart from the power tariff adjustment objective-which the project did not support either
through covenants or resources-no component was included in the project to directly address PLN's
financial management capacity. This should have been a crucial aspect of ensuring the achievement of
objective (b), given that-at the time-PLN's Outer Islands operations were unprofitable. While PLN's
improved future financial performance was covenanted under the loan, and an objective of related projects
at the time (i.e., Suralaya and Cirata II) was to strengthen PLN's financial situation, none of these projects
included resources to directly improve PLN's financial position.
Components                       Estimated Cost at Appraisal
(US$ Million equivalent)
Besai Hydroelectric Power Plant                                164.7
Banjarmasin Thermal Power Plant                                311.2
Barge-Mounted Power Plants                                     34.0
Engineering and Construction Supervision Besai                 22.6
Engineering and Construction Supervision Banjarmasin           12.4
PLN Environmental Management                                    1.8
MME Environmental Management                                    3.5
Demand Management                                               2.5
Pilot Projects, Wilayah IV and VI                               3.0
Compensation and Resettlement                                   9.9
Administration                                                 12.8
Total                                                          578.4
3.4 Revised Components:
The above components were not revised during project implementation, except that the technical assistance
activity for the demand management program was cancelled upon request of PLN.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
Overall, quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory, given the disconnect between project resources and
objectives, (as outlined in 3.3 above). Nevertheless, the quality at entry of other aspects of project
preparation were satisfactory, based on the strength of the (a) consistency of objectives with the priorities
of the Government and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy; (b) project design based on lessons learned
from prior Bank operations in Indonesia; (c) comprehensive environmental impact and resettlement
considerations and socioeconomic studies included in project design; (d) extensive consultation with NGOs
during project preparation assisted in relieving the concerns of the PAPs, and subsequently, during project
implementation, in having the framework for resolving outstanding issues; (e) comprehensive feasibility
studies carried out by qualified personnel and reviewed by technical experts and the Bank. The
- 3 -



methodology used to justify both plants was based on the time-tested selection of the least cost alternatives
to supply peaking capacity in south Sumatera and base load capacity in south Kalimantan; and (f) high
ownership of PLN and GOI on the project.
Project risks and associated assessments were included in the SAR. While the assessments and risk ratings
appear to be reasonable, the actual situation turned out to differ in particular related to implementation
schedules: (a) the technical and project management risks including potential implementation delays were
rated as low. Though the physical components were completed successfully, substantial delays (by about
21 months) have been encountered; (b) the risk of underatilization of the power plants was rated low, which
proved to be the case; (c) risk associated with failure by GOI to implement the power sector policy agenda,
which was described in SAR the major potential risk associated with the project, was also rated as low.
Although GOI commitment to power sector reform was renewed in the launching of a power sector policy
paper in August 1998, substantial delays have occurred.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective.
Overall, the achievement of project objectives can be rated unsatisfactory, primarily because the key policy
objectives under the project have not yet been achieved, and were in fact unlikely to have been achieved
under the design of the project (3.3 and 3.5 above). While progress has been made toward meeting the
project's policy objectives, much of this progress cannot be attributed to the project itself (as described in
4.2 below).
Since the project was prepared, the nature and depth of the policy objectives in question has changed. For
instance, with respect the objective to increase private sector participation, the experience with Indonesia's
independent power producer (IPP) program has highlighted the pitfalls of unsolicited generation proposals,
an approach which was proposed in the project's SAR. More importantly however, the regional crisis
actually provided the opportunity for the intended scope of the power sector reforms to be broadened and
deepened, and the Government's Power Sector Restructuring Policy of August 1998 outlines a much more
market-oriented vision of power sector operation than did the Government's statement of Goals and
Policies for the Development of the Electric Power Sub-Sector, as presented in the SAR.
On the physical side, despite delays, all the physical facilities - the hydropower plant, the thermal power
plant and the barge-mounted power plants - have been completed successfully according to the original
designs. They have been under normal operation since their completion.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy Components
Establishment of a policy framework for private sector participation. The achievement of this
component is rated unsatisfactorv. The project itself only contained a covenant relating to the increased
private sector participation objective/component. The first part of this covenant related to the completion
of TA-funded under another project-for preparing the groundwork to draft rules governing private
sector participation in the power sector. While the TA was successfully completed, the second part of the
covenant-which required implementing those rules-was not met. And while the Government was
successful in signing 26 power purchase agreements (PPAs) with various IPPs for a total of 11,000 MW of
new capacity, the majority of these were unsolicited proposals not in line with either PLN's power
development plans nor the national electricity general plan (RUPTL). In the years preceding the regional
- 4 -



crisis, the Bank drew the attention of the Government to its concern regarding the manner in which the IPP
program was being managed through a variety of channels, including Country Economic Memoranda and
covenants in a follow up loan (i.e., the Second Power Transmission and Distribution Project). When this
was unsuccessful, at the end of 1997 the Bank informed the Government that the processing of new power
sector loans was suspended. Finally, while the 1998 Policy (4.1) does establish a sound policy framework
for future private sector participation, realistically, significant levels of new private sector investment in the
sector will not be possible until the fallout from the impact of the regional crisis on the existing IPP
program is fully resolved.
Reforming regulatory and sectoral development functions. The achievement of this component is rated
unsatisfactory. Similarly, this objective/component had a covenant which required the completion of
relevant TA funded under another project, and while this TA was completed, its recommendations were not
implemented. The establishment of an appropriate legislative and regulatory framework still remains a
major sectoral issue. A draft electricity law has been pending enactment since 1998. The new law will
replace the Electricity Law No. 15 of 1985. The legislative and regulatory framework as well as the
government regulations relating to tariff structure and levels (i.e. Tariff Code), transmission grid operation
and generation dispatch (i.e. Grid Code); distribution connection and operation (i.e. Distribution Code) and
planning and competitive tendering (Planning and Tendering Code), are being covered by ADB's assistance
program and are the responsibility of the Governnent under the MME.
Corporatizing and restructuring of PLN to improve the efficiency of its operations. The achievement
of this component is rated unsatisfactory. While the covenant associated with this objective/component
was partially met-since PLN was successfully corporatized into a limited liability company, and two
generation subsidiaries were established in Java-Bali-the restructuring did not have a fundamental impact
on PLN's operations. Most business units within PLN were neither successfully functionally and
geographically unbundled nor transformed into profit centers. The 1998 Policy calls for even more far
reaching far-reaching changes in the power sector, including the unbundling of PLN, and thus create a
sector which is able to grow rapidly, provide high quality and efficient power supply, and be financially
independent. The Policy provides for a new direction of the sector along four interlinked strands, namely:
(a) restoration of financial viability of the sector; and bring about (b) competition; (c) more transparency;
and (d) more efficient private sector participation. To support the Government's restructuring policy, the
ADB provided a program loan in March 1999 towards reforms at the government and sector level in the
areas of legislation, regulation, power market and so on, while the corporate and financial restructuring of
PLN is being undertaken through consulting services under the Bank financed Second Power Transmission
and Distribution Project (Ln 3978). The Bank and the ADB as well as other players have been in close
coordination toward power sector reform and PLN restructuring.
Introduction of formula-based periodic tariff adjustment. The achievement of this component is rated
unsatisfactory. The project contained no resources or covenants to ensure the attainment of this objective.
An Electricity Tariff Automatic Adjustment Mechanism (ETAM) was introduced by Presidential Decree
(Keppres 68/94) in October 1994. PLN's base tariff was increased by Presidential Decree at the same
time. The formula-based adjustment mechanism, which was designed to maintain the real value of PLN's
charges between changes to the base tariff, empowered the MME to make quarterly adjustments on the
basis of the weighted average of changes in the prices of fuels, prices of power purchases, local inflation,
and the US$-Rupiah exchange rate. While the implementation of the adopted mechanism did result in
increases in PLN's tariffs, these were not sufficient to enable PLN meet its ROR target during the period
prior to the crisis in 1997 for three main reasons: (a) the October 1994 increase in the base tariff was too
low as a result of 1995 sales having been significantly overestimated; (b) the mechanism was designed to
enable the pass-through only of those changes in costs that outside PLN's control; (c) there were some
- 5-



deficiencies in its implementation, including significant lags in applying increases and adjustments made to
base figures. The use of the mechanism was suspended following the onset of the crisis when it became
apparent that the rapid depreciation of the Rupiah would trigger very large across-the-board tariff
increases, with the understanding that consideration may need to be given to introducing an improved
mechanism once the base tariff has been restored to a commercial viable level. However, this has not
happened.
Physical Components
Construction of 2x65MW coal-fired units at Asam Asatn in South Kalimantan. The achievement of
this component is rated satisfactor .
Banjarmasin Units 1 and 2, comprising 2x65 MW of base-loaded capacity, are located near the village of
Asam Asam, 123 km by public road southeast of Banjarmasin. The mine-mouth power station will be
developed in stages with an ultimate capacity of 660 MW. It receives lignite from the adjacent mine in
Asam Asam, located approximately 8 km north of the power plant. The lignite is delivered in crushed form
by truck along a dedicated haulage road. Coal reserves at both Central and East Asam Asam deposits are
estimated in excess of 50 million tons, sufficient for use by the plant over its lifetime. Both base-loaded
units are now in commercial operation, and meeting the growing demand in Wilayah VI. Load forecasts
indicate that the average annual demand growth rate is expected to be in the 3-5% range in the short to
medium term. Although this is a reduction from historical 9-10 % growth levels, both units are now loaded
to full capacity as base loaded units, after the small hydro units, since they generate electricity cheaper than
existing diesel units. 228 km of 150 kV transmission lines connected Banjarmasin to the major substations;
these were financed through an Australian Loan.
Load factors during the first year of operation were as expected in the 70% range and increased to the 80%
range in the second year (i.e. 2001). However, a failure of the cooling water pump in 2001 in Unit I
reduced the output of Unit 1 by 50% till repairs were made, thus reducing the plant load factor for 2001 to
about 68%. The plant has operated safely since commissioning, with both boiler efficiencies and ESP
efficiencies close to the design values.
Project delays occurred mainly due to (i) late signing of contracts -from 9-13 months delays, (ii) change in
scope of the Turbine Generator and Auxiliaries package, (iii) the implementation of a two-stage bidding
process for the Instrumentation and Control package, as well as for coal and ash handling equipment, and
(iv) change of financing from JBIC (formerly OEFC) to IBRD, due to a shortfall in Japanese financing of
about US$ 12.7 million caused by foreign exchange variations between the US$ and the Japanese Yen. The
SAR established the commercial operation dates of Units 1&2 as December 1998 and March 1999,
respectively; commercial operation for Units 1&2 occurred on November and December 2000,
respectively. An acceleration program introduced in late 1998, assisted in improving coordination and in
averting further delays in the implementation of the Project. Therefore, the total delay for the commercial
operation of Units 1&2 was about 21 months. There is no doubt that the economic crisis disturbances in
Jakarta during early part of 1998, the late final placement of the coal and Ash Contract, late hand-over of
civil foundation to various contractors, late delivery of contractors' equipment, all contributed to a lesser or
greater degree to delays in Project implementation.
Construction of 2x45MW hydropower units in Besai in South Sumatra. The achievement of this
component is rated satisfactory.
Besai HEPP is a run-of-river hydropower plant with a daily regulating storage capacity, harnessing 95% of
- 6 -



dependable firm discharge of 8.3 cumecs and a head of 245 m. Besai energy production is about 402
GWh, consisting of 144 GWh of primary energy and 258 GWh of secondary energy, with an installed
capacity of 90 MW used principally to meet peak demand in Wilayah IV. The Power House comprises a
main building installed with two 45 MW generating units, and two 46.4 MW vertical shaft Francis
turbines. A 16 km, 150 kV transmission line was also built to connect Besai to the power Grid of Wilayah
IV.
The implementation of the Project was on schedule till the wet testing of Unit I in December 1999.
Commercial operation was expected in April 2000, with only a three month delay. However, during the
wet testing, two unrelated incidences occurred: (a) failure of the headrace tunnel; and (b) flooding of the
power house. An investigation report commissioned by PLN stated that the failure of the tunnel concrete
was due in part by the nonexistence of extemal hydraulic pressure surrounding the tunnel (due to
permeable/fractured rock formation) and the leak of tunnel water under high pressure through construction
joints and unfilled grout holes. As a countermeasure and after an investigation of various options, the Bank
agreed with PLN and the Consultant that installation of a steel-lining in the affected parts of the tunnel
would be appropriate (i.e. where unusual rock formation with no surrounding ground water pressure
exists). Installation of the steel liner was completed in December 2000. The Consultant has taken full
responsibility for the integrity of the functioning of the headrace tunnel, after completion of the remedial
works. Units 1 and 2 were placed in cormmercial operation in June 2001, a delay of about 14 months.
Cleaning and repair work to the Power House due to flooding of the turbine building was completed in
April 2000. The flooding was caused by sliding to the tailrace spoil pile. Although no mechanical damage
was identified, cleaning and drying of equipment lasted for about 4 months. The units are now operating
successfully.
Construction of two barge-mounted power plants: 10 MW diesel and 30 MW Gas Turbine. The
achievement of this component is rated satisfactory.
The 30 MW barge-mounted gas turbine is now anchored at Lampung in Wilayah IV after meeting the
demand for a time at Madura following the severing of the undersea cable serving the island. Since its
commissioning on schedule in March 1998, the 30 MW GT supplied the south Kalimantan area till the
commercial operation of the two units at Banjarmasin (Asam-Asam) in December 2000. The 10 MW
barge-mounted diesel plant has been operating since its commissioning in April 1997 at Pontianak,
Kalimantan. As designed during project conception as mobile power plants, both of these barge-mounted
units have been assisting to meet the load demand during the periodic shortages in the region.
Technical Assistance ComDonents
Strengthening the Capacity of GOI for Environmental Management in the Coal Mining Sector. The
output of this component is rated highly satisfactorv. This TA, completed in August 1999, was carried out
by Consultants on behalf of the Bureau of Environment and Technology of the Ministry of Mines and
Energy. The Ministry has implemented many of the recommendations made by the Project Management
Team. These changes amount to a change in the organizational culture of MME. It has:
*   supported the accomplishment of significant regulatory development and environmental protection of
the Ministry;
*   significantly upgraded the enforcement capabilities of the Ministry for mine inspection. It has done so
by training a cadre of inspectors in a full suite of training experiences which have improved their
ability to inspect mines and enforce environmental requirements;
- 7 -



* added to the Ministry's analytical capability. It has brought in state of the art analytical equipment and
provided training thereof, and has improved the data used in environmental decision making;
* established new regulatory standards in key areas such as bonding and sedimentary pond construction
and design standards.
Strengthening PLN's Environmental Management Capabilities. The work was completed on December
21, 1998. As the TOR for the consultancy services was prepared prior to the establishment of PLN's
Environmental Division, with Bank's approval, the TOR was modified to "to assist PLN in strengthening
the capabilities of existing Environmental Division". The main output of this work was in the preparation
of guidelines, namely: Guidelines for occupational and health safety audits; Guidelines for environmental
audits; Guidelines for a monitoring data transfer system, exchange of experience on atmospheric dispersion
model; Guideline for minimizing flue gas emissions and optimizing generation of thermal power plants;
Guideline for minimizing effluents and reducing water consumption of thermal power plants. One issue
that remains is the definition of role and responsibility of DIVLING (the organization created to oversea the
Environmental Management in PLN) during the ongoing restructuring process. This will be taken up
during the Financial and Corporate Restructuring work underway. The output of this component is rated
satisfactory.
Pilot Project to Strengthen Business Processes and Competencies in Wilayah IV and VI. The output
of this component is rated satisfactory. It was completed in November 1997 and has assisted to (a)
improve the respective Wilayah overall management capabilities; (b) secure efficiency improvement
through the adoption of commercial management practices; and (c) prepare both Wilayah for greater
financial and operational independence as a foundation of establishing business units and possible
corporatization. Major outputs of this component included:
* Developing regional business plans in both Wilayah;
X   Making investment decisions taking into account first the regional needs and not decided on an ad hoc
basis by PLN Pusat.
* Making staffing decisions based on a skills assessment methodology developed by the region to make
the Wilayah more autonomous and commercial;
* Developing a performance management system based on profitability considerations;
* Making environmental issues more visible and assign responsibility to Head/Deputy of the Planning
Department.
Demand Management. In view of the financial crisis in the sector and at PLN in particular, PLN decided,
with Bank concurrence, against the continuing with this technical assistance. This component was
cancelled in December 1998.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retuirn:
The SAR assessed the economic viability of the Besai and Banjarmasin power plant on the basis of the
costs and benefits associated with the project. The plants' capital costs were measured as (a) the plant and
related equipment including associated transmission lines from the generation facility to the interconnected
grid; these costs include physical contingencies but exclude taxes; and (b) the incremental transmission and
distribution costs arising from the use of the network to supply the customers with electricity generated by
the plants. The benefits were estimated by the revenue from the incremental electricity sales on the basis of
the current average electricity tariff for Regions IV and VI, and supplemented by the consumer surplus. In
the case of industrial, commercial and public consumers, their willingness to pay was estimated by the cost
of self -generation from captive diesel plants.
- 8 -



Ex-post calculations of EIRR were carried out in line with the same methodology. The results show
Banjarmasin with an EIRR of 8.9%, excluding consumer surplus, and 14.4% including consumer surplus.
As Banjarmasin was fully loaded since commissioning, there were no incremental T&D investments
included in the evaluation. For Besai the EIRR has been re-evaluated as 10.8%, excluding consumer
surplus, and 14.2% including surplus, for a 50 year economic life. For a 25 years economic life, the
EIRRs Besai are slightly reduced, namely: 9.9% (without consumer surplus) and 13.8% (with consumer
surplus). The appraisal values were calculated with consumer surplus as 15% for Banjarmasin and 14%
for Besai (for a 25 year economic life).
The economic returns for Banjarmasin and Besai depend strongly on the assumptions made on the tariffs
increases. In both cases the tariff is assumed to increase to a level of 7 c/kWh by 2006, based on PLN's
expected tariff increases for full cost recovery in 2005-2006. However, because of the unfavorable
exchange rate, the gap between the existing and required average tariff is large and the tariff increase has to
be gradual and with continuous effort in building acceptance. The Government expects to implement the
needed tariff increase over the next five years, thereby arriving at the appropriate level by mid 2005, as
assumed in this ICR.
To further gauge the economic benefits of Besai HPP, a comparison was made with the next best
alternative for peaking capacity. This produced an equalizing discount rate of 15%, indicating a preference
for Besai, and supporting the conclusion reached above.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact is rated as modest, and this in spite of the fact that the
technical assistance components, except for one that was cancelled, were implemented satisfactorily. All
proposed training of PLN and MME staff has been satisfactorily carried out. Despite the financial crisis in
the region, and implementation delays in the physical components of the Project, PLN demonstrated its
competence and flexibility in decision making, by the satisfactory completion of the project. The Project
also provided the framework for greater decentralization of management, and the creation of autonomous
business units, as well a human resource development and planning. The policy reforms did help to open
the sector to private investors and restructuring of PLN, and for regulatory oversight. The environmental
management capabilities of both PLN and MME were enhanced, and both Wilayah IV and VI have been
introduced to sound commercial management practices which are serving them well in PLN and
Government plush to decentralization of functions to the regions. However, the restructuring of PLN and
the creation of a regulatory framework, are still underway, and the high cost of power purchased from
IPPs, coupled with low tariffs, have affected adversely PLN's financial situation.
4.6 Environmental Impacts:
The environmental assessments for both power plants accurately predicted the likely impacts of
construction and operation. Design features recommended to minimize or avoid adverse impacts were
indeed constructed, and measures to mitigate impacts of plant operation have also been properly
implemented. In the case of Banjarmasin, where air quality degradation is the most serious potential
impact, the air pollution control equipment and procedures are proving to be particularly robust; although
the coal used at commissioning had twice the sulfur content (0.99% versus 0.5%) suggested as the limit to
assure compliance with emission and ambient standards, the plant did not violate either during its
Performance Test or the first round of normal operation monitoring. The plant was also in compliance with
ambient noise standards offsite, although it exceeds the limit for industrial facilities at the source (below
-9-



stack). Violations of ambient water quality standards for dissolved oxygen and ammonia in the Asam Asam
River are attributable to upstream sources of organic pollution and not to the wastewater from the power
plant. Routine monitoring conducted since confirms the plant's ability to comply consistently with
standards. At Besai, periodic drying up of 7 km of the Besai River was accepted as an unavoidable
adverse impact when the project was approved. High sediment loads in the river caused by poor land
management and resulting erosion in the catchment are a continuing concern and point to the need for
intensified catchment management efforts, including continuing encouragement of community-based forest
management.
The environmental impacts for the transmission lines for both Banjarmasin (228 km, 150 kV) and Besai
(16 kIn, 150 kV 2cct) were not significant, as the transmission lines did not pass through environmentally
sensitive areas.
4.7 Resettlement and Land Acquisition:
The land acquisition. resettlement and rehabilitation conducted at Asam Asam are nearly textbook
examples of good practice. PLN acquired a total of 187 ha for the plant site, the access road, the
resettlement community and a PLN staff housing colony. All but 5 ha were already in government
ownership; however, besides purchasing those 5 ha from the owners, PLN compensated at a lower unit
value the 8 families that were occupying government land and also provided compensation for trees and
crops on the land taken. Total compensation paid was Rp. 122 million, and all compensation was paid
prior to land taking. The resettlement community was ready for occupancy before the 36 families (144
persons) were relocated. They were moved in 1995 from wood houses with nipa grass roofs to concrete
houses (36 sq m floor area) on 40 x 35 m lots, with slow titling process -- certificates were issued in 2001
-- is the only aspect of resettlement that could have been improved, but it was beyond the control of PLN.)
Community development assistance given prior to and after resettlement, through contracts with a local
university and an NGO, included training in livestock raising, agribusiness management, fish culture, and
food and beverage production. Several of the training programs were designed for and directed to women's
groups. Sources of income/employment became more diverse, including employment of five household
heads at the plant, and 64 % of the families reported an increase in income since resettlement.
At Besai, 205.5 ha of land were acquired from 129 families -- 88 in the inundated area and 41 in the
construction area. Nearly all of the land inundated was in private ownership. Owners were offered
replacement land or cash compensation, and all opted for the latter. Nearly all of the land in the
construction sites was officially forest land being used by local residents for coffee and other crops. Users
of the forest land were offered an opportunity to participate in the Government's transmigration program
and were compensated for lost crops. Total compensation paid was Rp. 4.2 billion (US$ 1.8 million at the
1994 exchange rate). To assist communities in restoriug or improving on their previous condition, PLN
financed the Development Program for Besai Community, implemented by Watala, an NGO, with
supervision and technical assistance from the University of Lampung. Nine community self-help groups
were established, with total membership that peaked at 213 persons. The groups functioned as savings and
loan associations and channels for PLN's financial assistance to the communities. Groups received
training in organizational management, but venturing into investment in enterprises was limited by
uncertain economic conditions. Other groups were set up to distribute plants and manage land in the
greenbelt area. Community satisfaction with the development program is high, except in the area of
forestry for watershed management. That component has not achieved its objectives primarily because of
long-standing, unresolved conflict between the local residents the Forestry Department over ownership of
the forest land.
During the implementation of Besai's RAP, the issue of Dwikora village came up regarding compensation
- 10 -



for land and crops as well as formation of community groups. Its connection with Besai was limited as only
a few trees were directly affected by the construction of Besai. Actions initiated by the provincial forestry
service (Dinas Kehutanan), and supported by the provincial and district administrations, completely
disrupted the lives and livelihood of the people of Dwikora village. The claim was made that the area was
under forestry status and consequently no human settlement was allowed in the area. The claim was
strengthened with the Govemor of Lampung Decision No. 39 in 1996 to eradicate the village status of this
area. The matter was finally resolved with the concerted effort from the Bank, the NGO, and by constant
pressure from the local people, wherein the Govemor's decision was nullified. In October 1999 the
Government of Lampung issued Decision No. 99/1999 which reclaimed this area into its original status
(described in more detail in Section 10).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic crisis that affected the country in 1997 has impacted substantially the financial situation of
PLN. The sharp depreciation of the Rupiah greatly increased the cost to PLN of its US$-denominated
long-term payment obligations. These include debt services payments on foreign loans on-lend by GOI,
take-or-pay fuel supply agreements for gas and geothermal steam, and take-or-pay power purchase
agreements with IPPs. As a result, PLN has been unable to fully service its debt and to meet its payment
obligations to IPPs. The crisis has affected the availability of the local counterpart funds. To this end, the
Bank took proactive actions and amended the loan agreement to increase the disbursement percentages to
100% for a certain period of time to cover GOI/PLN cost (excluding VAT). The crisis has also affected the
contractors ability to make progress. Some contractors were forced to cut back on operations to reduce
costs, while other contractors barred overtime and delayed start of work.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Strong Government support and commitment to the Project as well as to PLN, were instrumental in
bringing the physical components of the Project to closure, with only a six month extension of the Bank
loan, despite the substantial devaluation of the Rupiah and the financial collapse of PLN. However, the
pace of sector reform has proceeded at a much lower pace than anticipated. Nevertheless, the Govermment
and PLN have shown their commitment and willingness to reform with the aim of increasing the efficiency
of the sector, by launching in August 1998 a Power Sector Restructuring Policy, which provided the
underpinning for PLN's Corporate and Financial Restructuring which is presently underway.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Effective project management by the Consultants, which was exemplarv at Banjarmasin in particular,
strong action by the PMUs. and extensive supervision by PLN and the Bank, were necessary to get this
Project through, despite the many difficulties encountered during implementation. PLN's insistence that the
Civil Works contractor at Banjarmasin change the Project Manager, which was causing major difficulties
among other contractors was in the end successful, albeit causing extensive delays in the Project, despite an
acceleration program which commenced in December 1998. Proactive action by PLN. Consultants, and
the Bank were also needed to undertake the repair work at Besai HPP in record time. Very proactive and
forceful NGO participation at both Banjarmasin SPP and Besai HPP, were essential for fostering excellent
community relations between the community of PAPs and PLN and to discuss problems (i.e. water supply
to the resettled community and maintenance of road and drainage ditches, at Banjarmasin; status of
Dwikora village at Besai), before they could cause major difficulties later.
5.4 Costs and financing:
As a result of the cost savings, the Bank loan was underutilized. To this end and as part of a broader
restructuring of the Bank portfolio for Indonesia in response to the crisis, three partial loan proceeds
- 11 -



cancellations totaling US$56 million were made respectively in August 1998, December 1999 and
December 2000. The Bank loan size was thus reduced to $204.5 million. Of which, US$ 188.8 million, or
92% of the revised loan amount, has been disbursed, and the balance of $15.7 million will be cancelled
upon closure of the loan account.
Details of the project costs and financing are available in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale Jor sust'ainability rating:
Overall, the prospects for project sustainability are uncertain, mainly based on the financial viability of
PLN, which is required to ensure an effective and efficient power sector. Nevertheless, this must be
counterbalanced by the following: First, PLN's Corporate and Financial restructuring is underway, a
technical assistance financed by the Bank (Ln 3978-IND), to turn around the critical financial viability of
the sector, including PLN's. This is expected to result in the establishment of all PLN successor
companies as legally distinct functional and financially viable entities. The unbundling of PLN is planned
to occur along functional and geographic lines. It is expected that PLN's outside Java-Bali operations will
remain in government hands once PLN has been unbundled, but cooperation with the private sector
companies will be encouraged on an open and transparent basis. Second, the demand for electricity in
Wilayah IV and VI has remained reasonably robust, despite the economic crisis in the country, which has
major impact on Java but little on outside Java in terms of electricity demand. The most recent forecasts
are for electricity sales to increase at an average annual average growth rate of in the 9-11 % range in
Wilayah IV and 4-5 % range in Wilayah IV. Both regions have a deficit of capacity and both Besai and
Banjarmasin, are meeting part of the demand requirements. Third, both Besai HPP and Banjarmasin SPP
are of good quality and have operated at high availability since commissioning. Fourth, PLN's Efficiency
Drive Program is underway, with the aim of reducing inefficiencies in operational and capital expenditures,
which are an essential part of improving the efficiency of the sector, improve the financial viability of PLN;
each of PLN business units has it own cost reduction targets which are monitored on a monthly basis by
PLN. Fifth, the GOI has recently approved measures to reduce PLN's future interest expenditures an the
electricity tariffs have been raised to increase PLN's revenue - the foreign exchange movement has also
been encouraging.
In addition to the above, the ADB has supported the power sector reform effort with technical assistance
for the establishment of a competitive electricity market. Enactment of the Electricity Law is expected in
the near future and is a condition for release of ADB's funds.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Both power plants have been transferred upon their commissioning to PLN's regional offices -- Wilayah IV
and VI respectively. Both Wilayah are at present vertically integrated regional branches of PLN,
encompassing generation, transmission and distribution. On a technical level, PLN's technical and
institutional capacities remain intact today despite the financial crisis; both of the Electricity Units in
Wilayah IV and VI units are capable of operating and maintaining these two Projects. Besai HPP is now
part of Wilayah IV electrical system which maintains and operates the plant. Similarly, Banjarmasin SPP
is now operated within the Wilayah VI electrical system, and operation and maintenance is undertaken by
the Electricity Unit of Wilayah VI. Bank missions have confirmed the availability of properly trained
operators at these plants together with comprehensive O&M manuals and procedures. In particular at
Banjarmasin, which is a highly automated plant, there is on-site technical assistance by suppliers and
operators receive continuing training in plant operation.
- 12-



Management Contracts have been introduced between the Wilayah and PLN Pusat (Headquarters) for a
number of years and they have proved to be effective in meeting mutually agreed performance criteria. In
addition, PLN's Efficiency Drive Program, is making solid improvement in plant heat rates and other
parameters. Furthermore, decentralization efforts are providing more autonomy to the Electricity Units in
planning in a coordinated fashion their vertically integrated systems. Finally, the operation of both Besai
HPP and Banjarmasin SPP, as well as the two barge mounted power plants, will be monitored through
performance indicators at regular intervals (Annex I provides details on performance indicators).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Although Bank performance at entry in designing the project as regards development objectives was flawed
(see paras 3.3 and 3.5), identification of project components and techno-economic and, in particular,
environmental assessments were satisfactorily conducted in a participatory manner, for the power plants
and the required 150 kV transmission lines. Active participation and commitment of all stakeholders
during project identification and appraisal was instrumental in seeing the Project through to completion.
The project team, comprising appropriate skill mix, built on the successful relationship developed between
the Bank, GOI and PLN during the implementation of previous projects in Indonesia. Project objectives
were consistent with Bank CAS and GOI development objectives, particularly in assisting to meet the
electricity demand in the two regions. Preparation and appraisal for the physical side of the project were
satisfactory and complete. On the policy side, the objectives were not supported explicitly, although an
implicit cross support was assumed from other concurrent loans.
Lessons leamed from previous projects, particularly Paiton (Ln 3089-IND) and Cirata (Ln 3602-IND),
were incorporated into the design of the project, particularly in allowing for close field supervision,
comprehensive environmental assessment and resettlement plans.
The loan amount was overestimated at appraisal and delays occurred for reasons that were not anticipated.
These delays were controllable and immediate action was taken by all parties concemed.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated highly satisfactory. Although the team that prepared the project could not remain the
same till project completion (with different task managers throughout Project implementation), the impact
on the continuity of project supervision has been very minor. The Bank project team comprised adequate
skills and maintained good rapport and continuing cooperation with PLN.
A total of 14 supervision missions (including the ICR mission) were fielded during the project
implementation. All supervision missions were carried out in combination with missions for other projects.
The frequency, timing, duration and skill mix of the supervision missions are considered adequate. The
supervision aide memories were well prepared with very detailed findings and recommendations recorded.
Follow-up letters were sent to the borrowers on a timely basis. Project Status Reports (PSR) were updated
on a timely basis following each supervision mission with adequate details on project status and related
ratings. The IP (Implementation Progress) was either rated "Highly Satisfactory" or "Satisfactory", while
the DO (Development Objective) rating was downgraded to "Unsatisfactory" in June 1998 due to the
financial crisis that began in mid-1997. A Management decision was taken in June 2001 to upgrade the
Indonesia portfolio based on PLN proceeding with the TA on Corporate and Financial Restructuring, with
the result that the DO ratings of Indonesia energy projects were changed to "Satisfactory". This ICR has
reviewed this decision and decided to maintain an "Unsatisfactory" DO rating based on unsatisfactory
Quality at Entry.
- 13 -



The Bank took proactive actions to broaden and deepen the scope of power sector reforns given the
opportunity presented in the crisis, and this directly resulted (with support from ADB and USAID) in the
GOI's Power Sector Restructuring Policy. Further, when it became apparent that GOI was not responding
to the Bank's concern regarding the IPP program, the Bank suspended processing of new lending (para
4.2).
The Bank also responded quickly on loan proceeds cancellations once loan savings were identified, and to
PLN's deteriorated financial situation by restructuring the Project and amending the Loan Agreement to
allow increase of the Bank loan disbursement percentage for local expenditure (excluding payment of
taxes) to 100% from July 1998 onwards, which relieved considerably the pressure on PLN to pay the
contractors. In addition, following a request from GOI in November 1997 regarding a shortfall of Japanese
financing of about US$12.7 million due to the exchange variation between the Yen and the US$, the Bank
agreed to cover the shortfall which allowed the completion of the Steam Generator & Auxiliaries and the
Coal & Ash Handling components without undue delay.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance is rated satisfactory overall.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
PLN's performance is deemed satisfactory; it was involved in all aspects of the project concept and design.
The implementation arrangements and preparation of resettlement and rehabilitation action plans, as well as
environmental assessments and social-economic/cultural studies (for Besai HEPP) were undertaken in a
timely, comprehensive and professional manner. The Project fit well into PLN's priority investment
program in the two Wilayah and was in line with the Government's overall sector strategy.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance is rated as satisfactory, although marginally so. Although counterparts
funds were made available in a timely manner except after the financial crisis when PLN financial
performance was deteriorating rapidly with the resulting additional demands on Government support for
PLN, GOI did not approve the tariff increase as required due to political sensitivity which substantially
affected PLN's financial situation; in addition, GOI was not proactive in addressing the issues of
under-capitalization of PLN or the Bank's concerns with regard to the IPP program (para 4.2).
Nevertheless, GOI reacted promptly to the requests for the cancellations of loan amounts, as well as for the
required amendments to the Loan Agreements to allow an increase of the Bank loan disbursement
percentages (para 7.2) and for loan extensions. Furthermore, although progress has been slow, the GOI's
Power Sector Restructuring Policy provides a sound framework for future power sector reform including
the eventual financial viability of the sector.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of PLN is deemed satisfactory with effective project coordination with consultants,
suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors. It reacted promptly and took charge of the situation during the
headrace tunnel collapse at Besai. It demanded a change of Manager of Civil Works at Banjarmasin which
was disrupting the Project's Master Schedule unduly. The Project Management Units (PMUs) within PLN
for the various components of the Project were identified and established at appraisal. Prior to negotiations
the Borrower had developed a detailed project implementation plan. The quality of the Borrower's
commitment and contribution to the project preparation were commendable.
- 14 -



The Project Agreement included the following covenants on overall PLN's financial performance: (a) a
minimum of 8% rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets; and (b) a minimum debt service
coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.5 times. PLN financial position deteriorated dramatically during the tenure of
the Project. Particularly since the financial crisis in 1997, PLN's profitability, liquidity, and capital
structure weakened rapidly: PLN reported an operating loss of Rp.4.7 trillion, and its net loss amounted to
Rp.24.6 trillion (or US$2.6 billion) in 2000, though mainly due to factors beyond its control (including the
financial crisis, high cost of IPPs, and GOI's unwillingness to approve required tariff increase -7 US
cents/kWh in 1996 to 3.6 US cents/kWh in 2001). As a result, PLN was unable at any time during the
Project period to fully comply with the financial covenants established for it under the Project. PLN's
morale also suffered during the latter stages of the Project.
Finally, PLN is fully committed to the implementation of the Power Sector Restructuring Policy including
the financial and corporate restructuring of its operations (para 4.2).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance can be considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
A few relevant lessons can be drawn from the Project:
*   Quick action to respond to the financial crisis in the latter stages of the Project including flexibility
by both the Bank and PLN/GOI, as well as active participation and commitment of all stakeholders
during preparation and implementation, contributed to the success of the physical components of
the Project.
*   The handling of invoices must be streamlined to avoid excessive delays in paying to contractors.
Slow invoicing by contractors was responsible for delays in disbursements which caused a
discrepancy between the status of the project works and actual disbursements.
*   Maintaining continuity of funding of the NGOs attached to the project to ensure that problems in
the communities of affected peoples are taken care of, is very important for maintaining good
community relations. NGOs must maintain an active role throughout project implementation, and
be invited to the field meetings where resettlement and land acquisition issued are discussed. They
should also participate in discussions about the project.
*   The establishment of PMUs in both projects was essential in taking timely and corrective action
when it was needed, and in coordinating the project. However centralized project management was
effective in monitoring/coordinating progress but less effective in directing change when it was
required.
*   Quick response by PLN and team Bank during the incident with the headrace tunnel at Besai was
instrumental in identifying the cause of the problem, and suitable mitigation measures as well as
implementation of the remedial works in record time.
*   The use of "rate of return on revalued assets" covenant to measure financial performance is not
appropriate for a company like PLN with a very large and lumpy investment program.
*   A programmatic approach to lending (i.e. Adaptable Program Lending) in the Energy Sector in
Indonesia would appear to be more suitable for support of longer-term policy objectives and
institution building, than the traditional approach to investment lending exemplified by this Project
and the parallel projects at the time.
More specific lessons leamed include: (i) foreign contractors must maintain capable design offices in the
country of project execution. Delays were produced when design information was sent to offshore home
- 15 -



offices. This resulted in delay of design coordination and transmission of data between contractors; (ii) the
appointment of the project manager by PLN should take place prior to the issuing of bidding documents, to
provide early focus of the strategic intent of the Project. Concurrently an experience PLN's Sektor
representative should be permanently appointed by the Project team; (iii) to enhance the transfer of
maintenance of operation skills from the Contractor to PLN Sektor, power station personnel should be
appointed and seconded to Contractors at the beginning of erection and precommissioning of the plant, and
(iv) in remote sites, such as this Project, it is important for PLN to have an incentive scheme to attract,
retain and motivate high caliber operations and maintenance personnel, to maximize the benefits of the
Project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory throughout all the phases of the project, from preparation to
completion. It is also noted that the Bank regularly fielded supervision missions during implementation,
playing a leading role in assisting PLN to complete the project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Demand Forecasts for Wilayah IV and VI
Demand forecast in Wilayah IV [most likely scenario (11 % growth rate)]
Year    Required Energy (GWh)   Peak Load   Required Capacity
Year  Required Energy (GWh)(MW)
2001               4831.6               552              704
2002               11,007               1,257            1,444
2003               12,218               1,395            1,582
2004               13,588               1,551            1,739
2005               15,170               1,732            1,919
Demand forecast in Wilayah IV [most likely scenario (5 % growth rate)].
Year    Required Energy (GWh)   Peak Load | Required Capacity
________  _ __________ _____(Ml_)              (M W )
2001                5,044               463              683
2002                5,254               516              712
2003                5406                570              733
2004                5,753               628              767
2005                6,854               695              861
Sample Emission Data from Banjarmasin
- 16 -



Indonesia Standard           Banjarmasin
(new plant)          (week of 28/9/ 2001)
Max           Avg
Particulates, mg/Nm3                150                  125           40
So2, mg/Nm3                         750                 227            107
NoX, mg/Nm3                         850                  123           94
Expenditures for Land Acquisition, Resettlement, Community Assistance
BanjarmasinThermal Power Plant:
Cate2orv                                  Expenditure
Land acquired - 187 ha total (5 ha privately owned, 182 ha owned by          112,576,193
government.
Crops and other assets acquired                                                9,641,000
Construction of resettlement community relocation and community              179,912,000
development program
Monitoring, evaluation, other implementation activities                      45,000,000
Banjarmasin subtotal                                   234,553,000
Besai Hydroelectric Power Project:
Catei!ory                                 Expenditure
Land acquired-205 ha total (102 ha privately owned, 103 ha owned by        4,151,814,604
government).
Development Program for Besai Community                                      135,000,000
Monitoring, evaluation, other implementation activities                       50,000,000
Besai subtotal
4,336,814,604
Total                                          4,571,367,604
Note: The exchange rate at the time was 2,200 Rp/US$.
- 17-



Dwikora's Village Saga.
Dwikora village was home to 474 families or about 2,000 people, and was established since 1959. In
1965, the inhabitants received a perrnit from the Forestry Department to live in this area. The village had
public facilities such as two primary schools, village office and government, two mosques and a market.
Acting without any consultation with the people of Dwikora - which had up to that time been a legally
recognized village (desa) - or informing PLN (in Jakarta or at the local project office) - officers from the
district forestry service cut down many of the tree crops (coffee, pepper, cloves, bananas, etc.) farmed by
the community and forcibly demolished houses and huts located within the plantation/forest area.
Fortunately, most of the trees cut down were close to the main road, while the majority of the productive
trees were located further from the main road. This initial assault, occurred on February 2, 1995, as part of
an operation by Dinas Kehutanan called "Jagawana" (forest protection).
The stated rationale for this action was based on the fact that Dwikora village was located within a
protected forest (hutan lindung) area; to facilitate construction of Besai HPP and to assist in protecting the
catchment (e.g. by reducing soil erosion and sedimentation) for Besai HPP. The latter two reasons are
patently false, as the village and its agricultural areas are well separated from the project site (except for
the need to construct an access road to the power house) and are sited downstream of the pondage and dam
site. However, despite the claims for legitimate and long-term occupancy of the village area and
agricultural land by the members of the community and their assertion that this land was granted to them
by President Sukarno in 1952-53 (supported by some documentation and oral history), their formal legal
status has remained moot as a result of the 1982 decision by the national government that resulted in the
wholesale realignment of forest boundaries throughout Indonesia.
On February 19, 1995 the conmmunity was informed by a circular from the head of the district (Bupati
Lampung Utara) that they would be required to vacate the area and migrate to another part of Lampung
Province, and subject to fines and/or imprisonment if they failed to cooperate. Not surprisingly, the people
refused to vacate their homes and land. This was followed in early 1996 by other circulars ordering them to
demolish their houses, closing the two primary schools in the village and disconnecting them from the
public water supply. Approximately 2,000 people were directly affected by these actions.
The Bank was informed by Watala of what was occurring in 1995 and conducted a basic investigation,
including holding discussions with members of the community, PLN and Watala. The Bank and PLN made
(informal) representations to the local government and forestry service, both to inform them that the
presence of the Dwikora community and their agricultural activities was not adversely affecting the Besai
HPP and help them understand that their actions were severely disrupting ongoing community support
programs, especially those involving people from Dwikora. In addition, PLN Jakarta made contact, again
informally, with the Department of Forestry and BAPPENAS, asking them to assist by persuading the
provincial/district forestry service to end their actions, and the local planning agency (BAPPEDA) to play
an active coordination and conciliation role.
At that time compensation activities were still in progress, and there was no suggestion that farmers from
Dwikora would not receive compensation for lost crops growing on land that was (now) officially
'protection forest'. In this respect their status and the basis for the compensation they would receive was
identical to that being negotiated with people from the other two communities: Sukapura and Way Petai.
The Bank's (and PLN's) concem, at that time, was ensuring that the support activities being conducted by
Watala would be able to continue. However, the negative social and psychological effects of the actions by
the forestry service on the people in Dwikora were such that they decided to withdraw from the programs
being conducted by Watala.
- 18 -



Thanks to the Bank and NGO actions, as well as constant pressure from local people - particularly Ms.
Nonha Sartika, in October 6, 1999, the Government of Lampung, issued decision No.99/1999 reclaiming
this areas into its original status. This decision has brought social stability for the community, and can be
considered a success story for the local community, PLN and the Bank.
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Indicators of Development Outcome/Impact
Key Indicators of Development Outcome/impact (retroactive)
Project Objectives              Performance Indicator                        Actual/Agreed Target
A. Increase private sector participation in  (i) No. of Private Plants in PLN's System.   PLN signed 26 contracts for about 11,000 MW of IPP
building generating capacity and upgrade                                      capacity. On December 22, 1998 PLN initiated its
sector operating standards and practices.                                     rationalization of its IPP program.
(ii) System Losses                     Less than 12% in 2000 in Java-Bali
(iii) Performance Contracts between   Performance contracting introduced in 1998.
Gencos and Plant Managers
B. Restructure PLN to improve its     (i) PLN to become a Persero             PLN became a Persero in 1994.
operating performance and service
efficiency
(ii) PLN to restructure and unbundle   >   PLN's Java-Bali generation assets were
separated and two generating subsidiaries were
established to own and operate the J-B system in
1995.
>   In August 1998 GOI launched its Power Sector
Restructuring Policy.
>   In 1999 PLN launched it Efficiency Drive
Programn (EDP).
>   In 2001 PLN initiated its Corporate and
Financial Restructuring.
C. Formulate and implement of          (i) Creation of a Directorate of Regulation   A Directorate of Electricity Business Supervision
regulations to promote efficiency in power                                    (DEBS) to carry the regulatory function was created in
sector operations                                                             1997.
(ii) Implementation of regulations for  >   Draft of New Electricity Law in Parliament (to
private power                              replace prevailing Electricity Law No. 15 of
1985.
>   Regulation on private power participation (i.e.
closing the window for unsolicited proposals)
introduced in 1998.
D. Introduce a formula-based periodic  (i) Establishing ETAM (Electricity Tariff   Presidential Decree introduced ETAM in October
tariff adjustment mechanism to recover  Automatic Adjustment Mechanism)       1994.
costs.
E. Other Objectives
El. Assist in financing environmental  (i) Commissioning of 2x65 MW coal-fired   Commissioning in September and December 2000.
sustainable expansion in Sumatera and  power plants in Banjarmasin in December
Kalimantan.                            1998 and March 1999.
(ii) Commissioning of 2x45MW           Commissioning in June 2001.
hydropower plants in Besai in January
2000.
(iii) Commissioning of 10 MW and3O     Commissioning in April 1997 and march 1998.
MW Barge Mounted Power Plants in
April 1997 and March 1998
E2. Assist GOI and PLN in the areas of    (i) Establishing a specialized      (i)  Done
environmental management, efficiency   Environmental Unit within PLN          (ii) Done
improvement and demand management    (ii) Promote environmental protection and   (iii) DSM component cancelled
upgrade enforcement capabilities of mine
inspection at MME
(iii) Promote Demand Management at
PLN
- 20 -



Key Perfomance Indicators during operation.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
BESAI HPP
NO              DESCRIPTION                     DESIGN              2001*
UNIT 1  UNIT 2  UNIT 1  UNIT 2
1  Capacity Factor (CF %)                     50.1      50.1     48.9     46.5
2   Average Availability Factor (AF %)         100       100     95.9     95.9
3   Annual Energy Output (GWh)                 201      201      82.7     78.8
4   Continuous Safe Operation (Days)           365      365       216      218
5   Station Services as a % of Generation (PS)  0.55    0.55      0.2      0.2
6   Dam safety Evaluation (Yearly)               5        5         0        0
7   Plant Labor Force (M MW                   15    /45 15/45    11/45    11/45
Note:
*) Monitoring period: March 2001 to 30 October 2001.
-  Unit # 2 Commissioning: March 7, 2001
-   Unit # I Commissioning: March 15, 2001
-  Modification by pass inlet Turbine Unit # 1: May 13 to 28, 2001 (16 days)
-   Modification by pass inlet Turbine Unit # 2: May I to 12 and May 17 to 18, 2001 (14 days)
- 21 -



PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
BANJARMASIN SPP
Tar t             2000                2001
No.                                           Unit I   Unit 2   Unit I  Unit 2    Unit I      Unit 2
_   Capacity Factor [CF %I                    67        67      69.2              43.4       83.6
2   Equivalent Availability Factor [EAF %]    86.8     86.8      63     76.3       55.6       83.3
3   Weighted Boiler Efficiency [%j            91.3     91.3    92.2    92.4       91.8        92.4
4   Standard Coal Consumption [g/kWhl       _                   646*    626*       638        608
5   Continuous Safe Operation [daysl          312      312                        123**      148**
6   Plant Heat Rates [KJ/kWhl                                  11715  11229.9  12355.4   11782.1
7   Plant Head Rates [Kcal/kWh_                                2800    2684       2953       2816
8   Plant labor force [man/MWI                     0.92         106/130 = 0.81     120/130 - 0.92
9   ESP Efficiency [%]                                          96.7 l  99.5       944        99 5
Note: Up to August 15, 2001.
*     The standard coal consumption is calculated with the available coal.
[HV = 19.2 [MJ/t]      coal = 37.6 [t/h]    Caloric value HHV = 4625 [kcal/kg]
Fuel heat input at 63.88 [MW] = 200.5 [MW] TG HK = 9580 [kJ/kWh]
**    The database present only a short period of commercial operation
"t**   This database are based on the available performance test result (in column 2000) and
final performance test result (in column 2001).
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
BARGE MOUNTED POWER PLANTS
Taret              2000              2001
No                                           10 MW 30 MW  10 MW 30 MW 10 MW 30 MW
_               ~~~ITEM                  ______                                 __
1  Hours of Operation per year [h]           6,000    6,500    8,784*   11,742*   2,257   2,352
2   Annual Energy Generation [GWh]             60      195      19.3**   305.1**   3,070    29.3
3   Average fuel consumption [liter/kWh]      0.25     0.29      0.25     0.27     0.24     0.3
*     Total Cumulative Operating hours up to March 12, 2000
**    Total Energy Generation up to March 12, 2001 (PLN Sektor Barito)
***'  Unit out of service during Jan-April 2001 for repair
****  Unit operation at Tarahan Site in Lampung since December 12, 2000 (PLN Sektor BD Lampung
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Besai HPP and related transmission                   143.50         123.83            86.3
Banjarmasin SPP and related transmission            261.70          238.81            91.3
Barge-Mounted Power Plants                            30.90          24.65            79.8
Engineering Service for Besai HPP                     21.80          17.91            82.2
Engineering Service for Banjannasin SPP HPP           13.20          15.15           114.7
TA for Environmental Management (GOI)                  3.10           0.09             2.8
TA for Demand Management                               2.20           0.00              0
TA for PLN's Environmental Group                       1.60            1.60            100
TA for Pilot Project (PLNs Region IV and VI)           2.70           2.65            98.1
Total Baseline Cost                                 480.70          424.69
Physical Contingencies                               55.80
Price Contingencies                                 48.60
Total Project Costs             585.10         424.69
Interest during construction  103.80
Total Financing Required             688.90          424.69
Note: The actual IDC is not available.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB          Other         N.BF.      Totl'os
1. Works                     137.80         0.00          0.00         42.90        180.70
(89.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (89.00)
2. Goods                     165.30         0.00          0.00         164.00       329.30
(137.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (137.50)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         45.80          0.00        45.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (34.00)       (0.00)       (34.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         22.70        22.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     303.10         0.00          45.80        229.60       578.50
(226.50)       (0.00)       (34.00)       (0.00)      (260.50)
Note: There is a discrepancy between the total project costs in the above two tables. According to SAR,
the first table included the expenditures for preliminary engineering and design financed under Bank loans
3602-IND for Besai and 250 1-IND for Banjarmnasin, while the second table excluded such expenditures.
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
:  Procurement Method
expe;0nditure Category  t:    : ICB               NCB       0t2                 N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                           125.51            0.00            0.00            21.47          146.98
(63.47)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (63.47)
2. Goods                           130.23            0.00            0.00            95.64          225.87
(98.27)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (98.27)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00            37.40           0.00           37.40
(0.00)          (0.00)          (27.08)          (0.00)         (27.08)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00            0.00            14.44           14.44
(0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           255.74            0.00           37.40           131.55          424.69
(161.74)         (0.00)          (27.08)          (0.00)        (188.82)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing By Component (US$ million)
Project                      A praisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Component         IBRD   JBIC  Exp. Cr. GOVPLN   Total   IBRD    JBIC  Exp.Cr GOIMPLN   Total
Besai Hydro Power           _     ___                                  44.29           38.69    40.85   123.83
Banjarmnasin Thenmal Power              l                 r            93.79   56.94            88.08   238.81
Barge Mounted Plants                                                   23.67                     0.98    24.65
TA                                      127.07                                                  10.32    37.40
Total                      266.8   23.7    92.0    306.4   688.9   188.82   56.94   38.69   140.24   424.69
Note: IBRD amount at appraisal included $6.3 m from previous Bank loans.
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Sumaters and Kalimantan Power Project
Calculation of EiRR for the Banjarmasin Thermal Power Plant ( 1994- 2001)
(US$: Million)
Year  Operational Plant    T&D   Total    O&M   Fuel        Tota         Inerernental    Totai     Tariff   C            Total    Benefits - Costs
Year   Cost    Cost   Capital   Cost   Cost        Cost          Generation     Sales    Revenue    Surplus    Benefit        Net
Cost                                      GWh         (GWh)                                         Benefit
a       b       a+b      c       d         a+b+e+d                                  e e        f        e+f
1994      -6    0.66      0.00   0.66                       0.66                                                  0.00                     -0.663
1995      -5    2.78      0.00   2.78                       2.78                                                  0.00                     -2.782
1996      -4    3.90      0.00    3.90                      3.90                                                  0.00                     -3.899
1997      -3    14.75    0.00    14.75                      14.75                                                 0.00                    -14.75
1998      -2     104.80   8.93    113.73                    113.73                                                0.00                   -113.728
1999      -I    74.90    17.57  92.47                       92.47                                                 0.00                    -92.471
2000       0     52.16            52.16            1.17     53.33               117.00     97.11       2.91       2.54      5.46          -47.874
2001       1                               5.08    7.84     12.92               784.42    651.07      19.53       17.06    36.59           23.667
2002       2                               5.08    7.84      12.92              784.42    651.07      26.04       17.06    43.10           30.178
2003       3                               5.08    10.19    15.27              1,019.20    845.94     42.30      22.16     64.46           49.1
2004       4                               5.08    10.19    15.27              1,019.20    845.94     50.76      22.16     72.92           57.649
2005       5                               5.08    10.19    15.27              1,019.20    845.94     59.22      22.16     81.38           66.108
2006       6                               5.08    10.40    15.48              1,019.20    845.94     59.22      22.16     81.38           65.904
2007       7                               5.08    10.60    15.68              1,019.20    845.94     59.22      22.16     81.38           65.69
2008       8                               5.08    10.82    15.90              1,019.20    845.94     59.22      22.16     81.38           65.484
2009       9                               5.08    11.03    16.11              1,019.20    845.94     59.22      22.16     81.38           65.268
2010      10                               5.08    11.25    16.33              1,019.20    845.94     59.22      22.16     81.38           65.047
2011      11                               5.08    9.61      14.69              853.71    708.58      49.60       18.56    68.17           53.472
2012      12                               5.08    9.80     14.88               853.71    708.58      49.60      18.56     68.17           53.282
2013      13                               5.08    10.00    15.08               853.71    708.58      49.60       18.56    68.17           53.083
2014      14                               5.08    10.20    15.28               853.71     708.58     49.60       18.56    68.17           52.883
2015      15                               5.08    10.41     15.49              853.71     708.58     49.60       18.56    68.17           52.679
2016      16                               5.08    10.62    15.69               853.71    708.58      49.60       18.56    68.17           52.471
2017      17                               5.08    10.83    15.91               853.71    708.58      49.60      18.56     68.17           52.259
2018      18                               5.08    11.04    16.12               853.71    708.58      49.60       18.56    68.17           52.042
2019      19                               5.08    11.27    16.34               853.71     708.58     49.60       18.56    68.17           51.821
2020      20                               5.08    11.49    16.57               853.71     708.58     49.60       18.56    68.17           51.596
2021      21                               5.08    8.74      13.82              636.81     528.55     37.00       13.85    50.85           37.026
2022      22                               5.08    8.92      14.00              636.81     528.55     37.00       13.85    50.85           36.851
2023      23                               5.08    9.10      14.17              636.81     528.55     37.00       13.85    50.85           36.673
2024      24                               5.08    9.28      14.36              636.81     528.55     37.0        13.85    50.85           36.491
2025      25                               5.08    9.46     14.54               636.81    528.55      37.0       13.85     50.85           36.30
Salvage Value              33.6            33.59
EliRR witb consumer surplus                        .14.4%
- 25 -



_ tX s o i ri o si000                            0 000.~m wt0                     r.e   ONterlCe          x'
m~~~~~m
.;do            CD       ~       ~       ~       ~        0     0000          0000
C u
u                                                                                                                     9
8         8    
29 e
u  3                         N  o W              N              N N N N N N N N N 0000000000
fi ff~i  Q_NtemmVo t*+w+tMtttmooo
= B O g o a ~~~~~~00000000  ue X Xe XXXo    oB 
*          4-u                      f  NN             00E    en 3e 0000 C_   _N   N _O  '__
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~--000 cN -0   ('0000(D0    00
a~ o'0>---Ot-
cn~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0    N en _0 00 00 N 00 Ce 0 - L                                            n
i  ; u U; s . t _ 9 2~~~N C' N    N                                                  N 
>   fiOs>   >Ohx# o 0  0 00000 00 000000                                    0 ~  000 0 i8 >



Assumptions for Banjannasin EIRR
Year   S/kWh
1. Expected Tanffs:    2000    0.03
2001     0.03
2002    0.04
2003     0.05
2005    0.06
2006-    0.07
2. O&M costs:        2% of the plants' capital costs
3. Fuel costs:       S 0.01/kWh and escalated 2% after 2005
4. Total Losses      17%
5. Salvage Value     33.6 million (Land, buildings, other assets, etc.)
6. IDC               3.5%
Years
7. Annual Energy Production:    Load %   1-2     3-10      11-20         21-25
100     5730    7640       6367          4457
50      608      400        400          883
0       701     480        480           544      Yearly Inspection
0      1721     240        1513         2887      Outage
8. Fuel Costs        95.7 Rp/kWh
0.01 $/kWh
9. Example for fuel cost evaluation (Sept 2001)
Total Production                            50,981,500 kWh
Total Fuel Cost                             Rp 4.800,431,269 or $ 508,378.26
10. Consumer surplus evaluated on the basis of 196.5 Rp/kWh or 2.62 USc/kWh
- 27 -



Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project
Calculation of EIRR for the Besai Hydro Power Plant ( 1993- 2001)
(US$: thousand)
Year Operational  Plant   O&M    Total   Incremental    Total      Taniff   Consumer   Total   Benefits-Costs
Year     Cost    Cost    Cost   Generation    Sales    Revenue   Surplus   Benefit          Net
GWh       (GWh)                                      Benefit
a       b      a+b                               e          f        e+f
1993     -7        3,467             3,467                                                              -3,467
1994     -6        9,434             9,434                                                              -9,434
1995     -5        9,805             9,805                                                              -9,805
1996     -4       15,087            15,087                                                             -15,087
1997     -3       11,206            11,206                                                             -11,206
1998     -2       35,886            35,886                                                             -35,886
1999     -l       20,196            20,196                                                             -20,196
2000      0       22,151     709    22,860                                                             -22,860
2001      1       14,508     709    15,217         402    349.74     10,492     9,164    19,656          4,439
2002      2                  709       709         402    349.74     10,492     9,164    19,656         18,947
2003      3                  709       709         402    349.74     13,990     9,164    23,154         22,445
2004      4                  709       709         402    349.74     17,487     9,164    26,651         25,942
2005      5                  709       709         402    349274     20,984     9,164    30,148         29,439
2006      6                  709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2007      7                  709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2008      8                  709       709         402    349.24     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2009      9                  709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2010      10                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2011      11                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2012      12                 709       709         402    349274     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2013      13                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2014      14                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2015      15                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2016      16                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2017      17                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2018      18                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2019      19                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2020      20                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2021      21                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2022      22                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2023      23                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2024      24                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2025      25                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
2026      26                 709       709         402    349.74     24,482     9,164    33,646         32,937
EIRR with consumer surplus                       13.8%
- 28 -



Sumatera and Kalimantan Power Project
Calculation of EIRR for the Besai Hydro Power Plant ( 1993- 2001)
(US$: thousand)
Year Operational  Plant   O&M    Total   Incremental    Total      Tariff   Consumer   Total   Benefits - Costs
Year     Cost    Cost    Cost   Generation    Sales    Revenue   Surplus   Benefit          Net
GWh       (GWh)                                      Benefit
a      b       a+b                               e          f       e+f
1993     -7        3,467             3,467                                                              -3,467
1994     -6        9,434             9,434                                                              -9,434
1995     -5        9,805             9,805                                                              -9,805
1996     -4       15,087            15,087                                                             -15,087
1997     -3       11,206            11,206                                                             -11,206
1998     -2       35,886            35,886                                                             -35,886
1999     -1       20,196            20,196                                                             -20,196
2000      0       22,151     709    22,860                                                             -22,860
2001      1       14,508     709    15,217        402    349.74      10,492              10,492         -4,725
2002      2                  709       709        402    349.74      10,492              10,492          9,783
2003      3                  709       709        402    349.74      13,990              13,990         13,281
2004      4                  709       709        402    349.74      17,487              17,487         16,778
2005      5                  709       709        402    349.74      20,984              20,984         20,275
2006      6                  709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2007      7                  709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2008      8                  709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2009      9                  709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2010      10                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2011      11                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2012      12                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2013      13                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2014      14                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2015      15                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2016      16                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2017      17                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2018      18                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2019      19                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2020      20                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2021      21                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2022      22                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2023      23                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2024      24                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2025     25                  709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
2026      26                 709       709        402    349.74      24,482              24,482         23,773
EIRR without consumer surplus                     9.9%
- 29 -



Assumptions for Besai EIRR
1. Construction costs includes transmission and distribution costs
2. Transmission and distribution losses about to 13%
3. O&M costs are assuned to en equal to 0.5% of total construction costs
4. Consumer surplus is assumed to be about 2.62 USc/kWh
5. Tariffincrease from 0.03 $/kWh in 2001 to 0.07 $/kWh in 2006.
6. Price for kerosene is 600 Rp/liter with a expected usage of 72.7 liter/month/household equivalent or 14.4 kWh
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
4/92                          3   Engineers
3   Financial Analyst
I   Operations Officer
I   Environmental Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/93                         2   Engineers
2   Consultants
I   Financial Analyst
I   Resettlement Speicalist
Supervision
3/95                           1   Engineer                            HS             HS
I   Resettlement Specialist
9/95                           1   Engineer                             S              S
3/96                          2   Engineer                              S              S
11/96                         2   Engineers                             S              S
4/97                           1   Engineer                             S              S
7/97                          1   Engineer                              S              S
11/97                         1   Engineer                              S              S
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Resettlement Specialist
I   Sector Coordinator/Advisor
I   Economist
7/98                          1   Engineer                              S              S
I   Hydro/Resettlement Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist
12/98                         1   Engineer                              S             U
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Financial Specialist
4/99                          1   Implementation Specialist             S              U
I   Engineer
I   Financial Analyst
I   Operations Officer
9/99                          1   Sr. Project Specialist                S              U
2/00                          1   Project Implementation and            S              U
Procurement Specialist
I   Engineer
1/01                          I   Engineer                              S              U
I   Operations Officer
I   Financial Analyst
ICR
S             U
- 31 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               185.7                        767.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                     55.5                        221.9
Supervision                              110.9                       495.1
ICR                                       11.6                         47.0
Total                                    363.7                      1,484.1
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
F Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
X Institutional Development              0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
D Gender                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
OI Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Private sector development             0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
EL Other (Please specify)                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                        *HSOS   O  u  O HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
  Government implementation performance             O HS OS   0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS   0 U  0 HU
X Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD to Executive Directors
2. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
3. Project Aide-Memoires.
4. Consultants Completion Reports for Besai HPP (Nippon Koei) and Banjarmasin SPP (Electrowatt
Engineering Services)
5. PLN Audited Financial Statements (1994-2001)
6. Final Executive Summary, Consulting Services for the Constitution of Electricity Units in Region TV
and VI, Coopers and Lybrand, November 1997
7. Final Report of the Joint Office of Surface Mining (US-OSM)/Bureau of Environment and Technology
(Ministry of Mines and Energy), Consulting Service for Mining Environmental Policy in Indonesia, OSM,
November 1999.
8. Final Executive Summary, Consulting Services for Strengthening PLN's Environmental Management
Capabilities, Lahmeyer International and PT Jaya CM Manggala Pratama, December 1998.
9. Environmental Impact Assessment of Banjarmasin Mine Mouth Coal Steam Power Plant, PLN, April
1994.
10. Resettlement Plan of Banjarmasin Mine Mouth Coal Steam Power Plant, PLN, November 1993.
11. Resettlement Plan of Besai Hydroelectric Power Project, PLN, May 1994.
12. Environmental Impact Assessment of Besai Hydroelectric Power Project, PLN, 1994.
13. Social-Economic/Cultural Study, Besai HEPP, July 1993.
14. Initial Environmental Examination of 150 kV Transmission line from Banjarmasin SPP to Cempaka
Substation and Trisakti Substation, PLN, May 1993.
15. Summary of Activities, Community Development Project for Besai Community, Research Institute of
University of Lampung (Lembaga Penelitian Universitas Lampung), June 1998.
16. Borrower's Completion Reports for Besai, Banjarmasin, and Barge Mounted Power Plants.
17. Bank's ICR Aide-Memoire
- 35 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 25506R1
INDONESIA
MYANMAR                                                                                                                                                              PLN REGIONS
~~~  VI~~~~~~~TNEAtA ~~~~~~~~~~~PA CIFIC                                                                Ml PL'   AA NUMBERS
Gulf of    . -             i  -    . .             :                    .   .,    PHILIPPINES                                                   -     WILAYAH BOUNDARIES
Thailand        ,     >, '-          .                    . .     .                                             C E A  N'  PROVINCE HEADC QUARTERS
THAILAND                    >-- . -. i -;              : o    : : :: -          - -        Suluh .           :                                                *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
,T.H.AIL-A-:N.-D- ..                               : .        _ ^hsl^eose0ORI  Sea                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r~~~~~ -                                          -                    '      7     -      I:tj l-,.t,.-
/  ~~~    1A~~Y   & ~              BRUNEI7
Modon                        /  ~~~~~~~~~  (~~~'~~~  ~~             Ce~elebes             Tku
NJ ; 2 t 5e(7 > 3 ti ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13Y   
Nieuu          -K                                                                                            e
/   , . i- ME    rVt4        v    KALI ANTAN              od    1         ,:/ ;ec
o Siber ,t          J o ' sbi                                    VI                          ViI      P                 0ii
3o  WMATERA/Q ---,t'            s       PaIngaro                      SU                    Sus. P  *              Mtisol              Yapen      <
S  o |        * @I Palen ,  -t ;PeY        t /l                             Vil                                   Ce Xp r                                Uum--.  
P#swrPfoet  0Koudori                                          ~~~~PAPUA
;engwIv g                                          sric  s " ".......io     I .                        Buru 0n o-                             (I RIAN  JAYA1
I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-X      f r 0  N / r  DO1,          N  fE  S                    1                         KtI A s eo'
;    -4@  5-AWA JAWA                                                           Wefur       Bobar    -    , oimb r
L' -          ;' -~~ -  -t                 t       .             .    ,   -         _
EAST TIMOR
S.osbo            r :imor                        Arafura  Seo
IND1                                                       O E AN
Gulf Of
Carpentoark
O  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wo EppoSo  SHMa -nL~ pRr aR. W'nrlnaas.   .-ii
:  . .:,~~~~dor'   .aIi .:ro  T. ,r IdA0teakoxw.ssttaS hloj af
mR.  e h rHl=yar.rnrer             ,                         -. *                        A  U  S T  R A  L I A
DECEMEER 2001






IBRD 25507R1
Im                         THAIIL
NGON! LSEU E  DIE   . :         W--
~~~~P. UNDANJ                             
ss)NXilr6 / tMALAYSIA (-Do hn
Sout  China
Si~~~~~~~~~e
HPP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA P
A~~SMTR  AN   KALIMATA                                                                                tPADANGKANAR '\WW
-- -3 TRANSMNSSION L_ES N
e , ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. K-UAM                                                                   )I
W  '                                                                              <     BUKIT KEMUfAt"NMCW  S
-        a       -              THNERMA POWER     ST  E  R                                       4
*SX'''',,\:;.',,;-',,: ;-, .    H.'YDRNOPOWERROPOSED  P - -   -    . - A  . -  --TS  -:A_GK
PIN W A BOSIOWES                 M=p Desin Uit :f -e Wo-                                          d -  nk.
g42~~~~~- .    -NENfOA BOUN-DAHRtIbOES   tIANs m:  -f n- :~y :n .b po- of0:
,. ir 6 +nr, r ,,  f                                             .~~~~~~ :0 20    3 , 40    M( STA.     o h World Ban  ru,an ugetk
!-<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o t' lel gIAYP                                                stor., f nyterioE,
DECEMBER 2001






IBRD 25508R1
IlNDONESIA
SUMATERA AND KAIIMANTAN                                   PROJECT
PLN REGIONS V AND VI MAIN TRANM                         N
ONl-        PROPSED
EXISTING  GOING  FUIURE  PROJEa.
TRANSMISSION LINES
A       A           ~~~~~~~SUBSTATIONS
-       -           ~~~~~~~THERMAL POWER PLANTS
*              Ss  *       HYORO POWER PLANT
BRU,    
PIN WILAYAH BOUNDARIES
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
South  China
Sea
MALAYSIA
'~~~ I                           ...i 
t J'BAS      '                     '        /
SINGKAWANG
PAM  BARU        V
SLANTAN
SI RAYA I 
KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
1 10~~~~~                                  115~P. GK
BMASIN~~~~~~~~~~ECMER20



