Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFI(lAl. SE ONLY
Report No. 12211-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
JUNE 3, 1994
7- \ 1t7  4.1
Energy and Infracstructure Operations Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipient only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(ao of January 1994)
US$ 1.00              Tk 40.07
Taka (Tk) 1.00   -   US$ 0.0250
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 centimeter (cm)     =  0.394 inch
1 hectare (ha)        =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.621 mile
1 liter (lt)             0.264 gallon
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (ml)      10.76 square feet
1 c.ubic meter (Wnl)     35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE          -    Additional Chief Engineer
ADB          -    Asian Development Bank
BR           -    Bangladesh Railways
BRRL         -    Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory
BRTA         -    Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
BRTC         -    Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation
BTSS         -    Bangladesh Transport Sector Study Project (BGD/89/036)
BUET         -    Bangladesh University of Engineering and Tec.-iology
CCDB         -    Christian Commission for Development in Bangladesh
DC           -    Deputy Commissioner
EIRR         -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOB          -    Government of Bangladesh
HDM          -    Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model/version III
ICB          -     International Competitive Bidding
IEB          -     Institution of Engineers of Bangladesh
IMSCT        -     Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee for Transport
IWT          -     Inland Water Transport
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
LGED         -    Local Government Engineering Department
MOC          -    Ministry of Communications
NGO          -    Non-Governmental Organization
NPV          -    Net Present Value
ODA          -    Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PCWD         -    Project Civil Works Director
RAP          -    Resettlement Action Plan
RHD          -    Roads and Highways Department
RMP          -    Road Master Plan
RMSS         -    Road Materials and Standards Study
RRMP-I       -    Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr.1827-BD)
RRMP-II      -    Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
RRTD         -    Roads and Road Transport Division
SBD          -     Standard Bidding Document
SOE          -     Statement of Expenditure
TA           -    Technical Assistance
TOR          -    Terms of Reference
TYRIP        -    Three Year Rolling Investment Program
UNDP         -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit and 2roject Summarv
Borrower:      People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:        SDR 103.9 mnillion (US$ 146.8 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project
Descrintion:   The project will assist the Roads anid Highways Department
(RED) to initiate physical implementr-ion of the Road Master
Plan for the main road network in Bangladesh, thus preserving
the capital base of the road system and improving high
priority sections in a systematic manner. The 4-year time
slice financed under the project includes about 168 km of
rehabilitation, 100 km of widening to 2-lane standard and
1,800 '.an of periodic maintenance (mainly asphalt concrete
overlajs and some resealing) in areas west of the Jamuna. The
projec: will also enhance the country's institutional and
technical capacity to operate and maintain the main road
network through (a) technical assistance for programming and
supervising the project road works and for carrying out
feasibility studies and other preparation activities for
future road construction and improvement works, and (b) an
institutional development program, comprising consultancy
services, twinning arrangements, officer and staff training,
research and associated equipment, for RHD and other road.
agencies. While integrating and building upon past technical
assistance, the primary focus will be improved planning,
management and implementation of road works in the subsector.
Benefits
and Risks:     The main project benefit will be a reduced total cost of road
transport on Bangladesh's most travelled roads. An important
additional benefit is development of the country's self-suffi-
ciency in managing its road network. The main technical risks
include delays in project implementation and failure to
implement the optimal maintenance program. The first has been
mitigated by signature of the supervisory consultant and first
year maintenance contracts and invitation of bids for the
rehabilitation works before Board presentation, and completion
of joint verificatian of land and other property to be
acquired under the project before credit effectivenesa. As
for the second, the supervisory consultant will work closely
with RED staff in preparing the annual program using the
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model and in
implementing it. On the institutional side, the main risks
are over-dependence on consultants, ineffective and slow
implementation of the institutional development program, and
lack of motivation on the part of RHD staff. RHD staff will
be integral members of the supervisory consultant's team and
will be given increasing responsibility as the project
progresses. The institutional development program will begin
with a skills gap assessment; a Review Committee has been
established in the Ministry to oversee program implementation.
|    document has a resticted distribution and ruay be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
In an effort to maximize the program's effectiveness, various
safeguards have been incorporated, such as minim-am criteria
for staff as specialist's counterparts, initiatives to
motivate staff, and milestone achievement and target handover
dates for key tasks. Involvement of local institutions
outside the Ministry will enhance its sustainability. Close
supervision by IDA/ODA and a joint mid-term review will also
help to keep the overall project on track.
Proiect Costs:
Local       Fcreign       Tot-l
----US$ million -           --3
Road Works
Rehabilitation/Widening                  39.5         31.2         70.7
Periodic Maintenance                     66.8         58.8        115.7
Preparation/Implementation Support           6.0          5.7         1  8
Institutional Development                    1.1          7.1          8.2
Base Cost                                  113.4        103.0        2l6.4
Physical Contingencies                      12.7         10.3         23.0
Price Contingencies                          6.6          6.2         12.8
Total Prcject Cost a/                   132.7        119.         252.2
Financinq Plan:
Local       Foreiqn       Total
-----------US$ million---------
IDA                                         35.5        111.3        146.8
ODA b/                                       0.6          8.2          8.8
GOB                                         96.6           -          96.6
Total                                   132.7        119.5        52.2
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year        FY95     FYMU     FY97      FY98     FY99      FY00
[-----------------(US$ Million)-----------------]
Annual                 24.7     32.2      38.1     30.8     17.5       3.5
Cummulative            24.7     56.9      95.0    125.8    143.3    146.8
Economic Rate of Return:  The weighted average EIRR for the overall project is
27%. The EJRR for the rehabilitation and widening
works is 22t and 25%, respectively, and for the
periodic maintenance program 34%.
Poverty Categoro: Not applicable.
t, Total project cost net of duties and taxes (USS 27.6 million) is USS 224.6 million. Totals may not add
due to rounding.
py An allocation of up to 6.4 miflion pounds sterling (about USS 9.5 million) of British grant assistance
over four years for the project's institutional development program has been approved.



- iii -
BANGLADESH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VLCOND ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pacte No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
I.        THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  The Transport  System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  Public  Expenditure  for Transport   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  4
C.  Institutional Arrangements  and Government  Policies   . . . .                                  5
D.  Development  Strategy  for the Transport  Sector                      . . . . . .               6
E.  IDA's Role  and Assistance  Strategy  for  the Transport  Sector                                7
II.       THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.  The Road System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    8
B.  Road Conditions  and Standards  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                   9
C.  Road Traffic  and Transport    ...  .                  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  11
D.  Road Administration             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         13
E.  Road Expenditures  and Revenues    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                15
P.  Development  Strategy for the Road Subsector  . . . . . . . .                                 17
G. IDA's Role  ana Assistance Strategy  for the Road Subsector                                    19
III.      THE PROJECT
A.  kroject Background   ...  .                .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .   .  .  .  .   .   .  .     .  ^3
B.  Project Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                     24
C. Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                       24
D.  Project Costs  and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                     27
E.  Project Engineering  and  Status of  Preparation  . . . . . . .                               29
F.  Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 30
G.  Procurement               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           32
H.  Disbursemernts            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           35
I.  Environmental  Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 35
J.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  36
K.  Reporting  and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 38
L.  Project Monitoring and Supervision   . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  39
rv.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A.  Economic  Evaluation            ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  40
B.  Project Risks             . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           42
V.        AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in March 1993 and subsequent follow-up missions.
Mission members included Ms. J. Koch (Mission Leader) and Mr. S. Lundcbye (Transport Engineer)--SAIEI; Messrs. A.
8anerjee (Operations Officer) and M. Quazi (Program Officer)--SAiHG; Mr. A. Byl (Transport Economist)--ASTIN; Ms.
R. Jayewardene (Resettlement Specialist) and Mr. A. Jerve (Anthropologist)--ASTHR; and Messrs. R. Armijo (Civil
Engineer/HDM Specialist) and J. Rolt (Civil Engineer/institutional Specialist) and R. Weatherell (Civil
Engineer/Institutional Specialist)--Consultants. The Division Chief (SAIEI) ard Director (SAI) are,
respectively, Ms. M. Garcia-Zamor and Mrs. A. Hamilton. Peer reviewers included Messrs. C. Hoban (TWUTD), G.
Therskan (MN2tN) and S. Berkiman (AFTHR), who reviewed technical, economic and institutional aspects,
mespectively. Secretarial support was provided by Ymes. P. Reed and R. Baba.



- iv -
Pace No.
TABLES
1.1    Output and Modal Shares in Passenger and Freight Transport           2
3.1    Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      28
3.2    Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      29
3.3    Summary of Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      33
4.1    Summary of NPV and EIRR Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      42
ANNEXES
1.1    Policy and Institutional Reform Matrix
2.1    Bangladesh Road Network in 1990
2.2    Road Master Plan Study - Summary
2.3    Size of Vehicle Flee. in Bangladesh, 1988-91
2.4    Cross-Section Standards for RHD Roads
2.5    Road Accidents in Bangladesh, 1983-92
2.6    Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
2.7    Roads and Highways Department
2.8   Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory
2.9    Roads and Highways Department Staffing, April 1994
2.10   Overview of Recent Technical Assistance to RHD
2.11   Actual Capital and Recurrent Expenditures of RHD, FY86-93
2.12   Actual and Projected Development, Maintenance and Ferry Expenditures of
RHD, FY86-99
3.1    Project Details
3.2    Terms of Reference: Supervisory Consultant for RRMP-II Road Works
3.3   Overview of Institutional Development Program
3.4    Terms of Reference: Twinning/Consultancy Team for Institutional
Development Program
3.5    Project Components by Year
3.6    Financing Plan
3.7    RHD Organization for Project Implementation
3.8    Project Implementation Schedule
3.9    Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
3.10   Disbursement Schedule
3.11   Summary of Project Environmental Analysis
3.12   Land Acquisition and Resettlement
3.13   Project Progress Reporting Requirements
3.14   Project Supervision
4.1    Economic Analysis
5.1    Selected Documents Available in Project File
MAP    Bangladesh: Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(IBRD) 24202



BANGLADESH
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION EU m1AINTENANCE PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.1       Bangladesh's surface transport system is severely constrained by
geography and climate, and air transport has so far had limited impact. The
country consists mainly of a flat alluvial plain, criss-crossed by rivers,
including three of the world's larg-st rivers, the Padma, Jamuna (called the
Ganges and Brahmaputra, respectively, in India) and Meghna, which reach the
sea together as the Padma and are major obstacles for east-west transport in
the country.
1.2       Transport intensities in Bangladesh are lower than in many
neighboring countries, but Bangladesh has witnessed a rapid growth in
transport demand since the mid-1970s--more than 8% per annum (p.a.) for
passengers and 6% p.a. for freight traffic. Demand for road transport has
increased at an even faster pace of about 10t p.a. This compares with a GDP
growth of some 4% p.a. over the same period. Bangladesh's personal mobility
level is still less than half that of India and only one sixth that of
Thailand. Transport requirements are expected to intensify further as the
country continues to move from a s'ibsistence to a more market-based economy.
1.3       IDA, together with the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and supported
by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), embarked on a major review
of the transport sector in 1989 to assess recent developments and improve
coordination among transport sector investments.  Detailed discussion of the
transport sector, resulting from this review, can be found in Bangladesh:
Transport Sector Review (Report No. 9414-BD, June 25, 1991). A policy and
institutional reform matrix drawn from the report is given in Annex 1.1; it
outlines the main findings and recommendations of the review and status of
actions taken to date. Further analysis is also continuing under the UNDP-
funded, IDA-executed Bangladesh Transport Sector Study (BTSS) pzjject (BGD/89/
036); a Resident Advisor was appointed in August 1992 to assist the Planning
Commission's Infrastructure Division with implementation of the BTSS project.
A. The Transport System
1.4       The relative roles of transport modes in Bangladesh are evolving,
with road transport expanding at the expense mainly of the railways,
particularly for freight (Table 1.1). Inland water transport (IWT) plays a
comparatively important rile in passenger (passenger-km) and freight (ton-km)
traffic (15% and 30% respectively), although road traffic (69% and 59%
respectively) is growing most rapidly. Rail traffic (16% of passenger and 11*
of freight transport) is mainly carried over some 1,900 kilometers (km) of
meter gauge track in the eastern and northwestern parts of the country. The
900 km of broad gauge track in the west has lost importance because the
original generator of its traffic, the port of Calcutta (India), has been
largely replaced by the Bangladesh ports of Chittagong and Mongla. Private
carriers dominate the road and water transport networks, while the railway is
government-owned and heavily subsidized.



- 2 -
Table 1.1: Output and Modal Shares in Passenger and Freight Transport
Passenger                    Freight
Total      Mode Shares     Total       Mode Shares
Pass-km    Road IWT Rail    Ton-Km   Road IWT Rail
(in billions)   - -------   (in billions)  -------X
Estimated for 1979   17       54  16  30        2.6      35  37  28
Estimated for 1985   35       64  16  20        4.8      48  35  17
Estimated for 1989   57       68  1r  17        6.3      59  30  11
Estimated for 1991   61       69  15  16        7.0      59  30  11
Forecast for 2000   >100      70  15  15       9-10      60  30  10
Source: BTSS p.oject.
1.5       The traditional forms of transport (wind, animal and human power)
continue to play a very intportant role in water and road transport.  They
consist mainly of sailboats and rafts (country boats), bullock and human-
pulled carts, cycle rickshaws and some bicycles.  Motorized ricksha"'E  and
motorcycles are also growing in number. The congestion created by these
traditional vehicles and their impact on the overall speed of modern traffic
is a serious problem, particuilarly in the urban areas. At the same time, the
traditional modes of transport account for about 75% of the value added, 85*
of employment and 30t of vehicle assets employed in the domestic transport
sector and are environmentally least polluting. Under the Dhaka Integrated
Transport Study (UNDP-funded, GOB-executed) which is now near completion,
studies have been carried out to help reduce urban traffic congestion through
better traffic management and enforcement and special lanes for slow vehicles.
1.6       Road.  Road transport in Bangladesh has been very dynamic.  The
paved road network was a mere 600 km in 1947, when the part of Bengal which
today forms Bangladesh separated from India to become East Pakistan. In 1971,
when the former East Pakistan became Bangladesh, the paved road network had
grown to 4,000 km; today it is more than 13,000 km. The unpaved network is
over 150,000 km; however, much of it becomes impassable during the long (July-
September) monsoon season, which in a somewhat compensatory manner expands the
inland water transport network from about 5,200 km to 8,300 km. Under the
influence of better roads and aggressive private truckers, freight and
passenger volumes carried by road have nearly doubled in the 1980s, reaching
some 20 million tons and 250 million passengers per year, respectively.
However, further growth is likely to be constrained by the high cost of
developing and maintaining a road network in a country where most roads are
built on embankments, the main network has a bridge every three kilometers and
a drainage structure every kilometer and essential road building materials
such as stone aggregates are non-existent. The road network and main issues
facing its future development are discussed in detail in Chapter II.
1.7       Rail.  The 2,800 km dual gauge rail system is fully publicly owned
and operated. The difference in gauge and the Jamuna river ferry crossings
substantially increase operating costs and turnaround time of equipment.
Traffic on the railways declined substantially in the 1980s from about 90 mil-
lion passengers and 3 million tons of freight to about 50 million passengers
and 2.5 million tons of freight, while the country's population grew by more
than 20*. In recent years, Bangladesh Railways (BR) has incurred a net loss
on the order of Tk 1.5 billion per year and has covered less than 70% of its
operating costs.
1.8       BR's large deficit and the high level of direct and indirect
government subsidies is probably the single biggest issue facing GOB in the
transport sector. In an effort to arrest this deteriorating trend and turn



- 3 -
the railway subsector's performance around, GOB has begun to implement key
elements of a Rail Recovery Program, formulated with donor assistance, aimed
at restoring BR's financial viability and creating a corporate environment
which will enable rail to compete with other transport modes in cost and
quality of service i.i the present market. The Program includes tariff
adjustments and improved collections, replacement of open-ended subsidies with
explicit subsidies for uneconomic but essential services, labor force
reduction, organizational restructuring, rationalization of services and
facilicies, and sale of surplus assets. These same key areas are identified
in IDA's Transport Sector Review, and as indicated in Annex 1.1, action has
been initiated on several fronts, including a 14% tariff increase in FY93, a
reduction in staff of some 8,300 (out ot 55,000) by end-FY93 through voluntary
separation and attrition with further reductions planned in FY94, introduction
by GOB of a public service obligation plan for BR, closing of two branch lines
and elimination of 40 daily passenger trains. The Asian Development Bank
(ADB) has traditionally assisted the rail subsector in Bangladesh and in 1993
negotiated a loan to support implementation of the Rail Recovery Program; the
loan is expected to be approved in 1994. ADB-funded technical assistance to
assist GOB in implementing institutional and organizational reforms within BR
also commenced in early 1994.
1.9       Inland Waterways and Ports.  Inland waterways continue to play a
relatively important role in the Bangladesh transport system, given the
network's extensiveness and the regularly occurring floods which disrupt the
other surface modes. Over time, however, the i-avigable network has been
shrinking due to siltation and reduction in the amount of water available
during the dry season. The inland waterways system includes some eight major
and over 103 minor ports. Most of these ports are impaired by inadequate
facilities for mooring and unloading vessels and for storage of goods, as well
as by siltation of approach channels. These problems are compounded by the
unpredictability of the rivers, which often change course, erode embankments
and generally endanger fixed riverfront infrastructure. Substantial increases
in budgetary allocations for dredging and in the productivity of the dredging
fleet are needed, with resources concentrated on the most important (Class I
and II) waterways; extension of waterways' dredging to the northeast is also
needed to facilitate transport of construction materials, which are a scarce
resource found mainly in this area. These and other issues pertaining to the
IWT subsector, identified during the recent Transport Sector Review (Annex
1.1), are being addressed under IDA's Third Inland Water Transport Project
(IWT-III/Cr. 2232-BD) which has been prepared with considerable bilateral
assistance (Finland, Netherlands, Japan, U.K. and U.S.). Due to prolonged
delays in appointing consultants to assist in carrying out agreed institu-
tional reforms under the project, IWT-III encountered some difficult start-up
problems and IDA suspended disbursements for five months (August 1 - December
30, 1993). GOB is now proceeding to implement the project.
1.10      In order of importance, Bangladesh's three major ports are Chit-
tagong, Mongla and the Dhaka/Narayanganj complex, the latter serving mainly
inland and transit traffic from the two seaports. Chittagong is the older and
principal seaport of Bangladesh. Situated in the southeast, it handles about
80t of Bangladesh's 10 million tons of annual foreign trade. With Chittagong
located far from the center of the country, however, most merchandise has to
travel up to 500 km and cross the Meghna, Jamuna and several other rivers;
waiting time at the Jamuna ferries can be several days for road and up to
three weeks for rail traffic. The Mongla port, well-situated in the southwest
of the country, may someday be able to efficiently serve the western part of
the country, but it has yet to fulfill this role due to problems of siltation



- 4-
at the approaches to the berths and hinterland access. Designed for a 7.5
meter (m) deep approach channel, the port can presen'. Iy accommodate only
vessels of .:p to 4 m draft. While Mongla-, connection to tre r,main road
networx through Khulna has now been completed (with a ferry crossing over the
Rupsha), most cargo still travels by inland wateruiays and sevixce to the
northwest remains poor (with most cargo coming via ChiLtacgong) . The Dhaka/
Narayanganj port complex is handling an increasirq volume of traffLc, growing
from 1.6 million tons in 1980 to ovet 3 w.illioii Loni LodLay.  The potential for
container traffic at this port is -resently same 2,06,;O   tons and could grow
to over 500,000 tons by the year 2000, ii adequate contairner facilities are
provided.  The Chittagonig and Mongla Port Aulduv,rit Leo are two of the better
managed parastatals in Bangladesh and have shown surpluses foi the last
several years. In assessing Bangladesh's need tc2 furthelr development of its
ports, including measures to address Mongla's swlt_`',ion problems, potential
for growth in conta4.ner traffic and possible establishment of an international
port of call at Dhaka, it is important to take an integrated approach;
preparation work is planned under IDA's Sixth Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 2393-BD) for a port systems development project.
1.11      Airports and Air Traffic.  Though growing, civil aviation still
carries a negligible portion of domestic traf-fic. Local air transport is
mainly handled by BIMWN Bangladesh Airlines, a public sector airline which
also operates international flights.
B. Public Expenditure for Transport
1.12      Transport expenditures, about 10% of total public expenditures in
FY90, fluctuated between 7t and 13% of total expenditures in the 1980s (Tk 5-
10 billion, or about US$ 200-300 nmillion, per year). In real terms, total
development expenditures for the main transport network over this same period
declined, despite a 40t increase in donor assistance to the sector. As a
result, Bangladesh has one of the lowest levels of public investment in
transport per unit of output in the sector, among Asian countries. Develop-
ment expenditures have also tended to be somewhat biased in favor of the rail
subsector (in relation to its role in transport). In contrast, recurrent
expenditures for transport have been relatively high, but this is because of
the large deficits incurred by Bangladesh Railways and, to a lesser extent,
deficits of other transport parastatals.
1.13      GOB has made reasonably good progress in setting investment
priorities in its three year rolling investment program (TYRIP) which is
reviewed on an annual basis with IDA and other donors (under the Public
Resource Management Adjustment Project, Cr. 2361-BD). Transport (excluding
the Jamuna bridge) accounts for about 12% of investments in the FY93-95 TYRIP
(Tk 38 billion, or US$ 975 million) .1 Transport sector planning in particular
is being addressed under the BTSS project (para. 1.15). While inadequate
levels of maintenance expenditures is a generally recognized problem in
Bangladesh, progress h"s been made in some sectors in recent years; for
example, the maintenance budget for the main road network has tripled during
FY87-93.  Elimination of the transport parastatals' deficits, particularly
that of BR, will also go a long way toward freeing up budgetarv resources for
enhanced maintenance and development expenditures in the transport sector.
1.14      An analysis of the transport sector's overall revenues and
expenditur   -arried out during IDA's Transport Sector Review shows that the
1/ Jamuna bridge atlocation is Tk 12.8 billion for FY93-95.



transport sector as a whole genejate!3 about as much revenue for GOB as it
requires in recurront experiditures (about Tk 4.9 billion and Tk 4.7 billion,
respectively, in FY891  t)n n 3subsoctoral basis, ports and roads cover their
required user costr- (pa.-iS   l   nirl 2.24-2.25), but deticits occur in
railways and iiiland  '.aLi troi.pC, thcse a.re being addressed as indicated
above (paras. 1.8-.9) and in Annex 1_.  GOB also occasionally imposes
special taxes to  4-so t       -nT{ I' v-art:icolar projects, as in the case of the
Jamuna bridge whichl    1.lnk c'-vstern and  BesLerxi Bangladiesh.
C.  In:st1tutiznaL Azrrangem_nts and Government Policies
1.15      Four separate iiliC nir,-xe-'ommunieat2ins (road and rail),
Shipping (TWT and ports), Aviation dud Local Government (rural roads)--plus
other ministries such as Plannlng and Finiance, are involved in the transport
sector. In addition, there are eight transport parastatals. The result in
the past has been a lack oI integrated sector planning and policy development.
In an effort to overcome this, IDA's Transport Sector Review recommended the
establishment of an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee for Transport
(IMSCT), with real executive author-ty to formulate transport sector invest-
ment plans, under the Planning Commission's chairmanship. IMSCT was formed.
with key agency representatives as members, in early 1992, but with a mandate
limited to an advisory role vis-a-vis transport planning and policy and a main
stated purpose of coordination of the Bangladesh Transport Sector Study
project. The BTSS project's primary objective is to strengthen the Planning
Commission's Infrastructure Division's capability for planning and policy
development for the country's transport sector and to formulate, as a direct
output of the project, a long-term sectoral strategy. The project is
essentially a continuation of work initiated under the Transport Sector
Review. The BTSS project, after some start-u, delays, is moving forward and
is expected to be completed later this year. Under the recently approved
Jamuna Bridge Project (Cr. 2569-BD), GOB agreed to use the BTSS results in
formulating future transport investment plans. With this and the improved
inter-minis'.erial coordination which has evolved in the course of preparing
three year rolling investment programs across all sectors, it is likely the
role of the IMSCT will remain limited to coordinating the BTSS, since such a
committee cannot, in any case, duplicate the Planning Commission's role.
1.16      A second institutional issue is the poor performance of most of the
transport parastatals. Only the ports have regularly generated profits. The
problems can be attributed in large part to government policies which deny
parastatal managers real control over key issues affecting their finances
(e.g., tariffs, staffing, salary scales and investment plans). As a result,
the managers fail to take the necessary responsibility and generally cannot be
held accountable. Public enterprise reform is a central focus of GOB's devel-
opment st.ategy for the country as a whole. Many of the recommendations made
in IDA's Transport Sector Review are directed toward improving the management
and operation of the main transport parastatals including, over the longer
term, increasing the scope for private participation through partial or total
divestment and/or privatization of some parastatals (Annex 1.1). As for pro-
gress to date, Bangladesh Railways seems to be the most notable (para. 1.8).
1.17      Outside of its generally accepted regulatory functions and direct
participation in providing some transport services, GOB also intervenes in
transport sector operations in freight and passenger operations and in the
licensing of vehicle assembly plants. IDA's Transport Sector Review makes a
number of recommendations in this area, including: (a) contracting of Govern-
ment cargo through freight brokers using a competitive tendering system to



- 6 -
reduce costs and rationalize its allocation; (bi deregulation of passenger
transport markets in phases, beginning with higher quality passenger services
and extending over a 5-5year period to all passenger services, to improve
efficiency, and (c) liberalization of licensing of vehicle assembly operations
and reduction of impoit. duties to improve the availability of vehicles and
spare parts.  GOB has generaily reacte.d positively to these recommcndations
and, as indicated in Annex 1.1, lias begun implemeiiting them.
D. Development Strategy for the Transport Sector
1.18      Poverty alleviation remains the overriding objective of the
Government's strategy for Bangladesh's economic developtnent. While good
progress has been made in recent years in achieving macroeconomic stability,
efforts must now be directed toward accelerating the economy's growth and
employment generation. This requires opening up the economy to increased
investment led by a more dynamic and vibrant private sector, complemented by
public investment in physical and social infrastructure to help create an
enabling environment for such activity. Broad-based labor-intensive economic
growth in agriculture and manufacturing is a central element of GOB's develop-
ment strategy. Impressive gains have been made in food grain production. The
next phase of agricultural development will require improved access to inputs
and markets to support further intensification and crop diversification.
Investments in rural infrastructure and removal of major inter-regional
transport barriers like the Jamuna crossing are prerequisites for development
of agro-industries, off-farm employmesnt and exports. Building on its recent
success in garment exports, Bangladesh hopes to increase export-oriented
industrial growth. GOB recognizes that successful competition in internation-
al markets will require development and upkeep of supporting infrastructure.
1.19      GOB's Fourth Five Year Plan (FFYP/FY91-95) recognizes transport's
critical role in implementing this strategy, through improving the delivery of
essential services and enabling efficient public ar.d private investment in
other sectors in support of economic growth and poverty reduction. The FFYP's
stated objectives for transport are far-reaching--complete ongoing projects,
maximize utilization of the existing transport network, improve access to
rural areas, address urban transport problems, ensure economic modal split
through appropriate pricing policies, encourage fuel economy, improve
passenger safety and comfort through better maintenance and regulations, and
encourage increased private participation in the IWT and road subsectors. The
FFYP places particular emphasis on economic justification of projects and a
balanced development of the overall transport network.
1.20      Consistent with the above, IDA's comprehensive review of the
transport sector, completed in 1991 with substantive participation by the
ministries and other sector agencies involved in the transport sector and
concerned donors, proposed a development strategy with respect to future
investments as well as policy and institutional reforms necessary for improved
sector efficiency. Briefly, the key reforms include:
o    establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee for
Transport responsible for investment planning, backed up by solid
technical assistance in its first couple years of operation;
*    appointment of freight brokers for Government account cargo;
0    phased deregulation of passenger transport markets;
o    reduction of iiaport duties on spare parts for transport equipment;
O    privatization of all or parts of specific transport parastatals;
*    eventual elimination of subsidies for rail passenger transport; and



o    improvement in resource mobilization by requiring sector agencies
to set user charges and fees at cost recovery.
Priority investment areas identified are:
o    development of an arterial corridor linking the two seaports to
Dhaka and the four regions, including improvement of the trans-
Jamuna crossing;
o    implementation of the recommendations of the Road Master Plan which
places piiority on periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of road
sections to defer more costly reconstruction;
o    maintenance and completion of missing structures on priority rural
roads;
o    improvement of substandard ferry operations on the road network;
0    reduction of surplus railway workers by severance payments; and
O    rehabilitation dredging of Mongla port.
1.21      As indicated above and in Annex 1.1, GOB has initiated action on
both the reform program and priority investment program, in many cases in
connection with donor-funded projects. The Resident Advisor to the Planning
Commission's Infrastructure Division, appointed under the BTSS project, is
also working with GOB to carry out further studies and develop a long-term
integrated strategy for the transport sector, wvhich will form the basis of
future investment plans in the sector.
E.  IDA's Role and Assistance StrateQv for the Transport Sector
1.22      With poverty alleviation the primary objective of development in
Bangladesh, GOB's development strategy and IDA's country assistance strategy2
reflect the two-pronged approach to poverty reduction outlined in the 1990
World Development Report (WDR). This consists of broadly based labor-inten-
sive economic growth to generate efficient income-earning opportunities for
the poor, and investment in human resource development to enable the poor to
take advantage of these opportunities; a safety net is added to assist the
most vulnerable groups in society.  In the case of Bangladesh, while most of
this growth is expected to come from the private sector, public investment in
physical infrastructure and human resource development are essential enabling
conditions for private investment. An important pre-condition, fiscal and
monetary stability, has already been achieved, opening the way for GOB to
implement the necessary structural reforms to boost investment and growth.
IDA's country assistance strategy provides a framework to assist Bangladesh in
this process through four main fronts: (a) increasing the level and efficiency
of public investment, (b) enhancing the country's external competitiveness,
(c) accelerating private sector investment and productivity, and (d) improving
human resource development and provision of the social safety net. Consistent
with the 1994 WDR on infrastructure which documents the strong connection
between infrastructure and development and poverty alleviation and IDA's
recent country economic reports on Bangladesh3 which attach high priority to
efficient public investment in physical infrastructure, improving infrastruc-
ture, thereby removing physical obstacles to private enterprise, is an
important part of this assistance strategy. IDA's objectives in the transport
g/ IDA's country assistance strategy is presented in President's Report for Bangladesh: Jute Sector Adjust-
ment Credit (Report No. P-6052-BD, January 13, 1994); it was discussed by the Board on February 17, 1994.
vI Bangladesh: From Stabilization to Growth (Report No. 12724-SD, March 17, 1994) and Bangladesh: Implement-
ina Structural Reform (Report No. 11569-BD, March 24, 1993).



- 8 -
sector in particular are to promote the development of an efficient and cost
effective system by supporting key policy reforms, rationalization and
prioritization of sectoral planning and expenditure programming (particularly
to ensure adequate attention to maintenance and rehabilitation), and
strengthening of specific institutions.
1.23      IDA's involvement in the transport sector to date has included five
lending operations for roads, three for inland water, one for ports and
several multi-sectoral operations (e.g., rural development, fertilizer
transport, and cyclone and flood rehabilitation). Of these, four operations
are ongoing: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (RRMP-I/Cr. 1827-BD), Rural
Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance (Cr. 1940-BD), Third Inland
Water Transport (Cr. 2232-BD) and Jamuna Bridge (Cr. 2569-BD). IDA has also
been executing agency for the UNDP-funded preparation of the Jamuna
Multipurpose Bridge Project and Bangladesh Transport Sector Study project
Performance of the recent transport projects has been uneven, but overa:
satisfactory. The port project, completed in 1992 after about five year.
delay due to implementation problems and cyclone impact, was successful in
completing critically needed port facilities with a high economic return. The
three ongoing road projects are proceeding satisfactorily (paras. 2.32-2.34).
While the recent inland water project incurred serious start-up problems,
these have been resolved and implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1.24      IDA-supported transport projects in Bangladesh have helped to
partly relieve the infrastructure constraints in main and rural roads, water-
ways and ports, thereby assisting the country toward achieving its development
objectives in food self-sufficiency, agricultural growth, exports and poverty
alleviation. Infrastructure constraints still continue as a main bottleneck
for further growth, and continued efforts are needed through physical
investments and institutional improvements in the sector. IDA is working
closely with other donors in supporting GOB's efforts in the sector. IDA's
recently completed Bangladesh: Transport Sector Review provides the analytic
and strategic framework for a wide range of future operations for funding by
IDA and other donors; further studies and sectoral analysis are continuing
under the BTSS project. Projects presently under preparation for possible IDA
funding, in addition to the proposed Second Road Rehabilitation and Mainte-
nance Project (RRMP-II), include a second rural roads and markets improvement
and maintenance project, port systems development project and type A feeder
roads improvement project. IDA's assistance strategy and experience in
lending for the road s.bsector is discussed in Section 6 of Chapter II.
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. The Road System
2.1       Bangladesh's road transport system has developed rapidly since
Independence and now handles nearly 60% of freight and 706 of passenger
traffic. The road network totals over 165,000 km, of which (a) about 13,700
km are national, regional and type A feeder roads under the jurisdiction of
the Communication Ministry's Roads and Highways Department (RHD); (b) 22,200
km are type B feeder roads and local roads under the jurisdiction of the Local
Government Ministry's Local Government Engineering Department (LGED); and (c)
the remaining 130,000 km are farm-to-market and lower standard earth roads
(many of which are passable for only a few months a year), constructed
primarily through food-for-work programs and coming under the jurisdiction of



- 9 -
the upazila and union parishads.4  The proposed project concerns RHD and its
road network, specifically that in western Bangladesh.
2.2       With the Jamuna river effectively separating the country into
eastern and western parts, the road network has developed more along a north-
south than east-west axis. RHD's road network is about evenly divided between
the eastern and western parts of the courntry. Compared with other countries
in Asia, the density of Bangladesh's main road network (RHD's network) is
among the highest in terms of land area (7.6 km per 100 square kilometers in
1984, compared with 2.7 for China, 3.8 for Myanmar and India, 3.9 for Nepal
and 4.8 for Pakistan) but lowest in terms of population (0.1 km per 1000
ropulation in 1984, compared with 0.7 for Myanmar, 0.4 for Pakistan, 0.3 for
Nepal, 0.2 for China and India). Because Bangladesh is criss-crossed by
rivers, ferries and bridges are vital links in the network. RHD provides
ferry facilities at some 84 river crossings, 34 of which are on the national
and regional network (Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation operates
the major river crossings, e.g., Jamuna). The southwest region (Khulna zone)
accounts for nearly half of the ferries. Bridges and culverts are so numerous
in Bangladesh that there is no complete inventory. The latest estimate is
about 5,000 bridges and 11,000 culverts on the main road network; about 50% of
the bridges are in the 6-20 m range, and about 15% are temporary (Bailey)
bridges. The non-RHD road network probably has an additional 8,000-10,000
bridges and culverts and is one of the highest density rural road networks in
terms of land area in the region.
2.3       Information about surface types, road widths and traffic on the
Bangladesh road network is given in Annex 2.1. About 8,200 km (60%) of the
RHD network is bitumen paved, but less than 1,400 km, or only lo, has a
pavement width greater than 6.0 m. Of the non-RHD network, about 5,100 km is
paved. Traffic intensities are relatively low in Bangladesh, with only 20% of
RHD's paved network carrying more than 1,000 motorized vehicles per day in
1990 and an equivalent proportion carrying less than 100. Congestion,
however, is a serious problem due to the narrow road widths, high volumes of
non-motorized traffic and large proportion of truck and bus traffic. Because
of the absence of good gravel, extreme roughness of herring bone brick roads
particularly when laid with sand only, weak engineering soils and high
rainfall, the threshold for paving roads in Bangladesh is in the range of 100
vehicles per day (compared to 150-250 vehicles per day in developing countries
with more suitable construction materials and favorable weather conditions).
B. Road Conditions and Standards
2.4       A comprehensive data base of pavement structure and condition,
geometry and physical characteristics of most roads in the RHD network was
assembled in 1990 as part of the UNDP-funded, ADB-executed Road Master Plan
(RMP) study. Based on these data, the RMP rates the overall condition of the
main road network in Bangladesh as fair to poor, basically confirming the
findings of sample surveys carried out in the mid/late-1980s which found road
conditions in Bangladesh (as in most of South Asia) to be worse than in most
./ Roads in Bangladesh are classified into four main groups: national highways, regional highways, feeder
roads and local roads. National highways conmect Dhaka with divisional and old district headquarters, port
cities and international highways. Regional highways connect different regions and the new district
headquarters (64 zilas) not connected by national highways. Type A feeder roads primarily connect upazila
headquarters (460 subdistricts), and type B feeder roads connect growth centers and important market places
with the main road network. Local roads include municipal roads and rural roads, the tatter including
upa2ils (Which connect growth centers to union headquarters), union (which connect union headquarters to
villages) and village roads.



- 10 -
East Asian countries. The main pavement problems concern roughness and crack-
ing; e.g., average roughness on most road sections is over 5 m/km (up to about
9 m/km), compared with an acceptable staadard of 2-4 m/km.  The main causes
have been identified as substandari desicms, low quality construction and
inadegYate mainelnance. A summary of the problems of Bangladesh's main road
network and recommended solutions, drawn from the RMP report, is in Annex 2.2.
2.5       Road and structures construction quality in Bangladesh suffers from
the absence of appropriate building materials, particularly good aggregate.
As a result, pavement construction has traditionally been with a crushed brick
(khoa) base and a penetration macadam surface. There are also some concrete
pavements built more than 20 years ago which are now in poor condition. Roads
are mostly built by hand labor, with steel wheeled rollers the main item of
equipment. Bricks are broken by hand, and bitumen is heated in pans on the
roadside and applied in situ; the result is poor gradation of aggregates and
poor penetration of bitumen--hence, a poor quality wearing course. Further,
materials in pavement courses generally fail to comply with satisfactory
specifications in terms of strength as well as gradation, and compaction of
subgrade and pavement materials is generally far below acceptable standards.
The RMP recommended improvements in pavement design/specifications and
construction methods including the use of at least a minimum set of equipment.
The recently completed Road Materials and Standards Study (RMSS), funded by
the European Union, also addressed these issues by developing, inter alia, a
comprehensive inventory of road building materials, catalogue of pavement
structures and unified set of road construction and maintenance standards for
Bangladesh conditions.
2.6       Bangladesh is not alone among developing countries in failing to
give adequate attention to road maintenance, both in terms of monitoring the
need for and executing maintenance works. Maintenance of the main roads is
carried out by RHD's own labor force (zonal offices) and local contractors.
Maintenance of non-RHD roads is the responsibility of local governments.
Under RRMP-I, a Road Maintenance Action Plan for RHD was agreed, the key
elements comprising increased road maintenance budgets, contracting out of
maintenance works, organizational changes to improve planning and management
of maintenance activities, and commissioning of the Road Materials and
Standards Study. Good progress has been made in implementing the action plan:
RHD's maintenance budget has tripled since FY87; periodic maintenance is now
mostly contracted out and accounts for some two thirds of the budget, leaving
routine maintenance to RHD force account; planning, monitoring and evaluation
units (circles) have been set up in RHD zonal offices; and the RMSS was
completed (1992). In addition, the RMP, based on the Bank's Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model/Version III (HDM), was completed in 1992,
providing RHD with an objective and efficient basis for planning/prioritizing
future investment and maintenance activities for its road network. One of the
RMP study's fundamental recommendations is the need for an intensive program
of periodic maintenance, particularly asphalt concrete overlays, on RHD's
paved network in order to defer more costly rehabilitation and reconstruction
of the more heavily trafficked roads in fair to poor condition. RHD's routine
maintenance practices--pothole patching, drain clearing and shoulder repairs--
are generally satisfactory.
2.7       While actions have been taken on several fronts as noted above,
full implementation has yet to be effected in many cases (e.g., systematic
data collection/monitoring of road conditions has not commenced; RHD manage-
ment is not conversant with HDM, insufficient staff are trained in its use and
it is not being used; RMSS findings have yet to be endorsed by RHD/GOB and put



- 11 -
into a practicable format for field application), and improvements are needed
in related areas of RHD operations (e.g., supervision and quality control of
contractor's works is poor). Follow-up technical assistance (TA) to RIID and
the Roads and Road Transport Division (RRTD) of the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) addressing these issues will be provided under RRMP-II. In addition, in
line with the RMP findings, RRMP-II will finance a 4-year time slice of the
urgently needed periodic maintenance works in western Bangladesh, as well as
continuing the rehabilitation work begun under RRMP-I; ADB's Road Overlay and
Improvement Project provides similar assistance in areas east of the Jamuna.
2.8       The capability of the local construction industry to carry out road
construction and maintenance activities has also been cited as a serious
constraint on the improved performance of Bangladesh's road subsector. Local
road contractors are for the most part labor-contractors, constrained by
insufficient resources (skilled labor, serviceable equipment, high quality
materials and capital for purchasing equipment/spares), inappropriate techno-
logy and inequitable contracting procedures, and lacking the motivation and
know-how to improve the situation. A comprehensive study of the Bangladesh
construction industry, including an action plan for implementing its main
recommendations, was completed in 1989 by consultants financed by the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA, UK). However, follow up on the study was
slow, due in part to the study's not falling under the aegis of any one
ministry, differences of view among the concerned government agencies and
between GOB and IDA, and change of Government. In an effort to break this
hiatus, it was agreed that a local consultant would prepare a revised action
plan based on discussions of the study's recommendations with GOB, contrac-
tors, consultants, donors, etc.; the consultant's report was completed in
January 1993. In February 1993, an inter-ministerial meeting on the report's
recommendations decided that the road subsector should be used as a starting
point for assisting the construction industry's development. A joint working
committee with representatives from RHD and LGED was set up in June 1993, with
the objective of better coordinating their involvement with the local road
construction industry and assisting its development. During negotiations, it
was agreed that key action areas over the near term will include: (a) common
classification/registration of contractors for the road subsector under RHD
and LGED; (b) streamlining of contracting procedures including introduction of
new contract forms (para. 3.19); and (c) training/ other assistance to
contractors.5 Draft uniform criteria for contractor registration and draft
standard tender documents for works have already been prepared and are under
review by GOB. Implementation assistance will be provided under RRMP-II.
C. Road Traffic and Transport
2.9        Although road traffic has increased at a rate of about 10% p.a.--a
4-fold increase since the mid-1970s--the intensity of motorized traffic is
still relatively low in Bangladesh. Traffic exceeds 1,000 motorized vehicles
per day on only about 12% of the RHD network and is below 100 vehicles per day
on nearly SO of these roads (Annex 2.1). The roads carrying the higher
aensities are mainly along an arterial corridor, linking Dhaka-Chittagong,
Dhaka-northwest and Khulna-northwest, and secondary corridors leading to the
northwest and northeast. The number of registered motorized vehicles is over
it Reduction of high import duties and taxes on construction equipment to facilitate local contractors
access to equipment, which was also proposed by the inter-ministerial meeting, has already been effected by
Statutory Regulatory Order No. 30 (Act/93/1496/custom) which removed the distinction between industrial and
commercifl imports of some 1200 items, itcluding most construction equipment, bringing the import duty down
to 7.5X on equipment and 45X on spares ptus 15X VAT.



- 12 -
280,000, although fewer may actually be operating on the roads as there are no
records of cancelled vehicles (Annex 2.3). Of the registered vehicles, trucks
and buses comprise about 16%, cars, jeeps and taxis 26%, and auto rickshaws,
motorcycles and others 58%. The proportions are quite different in terms of
traffic, however. RMP estimates, based on annual traffic surveys carried out
by RHD and further surveys done under the study in 1990, show trucks and buses
as 70-80% of the motorized traffic (trucks 35-50% and buses 25-40%).
2.10      Non-motorized transport constitutes a significant portion of the
traffic flow, increasing as one approaches urban areas. It is estimated that
for every motorized road vehicle, there are more than three non-motorized ones
(Annex 2.3). On the major roads in the Dhaka zone, the percentage of non-
motorized vehicles observed in a 1989 survey ranged from 12% to 80%. Cycle
rickshaws constitute the bulk of the non-motorized traffic, as high as 55% of
all traffic and 80% of non-motorized vehicular traffic.
2.11      Roadway widths in Bang-adesh are narrow.  About 50% of RHD roads
are less than 4 m wide, i.e., they are single-lane roads (Annex 2.1). Even
for paved roads, the most common width is 5.5 m which makes a narrow two-lane
road, and on wider roads, narrow bridges are a frequent occurrence. The
present road standards compared with those recommended by the RMSS are given
in Annex 2.4; foreign-aided projects involving rehabilitation and construction
are generally following standards along the lines of the RMSS. The narrow
road widths combined with the high proportions of non-motorized traffic and
trucks and buses leads to serious congestion problems and high accident rates.
With motorized traffic conservatively projected to double in the next ten
years (assuming no change in modal shares and a 7% average growth rate for
road transport), the RMP has estimated that some 15% (1,500-2,000 km) of RHD's
roads less than 6 m will require widening by 2000. Consistent with this,
RRMP-II will finance widening of some priority roads in the outer years of the
project. RHD/GOB also need to give more consideration to improved management
of the non-motorized traffic and provision of improved shoulders/paths for
such vehicular and pedestrian traffic in rehabilitation and construction
works. These issues have been addressed to some extent under the Dhaka
Integrated Transport Study and RMSS. Wider and hard shoulders will be
provided for roads being rehabilitated/widened under RRMP-II, and TA provided
to follow up/operationalize RMSS findings.
2.12      Road safety is of serious concern in Bangladesh.  While reported
road accidents declined during 1987-91, they increased sharply in 1992 (Annex
2.5). Moreover, fatality rates are very high, making Bangladesh's roads some
of the most hazardous in the world despite the low speeds; the average
fatality rate (per 10,000 registered vehicles) in recent years has been 50-55
which compares unfavorably even with many developing countries in the area
(e.g., the corresponding rate for India is 45, Indonesia 13 and Thailand 7).
Figures cited in the Bangladesh: Transport Sector Review indicate that more
than 50% of the accidents occur in/around Dhaka. On the highway system,
nearly 80% of the accidents are associated with trucks and buses, while in
urban areas, about 50% of the accidents involve trucks and buses and 25t motor
cars. Bus operations appear to be especially accident-prone (over 500
accidents per 10,000 vehicles); bus driver training should be a priority in
any traffic safety education program. UNDP and ADB have been providing
assistance to the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) (para. 2.16) in
clarifying its legislative, regulatory and enforcement functions; action to
date has been mainly in the area of registration, licensing and vehicle
inspection. BRTA's ability to enforce vehicle safety regulations, however,
remains weak as BRTA lacks the necessary trained personnel and enforcement is



- 13 -
primarily the responsibility of the police. Moreover, the data base on road
accidents is scanty at best; information is urgently needed if improvements
are to be properly targeted. Introduction of a standardized traffic accident
recording form and computerized analysis system would be an important first
step in improving road safety. Under RRMP-II's institutional development
program, a road safety study will be carried out, and safety audits will be
introduced in the terms of reference (TOR) for the design/supervision
consultant under the project.
2.13      Road Transoort Operations.  The private sector dominates road
transport operations in Bangladesh, with the public Bangladesh Road Transport
Corporation (BRTC) controlling 1-1.5% of freight and passenger markets. Truck
utilization rates are relatively low in Bangladesh (about 45,000 km per year)
due to delays at the numerous ferry crossings (the worst cases are the Jamuna
crossings where delays can be as much as 2-3 days; the Jamuna bridge will help
to alleviate this) and seasonality in demand for road transport, particularly
in foodgrain movements (due to lack of adequate storage, e.g., at the ports).
Construction of bridge& to replace ferries where warranted and increased
storage capacity should help to improve truck utilization rates; this, in
turn, would allow retirement of older, unsafe portions of the fleet. Several
atxle loading surveys, including the latest for the RMP, indicate that
excessive truck axle loads, a problem in many developing countries resulting
in significant damage to the road network, are not yet a problem in Bangla-
desh. However, it is possible that there is a need for reduced axle load
regulations, for a limited time period, on waterlogged roads following the
monsoon season. As regards passenger transport, the bus fleet shows evidence
of under-investment, with average load factors estimated to be on the order of
100% (i.e., there is frequent overloading of buses). The Bangladesh: Trans-
port Sector Review contains several recommendations to improve provision of
road passenger services (para. 1.17), and GOB has already initiated action in
a number of areas, including deregulation of high quality (reserved seat) bus
services, liberalizing vehicle assembly plant licensing to allow private entry
and reduction of import duties on locally assembled vehicles and spares.
2.14      BRTC was established in 1961 as a bus company; a separate truck
division was formed in 1971. In addition, it operates a training center and
two workshops. BRTC, like many public sector corporations in Bangladesh, is
plagued by difficult labor relations, inadequate maintenance of the fleet,
poor management and leakage of passenger revenues. Consequently, it has been
incurring an annual deficit of some Tk 200 million over the last several
years, with the bus operation the main loser. GOB has recently begun to take
steps to improve BRTC's performance including change in management, reduction
of staff (through voluntary retirement/transfers), concentration of r isources
on fleet rehabilitation and maintenance, restriction on new investments and
closing of unprofitable routes. The Transport Sector Review recommends that
GOB consider, as a long-term btrategy, privatization of BRTC's operations.
D. Road Administration
2.15      The main public sector agencies involved in the road subsector and
road transport administration in Bangladesh are: (a) RED and BRTA under the
Roads and Road Transport Division of the Ministry of Communications; and (b)
LGED under the Local Government Division of the Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives. RHD is responsible for construction and
maintenance of national and regional highways and type A feeder roads,
including the upazila connecting roads program, and as implementing agency for
RRMP-II is discussed in more detail in paras. 2.17-2.18 below. LGED provides



- 14 -
technical support to local governments (zilas, upazila and union parishads,
and pourashavas) with respect to infrastructure development (roads, water
resources, markets and other public building projects); about 80 of its
activities are road-related. LGED is also responsible for development of type
B feeder roads.  MJaintenance of non-RHD roads has traditionally been the
responsibility of local governments, with the result that maintenance has been
practically non-existent. LGED has recently established a road maintenance
unit with a separate budget and started an inventory process for feeder and
local roads under its jurisdiction.
2.16      BRTA was established in 1990 as the agency responsible for road
legislation, regulation and enforcement. Its primary functions include: (a)
formulating and implementing motor vehicle laws, regulations and road safety
programs; (b) administering driver instruction and licensing; (c) carrying out
motor vehicle inspections anid registrations; (d) issuing commercial vehicle
route permits and setting tariffs; (e) collating transport statistics; and (f)
coordinating regulatory activities of the local District Transport Committees.
BRTA is headquartered in Dhaka and has 18 field offices (Annex 2.6). It
presently has some 290 staff, but the number is expected to be increased once
the full extent of its authority and responsibilities are defined and put into
practice; UNDP and ADB are providing assistance in this process.
2.17      Roads and Highways DePartment.  RHD's present organizational
structure includes ten wings (departments) (Annex 2.7). There are seven zonal
wings (Barisal, Chittagong, Comilla, Dhaka, Khulna, Rajshahi and Rangpur)
responsible for planning, design, construction and maintenance of RHD roads,
bridges, ferries and ferry terminals in their respective zones. Each of the
zonal wings comprises a plannir. , monitoring and evaluation circle and 2-3
road circles; the circles are further divided into divisions and subdivisions.
Primary responsibility for planning and execution of network maintenance rests
with the divisions. At the central level, there are three wings: (a) a
Planning and Development Wing responsible for the centralized aspects of
planning and programming of works, implementation assistance and monitoring,
economic considerations and data collection and processing; (b) a Bridges Wing
responsible for planning and design of bridges and culverts and monitoring of
the structural condition of bridges, as well as overseeing the operations of
the Br-iladesh Road Research Laboratory (BRRL) which is responsible for soil/
subsoil investigation, materials testing, quality control of works, technical
training and research (Annex 2.8); and (c) a Mechanical Wing responsible for
equipment, workshops, ferries and storage; all foreign-aided projects come
under the aegis of the Planning and Development Wing. These wings are also
divided into a number of circles, divisions and subdivisions according to
function. RHD's authorized establishment is 9,048 staff, including 587
engineers, 45 other officers and 8,416 class III and IV employees (Annex 2.9).
In addition, RHD has some 11,870 temporary staff, many of whom have been
working for RHD for several years but Pie not entitled to any benefits after
retirement. RHD has undergone some reorganization and cutbacks in staffing in
the last two years, and about 14* of the engineer/officer posts and 25% of the
class III/IV posts are vacant. Nevertheless, the number of staff relative to
the size of the road network suggest further pruning is likely warranted.
2.18      RHD has traditionally been geared toward road construction.  As the
main road network is nearing completion, the emphasis needs to turn to system
maintenance and preservation. RHD's planring and programming capabilities,
monitoring of the existing network and quality control of physical works
particularly need strengthening. IDA's processing of RRMP-I came only after a
considerable gap in new lending for roads in Bangladesh because of GOB's lack



- 15 -
of commitment to improve its low road construction standards and maintain the
existing network. Consequently, RRMP-I and ADB's parallel Road Improvement
Project entailed sizable TA components comprising, inter alia, the RMP study,
RMSS and Institutional Support for Road and Road Transport Development (UNDP-
funded, ADB-executed); in addition, a Road Maintenance Action Plan and various
pilot activities were agreed with IDA. Over the years, IDA and ODA have also
provided assistance to BRRL's development, and ODA to RHD's bridge program. A
brief overview of the recent TA provided to RHD (and BRRL) is given in Annex
2.10. The present need is to consolidate these efforts and integrate the
findings into RHD's practices and procedures, thereby strengthening its
overall performance. Under IRMP-II, a broad-based, flexible institutional
development program has been designed to meet these needs through a long-term
program (initially 4 years) provided under a twinning/consultancy arrangement
comprising a joint venture with partners from a government road agency in a
developed country, consultants, overseas universities and technical training
establishments, and representatives from developing country road agencies.
Although a number of specific action areas have already been identified, one
of the first activities will be it skills gap assessment to quantify the skills
needed to manage the business of maintaining the country's main road network
and the training needed to fill these gaps.
E. Road Expenditures and Revenues
2.19      During the 1980s, the road subsector received about 40% of
development expenditures and 30% of recurrent expenditures for the transport
sector, with the shares increasing to about 50% znd 33%, respectively, in the
late-1980s. These figures are for the main road network only; inclusion of
local government expenditures for roads would add another 12-15 percentage
points. This compares with the road subsector's share of traffic which has
increased to 60-70% of total transport demand. RHD's development and
maintenance expenditures have tripled over the period FY87-93, with foreign-
aided projects accounting for most of the increase in development expenditures
(Annex 2.11). Maintenance expenditures have been increased out of GOB's
recurrent budget in line with the Road Maintenance Action Plan agreed with IDA
under RRMP-I; the rate of increase has been reasonably steady, averaging about
20t per year. The FY93-95 three year rolling investment program allocates
about 64% of transport expenditures (excluding Jamuna Bridge) to the road
subsector; at the same time, rail's share has been reduced.
2.20      Projection of RHD's expenditures during FY94-99 (including period
of RRMP-II) is given in Annex 2.12. Although the Road Master Plan was
completed in 1992, it was based on data and road condition surveys carried out
in 1990 and needs updating. As explained in Chapter IV, the appraisal mission
for the proposed project, with the assistance of RHD and the international
consultants who prepared the RMP study, did a partial updating of the HDM
analysis, focusing on the periodic maintenance works. The results of this, as
well as the increased allocation for road development expenditures in the
FY93-95 TYRIP, are reflected in Annex 2.12. Road maintenance in the past has
accounted for 10-17% of total RHD expenditures, increasing from Tk 470 million
in FY87 to Tk 1.4 billion in FY93; projections for the period of the project
show it as about 23* of total expenditures, or Tk 2.8 billion per year on
average. Development expenditures are estimated to increase from historical
levels of Tk 2.6-8.7 billion over the period FY8--93 to Tk 9.3 billion
annually. Adding RED expenditures on the ferry system, total RHD expenditures
are estimated to increase from Tk 10.3 billion in FY93 to an average of Tk
12.3 billion per year over the project life.



- 16 -
2.21      The road network's increased maintenance requirements account for
some two-thirds of the projected increase in total RHD expenditures; this is
attributed to the backlogged periodic maintenance which the RMP identifies as
a priority expenditure for RHD. During the August 1992 meeting in which the
main findings and recommendations of the RMP study were presented to GOB and
the donors, GOB requested donor assistance in financing these maintenance
works, particularly the foreign exchange requirements. IDA and ADB responded
with proposed projects in, respectively, western (RRMP-II) and eastern (Road
Overlay and Improvement Project) Bangladesh. Assuming similar financing
arrangements under the two projects, GOB's annual budgetary requirements (in
addition to donor financing) for road maintenance over FY95-98 would be Tk
1.6-1.7 billion, compared with Tk 1.4 billion in FY93.6 To enable RHD to
assume responsibility for periodic maintenance over the longer term, GOB will
need to continue annual increases in RHD's maintenance budget.  The
development program proposed in the FY93-95 TYRIP appears quite ambitious,
particularly in view of the increased maintenance requirements; while the
donor-funded program is 80-85t committed, the priorities among projects in the
overall program and level of estimated expend'tures need to be reviewed.  With
assistance from ADB, RHD has commenced the preparatory works (e.g., road
condition surveys) for updating the RMP; as noted below, RRMP-II will assist
RHD to put into place a system for regular updating of the RMP.
2.22      Road development in Bangladesh in the past has generally followed a
piece-meal approach of pursuing individual road schemes; that is, there has
not been a comprehensive process of national road planning and development.
The RMP study's recent completion and introduction of RHD management and staff
to the use of the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model as a planning
tool represent important steps toward improved planning of the main road
network. During the August 1992 meeting on the RMP study, GOB reaffirmed its
commitment, made during the negotiations of RRMP-I, to follow the RMP for the
majority (e.g., 80%) of its investments in the RHD network. It was agreed
during negotiations that: (a) RHD will prepare and submit to IDA annually a
report on the implementation of the previous year's work program; (b) RHD will
prepare, on an economic basis using inter alia HDM, and will review with IDA,
by April 15 each year, the proposed work program for the next year and the
updated RMP for at least the coming three years (which will provide the basis
for updating RHD's TYRIP); and (c) budgetary allocations to RHD from the
annual development program and recurrent budget will be in accordance with RMP
requirements. Strengthening RHD's capabilities in planning and programming
road investments and maintenance works is a central element of the
institutional development program under RRMP-II.
2.23      While the long-term thrust of road development has been on the main
road network, since the mid-1980s, when GOB decided to decentralize admini-
strative authority to the upazila level, substantial resources have also gone
to the development of local access roads (about 30% of local government
expenditure is for roads). LGED provides assistance to the upazila and union
parishads in planning rural roads and is responsible for development of type B
feeder roads. However, there remains considerable scope for improved planning
and maintenance of these roads.
4/ To make the figures consistent with GOB's budgetary definitions and thus consistent with the figures
indicated in Annex 2.11, ferry expenditures need to be added to and establishment expenditures deducted from
maintenance expenditures shown in Annex 2.12. Using this definition, RHD requires Tk 1.7-1.8 billion for
maintenance from GOB's annual recurrent budget during FY95-98, compared with Tk 1.5 billion in FY93; the
remaining Tk 1.1-1.2 billion would be funded by IDA/AD8.



- 17 -
2.24      Revenues/Road User Charcqes.  Road transport related taxes and fees
comprise vehicle taxes and fees, bridge and ferry tolls, import duties and
taxes on road transport equipment and spares, and fuel taxes. All road
related revenues are collected as general revenues and, in the past, have been
more than sufficient to cover budgetary expenditures for road maintenance
(which urtil recently were not sufficient to carry out neeaed maintenance).
With increasing demand for road maintenance in the future and GOB's commitment
to increase road maintenance budgets accordingly, there was concern whether
this would continue to be the case, and it was agreed a road user charges
study would be carried out in the course of preparing this and the Jamuna
Bridge Project (the last study was done in 1986).  The study's primary  -
objectives were to assess the extent to which road user charges recover GOB's
expenditures on the subsector and to determine whether the allocation of costs
among users is equitable and efficient. The study was carried out by local
consultants under the direction of the Resident Advisor appointed under the
BTSS project and BRTA. The study was completed in November 1993; an addendum
was added by GOB in December 1993 which modifies some findings of the study
based on appropriate assumptions and data. In February 1994, a project file
document was prepared which summarizes Bank staff comments on the final
report, identifying some further corrections to the estimates and outlining a
methodology for future reviews of road user cost recovery in Bangladesh.
2.25      Briefly, the conclusions of the study are that the structure of
user charges is sound and the aggregate level of cost recovery is adequate to
cover road maintenance costs for the next 3-4 years. Each significant vehicle
type pays adequately for the avoidable damage it causes to the roads; in fact,
actual cost recovery is 50-200% in excess of the required minimum level.
While auto rickshaws are an exception where cost recovery is marginally less
than required, it is a relatively minor category and the shortfall is expected
to be made up by annual registration fee increases. As for the adequacy of
the aggregate level of charges, maintenance requirements (RHD and local
government) in the near term are estimated to be Tk 3-3.5 billion, compared
with total revenues collected from road users of about Tk 6.0 billion.
Recognizing that a portion of these revenues must be considered general
revenues for the budget and aiot user charges per se, the value added tax was
netted out of fuel, vehicle and spares taxes and overall level of general
revenues from road users raised to the general level of tax incidence on
imports (22% in FY93). This reduces the level of cost recovery directly
attributable to road users as "user fees" to about Tk 4.0 billion, still
Tk 0.5-1.0 billion above near term maintenance requirements. Assuming present
tax and fee levels, this is sufficient to ensure the adequacy of road user
cost recovery for 3-4 years; at the same time, GOB is regularly increasing
license and registration fees and improving the collection systems which will
further enhance the level of cost recovery. To ensure the continuing adequacy
of road user cost recovery, GOB should update the analysis from time to time
as outlined in the project file document. Hence, it was agreed during
negotiations that RHD/GOB will (a) not later than December 31, 1996, prepare,
using a methodology along the lines of the current study (as modified), an
analysis of the adequacy of the structure and level of road user charges and
review its findings and recommended actions with IDA; and (b) thereafter
implement the agreed actions.
F. Develonment Strategv for the Road Subsector
2.26      Expansion and improvement of basic infrastructure, including
transportation, is a key component of GOB's economic development strategy, and
roads are the most dynamic area of transport development. IDA's recently



- 78 -
completed Bangladesh: Transport Sector Review concludes that the road
subsector is fuinctioning reasonably well compared with other transport modes.
rt identiftes the major issues affecting the subsector's development as a
proliferationi of road projects with poor budgetary controls, planning and
prioratizav-ir, inadequiate maintenance and a poor safety record.  GOB's
subsector strategy outlined in the Fourth Five Year Plan (FY91-95) broadly
addxesses these concerns through calling for: deferral of new projects pending
o--omnietiox  of ongoiy projects, prioritization of ongoing projects to ensure
early comp'etion of high priority and economic projects, assigning priority to
rehabilitation axnd improvement of the arterial road system, adequate funding
and monitoiinng o the mlaintenance program, ensuring proper regional distribu-
tion of the road network while giving responsibility (where possible) to local
bodies to construct and maintain local, roads, and-designing roads with due
consideration to safety, drainage and other environmental and land-use issues.
2.27      The R?P study characterizes the main road network in Bangladesh as
adequate in extent but poor in condition and with narrow pavements, and as not
meeting present demand satisfactorily. Based on an analysis of the needs of
the RHD road network, the RMP provides the strategic framework for planning
and prioritizing the network's future investment and maintenance requirements.
A basic premise of the study, based on the international consultant's experi-
ence, is that, wherever possible, it is more efficient and cost-effective to
preserve the old pavement and strengthen its structure. Although the study
found over 80% of the network to be in fair to poor condition, only a limited
number of roads were in such poor condition that they require reconstruction
at this time (and most of these are already included under ongoing projects).
A fiist priority, therefore, is an intensive program of periodic maintenance
(asphalt concrete overlays and resealing) on the more heavily trafficked roads
before they deteriorate further and require rehabilitation or reconstruction.
This should be complemented by a limited program of rehabilitation, including
coordinated strengthening and widening of narrow roads and roads with narrow
sections. Over the medium term, the RMP calls for 70-100 km of rehabilitation
and 800-1,000 km of periodic maintenance per year plus routine maintenance,
e.g., pothole filling, ditch and culvert cleaning, and shoulder and other
routine maintenance, the works divided about evenly between the areas east and
west of the Jamuna river. Other priority works on the existing network over
the medium term include bridge maintenarce, repair (to reduce vulnerability to
floods) and construction (committed/ongoing) and a small ferry improvement
program. Construction of new roads should be limited to works relating to the
Jamuna bridge. As for the upazila connecting roads program, the primary
emphasis should be maintenance of the existing roads and, as traffic volumes
increase, paving of the herring bone brick and earth roads. As noted above
(para. 2.22), GOB has committed itself to follow the RMP for the majority of
its investments in the RHD network. It also recognizes the need for
institutional strengthening of RHD, particularly its planning, programming and
execution capabilities, to enable it to use the RMP/HDM as practicable
planning tools and to implement the physical works to high standard.
2.28      over the last ten years, stbstantial resources have also been
expended for the development of local access roads, with the result that there
is now an extensive non-RHD network which also needs to be maintained. In
addition, some of the road construction programs did not include necessary
structures along the access routes. These issues were identified in the
course of IDA's Transport Sector Review, and GOB and concerned donors have
taken steps to begin to address these issues, with increased attention being
given to rehabilitation and maintenance works and to completion of structures.
Nevertheless, the key issue for the future remains the sustainability of the



- 19 -
local access roads network which will require increased responsibility for
maintenance being taken by the upazila and union parishads (as well as
pourashavas), while relying on LGED for technical support and for maintenance
and upgrading of feeder roads under its control.
G.  IDA's Role and Assistance Strategy for the Road Subsector
2.29      Past Experience and Lessons Learned.  IDA's involvement in the road
subsector since Bangladesh's independence has consisted of five road projects,
of which two have been completed and three are ongoing, plus some multi-
sectoral operations.' The First Highwav Project (Cr. 408-BD for US$ 25.0
million, approved June 1973) financed the 18-mile Feni bypass on the Dhaka-
Chittagong highway, two bridges,-a new headquarters building for RHD in Dhaka
and technical assistance (project supervision, feasibility studies and
institutional strengthening of RHD) .8 The Second Highway Project (Cr. 964-BD
for US$ 10.0 million, approved December 1979) financed bypasses at Comilla and
Chandina (15 miles in total), also on the Dhaka-Chittagong highway.  Phortly
after opening to traffic in 1979, the Feni bypass began to deteriorate rapidly
due to poor design and workmanship. It was further concluded that the need
for future repairs would exceed RHD's maintenance capacity. Tn November 1982,
IDA approved a supplemental credit (Cr. 1301-BD for SDR 5.6 million, equiva-
lent to USs 6.0 million) to protect the US$ 12 million investment already made
in the Feni bypass. Repair and strengthening of the bypass was completed in
1986, and construction of the Comilla and Chandina bypasses in 1987. A com-
bined Project Performance Audit Report (No. 7954) was completed in June 1989.
2.30      Upon conclusion of these two projects, the main lessons learned and
recomme.adations to be taken into consideration for future project preparation
and monitoring comprised:
(a)  a more effective and efficient strategy should be defined with
respect to the size, comvlexity and timing of local contracts so as
to help strengthen the local construction industry;
(b)  contracts should not provide for horizontal splitting of works but
should include all works in a given section to minimize coordina-
tion problems;
(c)  during contractors' prequalification, the appraisal of contractors'
technical and financial capacity to handle one or more contracts
should be monitored closely, contract documents well prepared and
additional contract management expertise provided through
appropriate contract supervision arrangements;
D In addition to two Rural Development Projects (para. 2.33), there have been several emergency projects,
assisting Bangladesh to rebuild after natural disasters, which have included transpirt components (Cr. 339-
BD after the 1970 cyclone and Credits 1587-BD, 1876-BD and 2048-BD after the 1984, 1987 and 1988 floods,
respectively). The last of these closed in June 1992. The earlier emergency projects were affected by late
appointment of consultants; the recent projects have generally disbursed satisfactorily.
Al/ This project originated as Cr. 53-PAK for US1 22.5 million, approved in June 1964 (while Bangladesh was
still part of Pakistan), and included construction of 135 miles of all-weather road betueen Dhaka and
Chittagong. Land acquisition problems delayed the start of the project, and in 1965 the Indo-Pakistan
conflict broke out. Over the next couple of years, the project underwent several revisions in scope of
works due to underestimation of project costs and difficulty in attracting international contractors.
Before implementation could begin, however, the Bangladesh war of indepenec broke out (1971), and
disbursements were suspended. At GOB's request, the project was reactivated and the remaining proceeds of
the credit CUSS 18.9 million) reallocated to Cr. 408-BD.



- 20 -
(d) more appropriate enforcement 3f contract conditions (including
liquidated damages) should be emphasized;
(e) necessary support should be provided by RHD to consultants so as to
allow efficient supervision, strengthening of the local construc-
tion industry and improvement of construction standards;
(f) if the current method of construction equipment hiring is to be
maintained, careful assessment should be made of RHD's capability
to provide and maintain the equipment at a cost-based hire charge;
(g) the short construction season (seven months) requires good
organization and commencement of work at full speed as soon as the
rains end; and
(h)  pavement designs should allow for substantial increases in traffic
and axle loads, and particular attention should be given to
compaction (local contractors have had serious difficulties in
trying to meet required specifications) and to maintenance.
2.31      For several years after the first two highway projects, IDA
suspended lending for new road projects because of GOB's lack of commitment to
improve its low construction standards and maintain the existing network.
However, it soon became obvious that the deteriorating condition of the ma; l
road network was hampering road transport and economic development. Recogniz-
ing this and .hat deterioration of the roads was beyond RHD's capability to
restore them to satisfactory condition, GOB asked IDA and ADB in 1984 for
assistance in rehabilitating its main roads. IDA responded with RRMP-I (Cr.
1827-BD for SDR 78.1 million, equivalent to US$ 102 million, approved in June
1987; cofinanced by OPEC Fund) which is financing about 305 km of rehabilita-
tion and reconstruction works and 60 km of deferred maintenance on the
national and regional roads in the northwest, and ADB with its Road Improve-
ment Project which is financing similar works on about 295 km of the main road
network in the south. RHD is the implementing agency for both projects.
2.32      Implementation of Oncroincr Operations.  Drawing on lessons learned
under the first two highway projects, the physical works under RRMP-I are
being implemented in two phases, and the project includes institution31 sup-
port in the form of preparing a Road Master Plan (UTNDP-funded, ADB-executed),
implementing an agreed Road Maintenance Action Plan which includes preparing a
Road Materials and Standards Study (European Union-funded), and preparing an
action plan for development of the local construction industry (ODA-funded).
Although RRMP-I started slowly due in large part to devab ating floods in
1987-88, Phase I works are now completed; physical implementation has gener-
ally been good and quality high. Phase II works began in early 1993, after
some delays because of a lack of transparency in the contractors' prequalifi-
cation process; completion is expected in 1995 (before credit closing date).
While implementation of the institutional support components of RRMP-I has
been slow, the basic studies have been completed (paras. 2.5-2.8 and 2.18);
they now need to be consolidated and made a part of RHD's everyday activities.
2.33      The second ongoing road project is the Rural Roads and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance Project (Cr. 1940-BD for SDR 45.0 million,
equivalent to US$ 62.3 million, approved in June 1988), cofinanced by Germany
and Switzerland; LGED is the main implementing agency. The project entails
reconstruction/upgrading of about 500 km of type B feeder roads, construction
of about 3,700 meters of bridges and culverts, improvement of basic



- 21 -
infrastructure (roads, water supply, drainage) in 6S upazilas, repair of
roads, bridges and municipal infrastructure damaged by the 1987-88 floods, and
institutional strengthening of LGED and the zilas/upazilas to finance, execute
and maintain roads and markets, repair flood-damaged roads and protect against
damage from future floods; project operations are concentrated in eight zilas
in northwestern Bangladesh. Following intensive supervision and a successful
mid-term review in May 1092, project implementation has improved considerably.
Agreements reached during the mid-term review concerning improvements to
streamline project execution--i.e., funds flow, procurement, project manage-
ment, land acquisition, staffing and -scope of consultants services--are being
followed up, and LGED's commitment to implement policy reform continues to
improve. The project is expected to be completed on schedule, successfully
meeting its objectives, and a follow-up project is under preparation. Rural
roads had previously been financed under two agriculture Rural Development
Projects (Credits 631-BD and 1384-BD), both of which are closed. While
substantial physical works were implemented under these projects, the issues
of design and construction standards and maintenance were not systematically
addressed until the ongoing project.
2.34      The third ongoing road project is the Jamuna Bridge Project (Cr.
2569-BD for SDR 143.6 million, equivalent to US$ 200.0 million, approved in
February 1994, not yet effective), cofinanced by ADB and Japan; Jamuna
Multipurpose Bridge Authority is the beneficiary. The project aims to achieve
the strategic objective of connecting eastern and western Bangladesh separated
by the Jamuna river. The project comprises construction of a multi-purpose
bridge about 4.8 km long, initially to carry a 4-lane roadway with shoulders
and foundations adequate to carry a meter gauge railway line in the future and
capable of supporting an electric power interconnector, gas pipeline and
telecommunication facilities; associated approach roads =nd guide/flood
protection bunds, measures to mitigate the project's effects on the
environment including resettlement, and technical assistance and training are
also included in the project. The main contracts have been awarded, and
construction is expected to commence in the 1994-95 dry season. The project
has provided an umbrella for pursuing several key policy measures in the
transport sector (e.g., reform of Bangladesh Railways). Development and
application of policies and procedures to be followed in land acquisition and
resettlement under the project have also provided guidance for the same under
other projects including the proposed project.
2.35      IDA's Sectoral Assistance Strateciv and Rationale for Involvement.
Although IDA previously financed new road construction, road rehabilitation
and maintenance projects and the Jamuna bridge are now IDA's main vehicles for
involvement in the road subsector in Bangladesh. This is consistent with the
overall development strategy for roads outlined in Section F above and the
recently completed Bangladesh: Transport Sector Review. Key objectives of
IDA's assistance strategy for the road subsector comprise:
(a) sound management of the existing road network, including adequate
provision of resources for maintenance and rehabilitation,
prioritized on an economic basis;
(b) upgrading, to high standard, roads along corridors of proven high
demand and inadequate existing capacity, the first priority being
the arterial corridor linking the two seaports to Dhaka and the
four regions;



- 22 -
(c) strengthening the main agencies involved in the road subsector
(e.g., RHD and LGED), particularly their planning, programming and
supervision of works, and development of local governments'
capacity to maintain the local access roads;
(d) improving the capacity and effectiveness of the domestic road
construction industry;
(e} implementation of sound and equitable practices with regard to
environmental and resettlement aspects of road projects;
(f) promotion of road safety; and
(g) recovery of peration and maintenance costs from road users through
appropriate charging mechanisms.
The recently approved Jamuna Bridge Project will strengthen the northwest's
linkage to the rest of the country and support the arterial corridor develop-
ment strategy recommended in the Transport Sector Review; ADB-funded TA to
prepare/assess options for development of the northwest, the poorest region of
the country, is planned in connection with the project which will further
enhance the bridge's impact. Proposed new lending in the road subsector, in
addition to RRMP-II, includes the Second Rural Roads and Markets Improvement
and Maintenance Project and Type A Feeder Roads Improvement Project, planned
for FY96 and FY98, respectively. Sector work on the provision of all types of
rural infrastructure is planned for FY95; this, together with experience under
the ongoing Rural Roads and Markets Improvement and Maintenance Project, will
provide the framework for the first project. Financing for a feasibility
study and, if warranted, follow-up preparation work are provided under RRMP-II
for the second project.
2.36      RRMP-I represented an important turning point in IDA's relations
with GOB in the road subsector. RRMP-II follows up much of the work initiated
under RRMP-I and will, in particular, assist RHD to initiate implementation of
the Road Master Plan. A fundamental finding of the RMP is the high priority
of periodic maintenance, particularly overlays, to defer more costly rehabili-
tation and reconstruction of RHD's existina network. RRMP-II supports this
strategy on two fronts--by physically impl'.fmenting a 4-year time slice of the
periodic maintenance program in the west and by developing RHD's institutional
capacity to plan and implement such a program. At the same time, it continues
a limited program of rehabilitation on the highest priority roads begun under
RRMP-I and complements a parallel project for the east approved by ADB in
December 1993 (Road Overlay and Improvement Project). Through a comprehensive
institutional development program, RRMP-II will also assist RHD/GOB to bring
together the key findings of the recent studies and TA provided under RRMP-I
and other donors' projects, and to operationalize them, so they can/will be
used. ODA, which has traditionally been involved with bridges in Bangladesh
(e.g., Priority Bridges Project), has agreed to grant-finance this component
of the project which it sees as critical to sustaining the subsector's pro-
gress and contributing to the country's overall development. Finally, RRMP-II
is an important test case for new approaches to effecting land acquisition and
resettlement in Bangladesh, in line with the Bank's guidelines, on a smaller
scale than in the Jamuna Bridge Project. GOB has requested IDA's assistance
in the proposed project, which supports the development strategy in Section F
and is included in the FY93-95 TYRIP. The project is also consistent with
IDA's sectoral and country assistance strategies (para. 1.22) and complements
its three ongoing road projects.



- 23 -
2.37      Project Sustainability.  RRMP-II, together with ADB's paradlMei
project, will assist RHD to initiate implementation of the RDIP which provides
the framework for future road investments and maintenance works.  While t:ne
rehabilitation works will continue efforts under RRMP-I to bring imporiLanL
national and regional roads in the northwest to maintainable condition, dho
maintenance works will assist RHD to nearly eliminate its backlog of periodic
maintenance in the west before the concerned roads also require rehabilitation
and reconstruction. TA under the project will develop RHD's capability to
update the RMP using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model, u0e
this as a basis for preparing annual work programs, and implement these
programs in a timely manner and with good quality control. in an effoiL 1 3
ensure that this leads to sustainable improvements ir, the main nerworkls
management and operation, various safeguards have been incorporated in thc:
institutional development program and milestone achievements and target
handover dates identified for key tasks.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Background
3.1       Preparation of the Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project dates back to the feasibility/engineering studies (1986/87) prepared
for RRMP-I when a three-phase program of rehabilitation works in the northwest
was identified. It was subsequently decided to limit the first project to two
phases and designate the third phase to a second project, timed to provide
continuing support to the Road Master Plan and other technical assistance
under RRMP-I. Formal preparation of RRMP-II co.amenced in September 1990 but
because of delays in completing the RMP, it was limited to the rehabilitatior.
aspects of the project; following serious flooding in 1991 along some of the
road sections proposed for inclusion in the project, some redesign was done,
and the preliminary engineering report was finalized in May 1992. While the
RMP study had been completed in draft somewhat earlier (July 1991), the
consultant's presentation of the study findings and recommendations to GOB and
the donors was delayed to August 1992. During this meeting, GOB requested IDA
and ADB for assistance in financing the intensive program of periodic
maintenance recommended by the RMP, particularly the program's foreign
exchange requirements. RHD/GOB then requested the consultant team (Louis
Berger International, Inc.-US and Sarm Associates, Ltd.-Bangladesh), who did
the earlier preparation work, to finalize the engineering design and bid
documents for the rehabilitation works and to prepare the first year of a 4-
year program of periodic maintenance works for the northwest and southwest
based on the RMP. The same consultants have also carried out an environmental
analysis of the project and, in those areas involving land acquisition for
bypasses/ realignments, a resettlement survey and have prepared a preliminary
resettlement plan. In November 1993, RHD contracted Christian Commission for
Development in Bangladesh (CCDB), one of the country's larger non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), to assist in completing the planning for and in
implementing land acquisition and resettlement under the project. A final
resettlement action plan (RAP) was completed in May 1994. Financing for the
preparation of RRMP-II has come from the Fifth and Sixth Technical Assistance
Projects (Credits 1440-BD and 2393-BD), except for CCDB's services which will
be financed under the project. In October 1992, RHD requested assistance from
ODA and the Federal Highway Administration (US) in institutional strengthening
through a possible twinning arrangement with road agencies in the two
countries. In response, ODA agreed to finance some consultants to participate
in the preappraisal and appraisal missions in formulating in more detail such



- 24 -
a TA component, and has subsequently agreed to finance the institutional
development program under the project.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.2       The proposed project's overall objective is to reduce the total
cost of road transport on Bangladesh's most travelled roads by improving the
RMD road network through more effective planning, design and construction
(including reconstruction) of road investments and more effective programming
and implementation of road maintenance. More specifically, the project
assists RHD/GOB: (a) to initiate physical implementation of the RMP in areas
west of the Jamuna, thus preserving the country's -capital base of road
infrastructure and improving high priority sections in a systematic manner;
and (b) to develop its institutional and technical capacity to plan and
program works, administer and supervise works contracts, and operate and
maintain the country's main road system. The project complements ADB's Road
Overlay and Improvement Project in areas east of the Jamuna. Upon completion
of these projects, about 40% of RHD's 8,200 km of paved road network will have
been included in a program of overlays, widening, rehabilitation and
reconstruction since 1988. In addition, systematic procedures will have been
established in RHD for planning and executing regular network maintenance,
thereby deferring more costly rehabilitation and reconstruction.
C. Project Description
3.3       The project comprises three main components:
(a) Road works: a 4-year time slice (FY95-98) of RHD's Road Master Plan
for western Bangladesh, including (i) rehabilitation of about 168
km of national and regional roads in the northwest, (ii) widening
of about 100 km of narrow roads (less than 5 m) to 2-lane standard,
and (iii) periodic maintenance (mostly asphalt concrete overlays
and some resealing) of about 1,800 km of national, regional and
tyoe A feeder roads in the northwest and southwest;
(b)  Prolect preparation and implementation support: consultancy
services to (i) supervise implementation of the above road works
over the project period, (ii) prepare the detailed design, bid
documents and environmental/resettlement plans for Nalka-Hatikam-
rul-Bonpara (N-H-B) road which is needed in conjunction with the
Jamuna bridge, (iii) carry out feasibility studies, detailed
engineering and other preparatory work for priority road
rehabilitation and widening works, including improvement of type A
feeder roads, which may be identified during the project, and (iv)
prepare a plan for land acquisition and resettlement under the
project and assist in implementing this plan; and
(c) Institutional development: a 4-year program of integrated support,
including consultancy services, twinning arrangements, officer and
staff training, research and associated equipment, to (i) RHD, to
strengthen its planning and HDM capabilities, improve data
collection and use, enhance quality control of works, instill
better work practices, and improve environment for and capabilities
of local contractors, (ii) RRTD, to strengthen its planning and
economics capabilities and improve information systems, and (iii)
BRTA, to enhance its road traffic safety efforts and assist in
establishing an integrated approach to improved road safety.



- 25 -
3.4       Road Works.  The project's road works component is essentially a 4-
year time slice (FY95-98) of the Road Master Plan for the western part of the
country. As contrasted with RRMP-I, which comprises mainly rehabilitation and
reconstruction and a small amount of deferred maintenance, RRMP-II comprises a
small amount of rehabilitation and widening works and a substantial amount of
periodic maintenance. Taking into consideration (a) the magnitude of
maintenance works required over the medium term to make up the backlogged
periodic maintenance, (b) the need to introduce into Bangladesh new
maintenance technologies as well as improvements in existing technologies to
address limitations of current construction and maintenance practices, and (c)
the need to institute improved quality control of contractors' works, it is
proposed that IDA assist in financing periodic maintenance as well as -
rehabilitation. Associated technical assistance, which transfers increasing
responsibility for supervision to RHD over the project, will improve the
sustainability of these efforts over the longer term. ADB is financing a
similar project in the eastern part of the country. RHD will continue to use
its own resources to carry out routine maintenance of roads and bridges.
(a) Rehabilitation: The 168 km of rehabilitation works, located in the
northwest and basically an extension of the works carried out under RRMP-I,
include about 81 km of national road (N6) from Dasuria to Rajshahi, 44 km of
regional road (R680) from Rajshahi to Nawabganj and 43 km of national road
(N5) from Rangpur to Saidpur (Annex 3.1). Traffic flows are high, 800-1,800
motorized vehicles per day with high truck/bus traffic as well as high non-
motorized vehicle counts, and road conditions are poor, with high roughness
and narrow pavements and structures in some sections. The main rehabilitation
works on 141 km of project roads involve strengthening and widening of
existing roads including construction of new base leveling and surface
courses, removal of old concrete where present and reconstruction of some road
sections, to bring the roads up to modern trunk road standard. Substandard
culverts and bridges will be reconstructed, both to widen spans to accommodate
flooding conditions without overtopping and to widen carriageways to
accommodate traffic flows and improve road safety. In addition, about 27 km
of new road construction is required, including a 12 km section of the
Rajshahi-Nawabganj road to avoid densely developed sections near Godagari
village which are also vulnerable to erosion by the Padma river, bypasses for
Natore (6 km) and Saidpur (8 km), and minor realignments (each <1 km) near
Dasuria and Ghagot river (Rangpur-Saidpur road). The new construction under
the project will require acquisition of about 115 hectares of land and will
affect about 1,365 households (8,000 persons).
(b)  Widening:  Roadway widths in Bangladesh are narrow, and coordinated
strengthening and widening of narrow roads and roads with narrow sections is
one of the priority activities for RHD identified in the RMP (para. 2.27). To
assist RHD in initiating this, the project includes about 100 km of widening
works to be started in year three of the project. The road sections to be
included will be identified in the course of RHD's annual updating of the
RMP/work program preparation; a separate feasibility study will be carried out
under the project to confirm the proposed works' technical and economic
justification. During negotiations, it was agreed that the widening program
will be prepared on an economic basis using, inter alia, the Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model (adjusted for congestion) and be reviewed with
IDA by December 31 of the year before the work is to commence, to ensure
agreement before bids are invited.
(c) Periodic Maintenance: One of the proposed project's primary objectives
is to assist RHD to initiate implementation of the RMP, particularly the



- 26 -
intensive program of periodic maintenance, to preserve the existing road
network. A substantial portion of the road network in the northwest and
southwest is in fair to poor condition and carries sufficient traffic (200-
2000 motorized vehicles per day) to warrant an asphalt concrete overlay
program. Timely intervention is particularly important for the more heavily
trafficked roads, since the repairs needed once the pavement starts to break
up are 3-4 times more costly. Based on a partial updating of the RMP during
project appraisal, the project includes about 1,800 km of periodic maintenance
in the west during FY95-98, of which about 650 km are wide roads (5 m or more
riding surface) and 1,150 km narrow roads (less than 5 m). The main works are
expected to be asphalt concrete overlays averaging about 6 centimeters (cm) in
thickness and some resealing; asphalt for the overlays will be pre-mixed in
asphalt plants and laid with paving machines on the wide roads and manually on
the narrow roads. The first year program was agreed during appraisal. It
comprises about 417 km of asphalt overlays on 265 km of wide roads and 152 km
of narrow roads; about 80% of the works are in the southwest (Annex 3.1).
Preparation of the maintenance program for subsequent years of the project
will be linked to RHD's annual updating of the RMP and work program prepara-
tion, based on updated road and traffic conditions. During negotiations, it
was agreed that the periodic maintenance program for the west for FY96-98 will
be prepared on an economic basis using, inter alia, HDM and be reviewed with
IDA by December 31 of the year before the work is to commence, to ensure
agreement before bids are invited. The project also includes financing for
vehicles and laboratory/office equipment for use in supervising the mainte-
nance works and staff incentives/special pay for RHD staff working on project.
3.5       Proiect Prenaration and Implementation Support.  The project
provides for consultancy services to assist RHD in supervising implementation
of the road works component over the 4-year period of the project. In
addition to routine supervision responsibilities, the consultant will provide
assistance in preparing the annual maintenance work programs on the basis of
HDM runs, regular review of the RMP's implementation in the west, preparation
of the detailed designs and bid documents for the FY96-99 periodic maintenance
and road widening programs under the project and revision of the same for the
Saidpur bypass (rehabilitation component)9.  Training of RHD officers and
staff to enable them to assume increasing responsibility for managing and
implementing the maintenance program over the life of the project will be an
important objective of the consultant's work. The consultant will need to
coordinate closely with the institutional development consultant (para. 3.7).
It is estimated that about 1,125 staff months of consultancy services will be
required, including 277 staff months of international and 848 staff months of
local consultants; agreed terms of reference for the supervisory consultant
are at Annex 3.2.
3.6       The project also provides for project preparation consultancy
services for (a) final preparation of the N-H-B road and (b) feasibility
studies and other preparation assistance for future road improvement works,
and for an NGO/consultants to assist in preparation and implementation of land
acquisition and resettlement under the project. The feasibility study for the
N-H-B road was completed in May 1993, confirming its viability if the Jamuna
bridge is constructed. Due to time constraints in completing the road in time
for the bridge, the final preparation work is financed under RRMP-II although
actual construction is expected to be financed under a subsequent project
2/ Because the southern alignment agreed for the Saidpur bypass during appraisal faced difficult
resettlement issues and potential congestion problems due to its proximity to the city, an alternative
(northern) altgnment was agreed during negotiations.



- 27 -
perhaps with bilateral funds. Draft TOR for completing preparation of the
N-H-B road have been prepared and a shortlist of consulting firms agreed;
estimated staff mouths are about 150 (50 staff months international and lOO
staff months local consultants). A budget of about US$ 3.0 million,
equivalent to about 120 staff months of international consultants and 240
staff months of local consultants, has been allocated for feasibility studies,
detailed engineering and other preparation activities to assist in preparing
future road rehabilitation and widening works. RHD is already preparing draft
TOR for a feasibility study for a type A feeder roads improvement project.
Preparation of the land acquisition and resettlement plan for RRMP-II has
taken about five months; plan implementation and monitoring of its impact is
expected to extend over about 24 months. An estimated 240 staff months of
local NGO and consultancy services, plus fiel- staff, will be required.
3.7       Institutional DeveloDment.  The project's institutional development
component aims at providing direct support to three government agencies--RHD,
RRTD and BRTA in the Ministry of Communications--and indirect support to the
Bangladesh road construction industry. The main objectives of this support
are to improve planning, management and implementation of civil works for the
road subsector and to improve road safety. Technical assistance will be
provided through a twinning/consultancy arrangement comprising a joint venture
with partners from a government road agency in a developed country, consul-
tants, overseas universities and technical training establishments, and
*-%vernment road agencies in other developing countries. A preliminary program
of specialist assistance has been designed, and the joint venture will provide
additional specialists in particular fields as needed. The Bangladesh Road
Research Laboratory will be the center for the program's training activities,
with active involvement of the Bangladesh University of Engineering and
Technology (BUET) and Institution of Engineers of Bangladesh (IEB). An 8-10
year timeframe is envisaged for the program, of which the first four years
will be financed under RRMP-II. The program will be broad-based and flexible,
integrate and build on past TA to the road subsector (para. 2.18), and
coordinate with ongoing/proposed projects and TA provided by other donors
(e.g., ADB's Road Overlay and Improvement Project and TA to RHD for HDM
support and to BRTA for vehicle registration, etc.). One of the first
activities will be a skills gap assessment, although a number of specific
action areas have already been identified, including HDM usage and adaptation,
information systems in MOC, quality control of works, improved maintenance
practices, management training, road safety study, assistance to the local
construction industry, and economics of ferries and bridges. Annex 3.3
outlines the basic elements of the institutional development program; Annex
3.4 gives the detailed TOR. It is estimated that about 544 staff months of
specialist services (274 staff months international and 270 staff months local
specialists) will be required; financing is also provided for overseas
exchanges/training, upgrading of facilities, and materials and equipment
(e.g., laboratory equipment and supplies, computers and training aids).
D. Proiect Costs and Financing
3.8       The project's estimated cost, including physical and price contin-
gencies, is US$ 252.2 million, of which duties and taxes are US$ 27.6 million.
The estimated foreign exchange cost is US$ 119.5 million. The estimates are
based on January 1994 prices. Physical contingencies are included at 10% of
base costs; price contingencies for foreign costs are 2.5% per year for the
project period and for local costs 4.5% for FY94 and 5.0% per year thereafter.
Due to uncertainty in the valuation of land a..d structures to be acquired
under the project, physical contingencies of 80% and 20%, respectively, have



- 28 -
been used. Purchasing power parity is assumed for exchange rate changes over
the project, starting from a base of Tk 40.07/US$ 1.00 in January 1994.  Total
price contingencies amount to about 5% of the base cost including physical
contingencies. Project cost estimates are based on: (a) bid prices for the
first year maintenance program, supervisory consultant ard NGO/consultants
assisting in resettlement; (b) detailed engineering and recent bids for
similar works under RRMP-I and other ongoing projects in Bangladesh; (c) RMP
cost estimates; (d) suppliers' published prices for materials, equipment and
spares; (e) prevailing fees for consultants in Bangladesh for similar activi-
ties in the road subsector; and (f) information from the socio-economic survey
of project affected households. Estimates for the rehabilitation works
include-overheads (e.g., office, laboratory and reside.. .Ial facilities and
inspection vehicles). Duties and taxes (including VAT) are estimated at 12%
of civil works costs, 50% of the foreign exchange cost for imported equipment
and 75% for imported vehicles. The summary cost estimate is given in Table
3.1; details are in Annex 3.5.
Table 3.1: Proiect Cost Estimate
Taka (mitlion)          USS (million)
Project Component                    Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Road Works
Rehabilitation                      1090.5    929.0  2019.5   27.2   23.2    50.4
Widening                             320.6    320.6   641.1    8.0    8.0    16.0
Periodic Maintenance (Wide Roads)   1180.8   1047.1  2227.9   29.5   26.1    55.6
Periodic Maintenance (Narrow Roads)  1425.0   1263.7  268.7   35.6   31.5    67.1
Subtotal:               4016.9   3560.3  7577.2   10.2   88.9   189.1
PreDaration/Invlementation Support
Road Works Supervision               156.3    104.2   260.5    3.9    2.6    6.5
DetaiLed Design/N-H-B Road            18.0    42.1    60.1    0.4    1.0    1.5
Feasibility Studies/Preparatory Work  36.1     84.1   120.2    0.9    2.1    3.0
RAP Preparation/Implementation        32.1     0.0   32.1    0.8    0.0    0.8
Subtotal:                242.4    230.4   472.8    6.0    5.7    1T.8
Institutionat Devetooment
Specialists                            6.7    217.7   224.4    0.2    5.4    5.6
Training/Research                     18.0    46.2   64.1    0.4    1.2    1.6
Facilities/Equipment                  17.6    22.4   40.1    0.4    0.6    1.0
Subtotal:                 42.3    286.3  328.6    1.1    7.1   -8.2
.4iscellaneous
Land Acquisiticn/Resettlement        172.3     0.0   172.3    4.3    0.0    4.3
Staff Incentives                      40.1     0.0   40.1    1.0    0.0    1.0
Vehicles/Equipment (Maintenance)      30.1    50.1   80.1    0.7    1.2    2.0
Subtotal:                242.4    50.1   292.5    6.0    1.2    7.3
Total Base Costs                    4544.1   4127.1  8671.1   113.4   103.2   216.4
Physical Contingencies               507.3    412.7   920.0    12.7   10.3   23.0
Price Contingencies                  544.9    507.3  1052.2    6.6    6.2    12.8
Total Project Cost:        6 2 2                  132.7   119.5    2 52
Note: Total project cost net of duties and taxes (USS 27.6 million) is USS 224.6 million. Totals may
not add due to rounding.
3.9        The proposed credit of US$ 146.8 million equivalent will finance
93% of the project's foreign cost (ODA will finance the remaining 7*) and 27%
of its local cost. ODA will provide US$ 8.8 million equivalent in grant
financing for the institutional development program. External financing will
cover 69% of the total project cost net of duties and taxes; this is lower
than the 90% which is usual for IDA-financed projects in Bangladesh because of
the large share of maintenance works included in the project. Consistent with
the need for RHD to assume increasing responsibility for periodic maintenance
over time, the credit will finance a declining balance of the periodic
maintenance works over the project life (60% in the first year, 50* in the
second and third years, and 40* in the fourth year). GOB will finance



- 29 -
US$ 96.6 million equivalent of the total project cost, of which US$ 27.6
million is duties and taxes. It was confirmed during negotiations that GOB's
share of the project cost excluding the periodic maintenance works will be
provided through the annual development program (ADP) (US$ 22.4 million
equivalent) and its share for the periodic maintenance works through the
recurrent (maintenance) budget (USS 74.2 million equivalent); the credit
proceeds will be passed on to RHD through the ADP. COB will bear foreign
exchange and cost overrun risks. The proposed financing plan is in Table 3.2;
details are in Annex 3.6. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 8.0 million
equivalent (5S of the proposed credit) for expenditures incurred after
November 1, 1993 is provided for (a) the supervisory consultant and periodic
maintenance works to enable the start of the maintenance and rehabilitation
works in the 1994-95 dry season and (b) the NGO/consultants assisting in
resettlement to enable completion of land acquisition and resettlement by mid-
1995; advance contracting for the same totals about US$ 43 million equivalent.
Based on exchange rates and inflation estimates at the time of appraisal, an
allocation of up to 6.4 million pounds sterling (now about US$ 9.5 million) of
British grant assistance over four years for the project's institutional
development program has been approved; signature of the ODA grant agreement
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Table 3.2: Proiect Financing Plan
(USS million)
Project Component               IDA      ODA       GOB   Total
Road Works
Rehabilitation/Widening     61.9       -       21.7    83.6
Periodic Maintenance       71.4        -       74.2   145.6
Preparation/Implementation Support  13.5   -         -    13.5
Institutional Development         -       8.8      0.7    9.5
Total                  146.8      8.8     96.6   252.2
E.  Proiect EnqineerincT and Status of Prenaration
3.10      RHD, with the assistance of international and local consultants,
has prepared: (a) a preliminary engineering/feasibility report (May 1992) and
final engineering/economic feasibility report (October 1993) for the
rehabilitation component under the project; (b) a comprehensive Road Master
Plan study (December 1992) with recommendations on future road development
plans and maintenance strategies for the RHD network; (c) a final engineering/
economic feasibility report (March 1994) and HDM input data/field survey
results (October 1993) for the first year periodic maintenance program under
the project; (d) an environmental analysis of the project (April 1993); and
(e) final detailed design and bid documents for the rehabilitation component
and first year maintenance program. During project appraisal, IDA, with the
assistance of RHD and the international consultants who prepared the RMP
study, carried out a partial updating of the HDM analysis in the RMP, focusing
on the periodic maintenance works. Based on this, the 4-year 1,800 km
periodic maintenance program for the west under the project was drawn up and a
proposed list of road sections for the first year program selected.
Preparation of the first year maintenance program, including field condition
surveys, detailed designs, cost estimates, economic justification and bid
documents, was then completed by RHD and the consultant assisting with project
preparation. IDA has reviewed these documents and found them satisfactory.
RHD will prepare the remaining road works (e.g., widening and maintenance
works for years 2-4 of project) with the assistance of the supervisory
consultant during project implementation (para. 3.13). Prequalification of
contractors for the first year maintenance program was completed and bids



30 -
invited in September 1993; contracts were signed with four firms", in May
1994, and contractors will mobilize to start work in September 1994.
Prequalification of contractors for the rehabilitation works was completed and
bids (except for the two bypasses"1) invited in ",ay 1994; contracts will be
awarded by end-September 1994. The status of project preparation vis-a-vis
land acquisition and resettlement in areas where land will be acquired for
works under the rehabilitation component is discussed in Section J below.
3.11      The Project Concept Paper (PCP) for the proposed project, including
the road works and project preparation/implementation support components, was
approved by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council in Sep-
tember 1993; the revised PCP, based on agreements reached during negotiations,
was approved in May 1994. The Project Proforma (a more detailed "PCP") was
approved by the Ministry of Communications in June 1994. The Technical
Assistance Project Proforma for the institutional development program under
the project was approved by the Special Projects Evaluation Committee in
December 1993. IDA has reviewed the documents and found them satisfactory.
F. Prolect ImDlementation
3.12      Physical Works.  The project supports RHD's rehabilitation and
maintenance program over the period FY95-98 and is expected to be completed by
about June 1999. RHD's organization for the project is in Annex 3.7 and the
implementation schedule in Annex 3.8. RHD will implement the project, with
its Chief Engineer having overall responsibility. The Additional Chief
Engineer (ACE), Planning and Development, will be appointed Project Coordina-
tor with responsibility for overall coordination and for implementation of the
institutional development program. The Project Civil Works Director (PCWD,
rank of ACE) under RRMP-I will be responsible for implementing the rehabilita-
tion works (as "Engineer") and for coordinating implementation of the mainte-
nance works. The PCWD will have final responsibility for implementation of
all physical works under the project; his office will continue to be located
in the northwest (Rajshahi). The Rajshahi, Rangpur, Khulna and Barisal zonal
offices, under the direction of their respective Additional Chief Engineers,
will be responsible for actual implementation of the maintenance works. That
is, the zonal ACEs will be the Project Directors for maintenance works under
the project in their respective zones and will responsible for implementing
these works (as "Engineern); they will be assisted by their Executive
Engineers, who will be field Project Managers for maintenance works implemen-
tation in the concerned RHD circles. For the rehabilitation works, the PCWD
will be assisted by one Additional PCWD (rank of Superintending Engineer), who
will also be designated as the Chief Resettlement Officer for the project
(para 3.31), and three Executive Engineers, who will be appointed field
Project Managers for works implementation. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations, and the Project Coordinator, PCWD, Additional PCWD and
four Project Directors for the zonal maintenance programs have been appointed.
3.13      The supervisory consultant ("Engineer's Representative") will have
two teams: one to supervise implementation of the rehabilitation works as
ig/ Oriental Structural Engineers (tIndia) in association with Concord Pragatee Consortium (Bangladesh);
Indian Railways Construction Company, Ltd. (India); Mir Akhter Hossain, Ltd. (Bangladesh) in association
with China Harbour Engineering Company (China); Bengal Development Corporation, Ltd. (Bangladesh) and
National Civil Engineers, Ltd. (Bangladesh) in association with F.F. Cruz and Company, Inc. (Philippines).
11/ The Natore and Saidpur bypasses will be bid with the second year maintenance program in 1995. These
contracts have a 2-year construction period (as contrasted with three years for other rehabititation works)
and require additional time before contract award to complete land acquisition.



- 31 -
under RRMP-I and one to supervise the maintenance works. For the latter, the
consultant will draw heavily on RHD staff in the concerned zonal offices to be
an integral part of his team, and supervision will include assistance in
preparing RHD's annual maintenance work program for the northwest and
southwest and in implementing this program. Preparation of the annual
maintenance program will be linked to RHD's annual updating of its RMP and
work program preparation, which is one of the areas identified for assistance
under the institutional development program. For each year of the project,
the sections identified for periodic maintenance for the year concerned will
require detailed inventory of road conditions, updated cost estimates and
economic justifications, and detailed design and bid documents to be prepared
by RHD and the supervisory consultant. The staff in the HDM cell, starting
from the HDM model, should eventually be able to do the full preparation, with
the requisite support from the field staff and BRRL. RHD engineers will be
directly involved, with the supervisory consultant, in quality control and
supervision of the maintenance works and will assume increasing responsibility
as the project progresses. At the start of the project, the consultant will
prepare a detailed plan, including monitoring arrangements, for staff training
and gradual transfer of responsibilities from the consultant to RHD staff. In
an effort to reward staff for the increased work and responsibility and
improve staff motivation, it was agreed during negotiations that RHD will need
to introduce an appropriate incentive system under the project (e.g., in the
form of special pay or project allowances); an allowance for this purpose has
been included in the project financing plan. Proposals for the consultancy
services were received from eight consulting firms; negotiations with the
selected firm"2 have been completed and the contract signed in May 1994, for
a June 1994 mobilization and start-up.
3.14      Institutional Development.  The institutional development program
will integrate and build upon past technical assistance to the road subsector.
Considerable flexibility will be required in its implementation to enable
adaptation to the evolving needs of RHD, RRTD, BRTA and the domestic road
construction industry. Provision of assistance through the proposed twinning/
consultancy arrangement should provide this flexibility and enable the
development of a more comprehensive and longer term relationship between the
concerned agencies in Bangladesh and the supplying agencies. The team leader
will be attached to the office of the Additional Chief Engineer, Planning and
Development, for overall coordination throughout the four years of the
program. He will be backed up by a deputy, the local senior highway engineer,
to ensure continuity of command. While BRRL will be the center for the
program's training activities, involvement of local institutions outside the
Ministry, such as BUET and IEB, should foster greater sustainability of the
institutional development efforts. Further, assistance in key functions
carried out by the road agencies (e.g., annual planning and budget activities)
is designed to enable local staff to gradually take increasing responsibility,
i.e., activities are first done alongside the temporary specialists, then by
the local staff under supervision and finally by the local staff on their own;
operational manuals will also be produced, both as reference documents and as
training guides. A preliminary program of specialist assistance and training
has been designed, leaving scope for additional assistance as needs are
identified. Proposals for provision of these services were invited in January
1994; negotiations are ongoing with the selected twinning/consultancy team,
1I: Snnw Mou ntains Ennirina CornnrAtion I td (Au4tralia) in associatinn with fgioal sni TranRoort



- 32 -
with a view to appointing and mobilizing the team by August 1954 (before
credit effectiveness).
3.15      Formation of a permanent HDM unit (circle) in RHD and planning cell
in RRTD, and assignment of sufficient qualified counterpart staff to
individual specialists will be prerequisites for the program's success.
Before each new phase of technical assistance commences, confirmation of a
predefined capability threshold, including availability of trained local
staff, adequate office space and equipment, and sufficient operating funds for
the work, will be required; similarly, before each specialist is mobilized,
the requisite counterparts will be posted. Milestone achievements and target
handover dates will be identified for key tasks and will serve as indicators
for monitoring program implementation.  An Institutional Review Committee has
been established in MOC to oversee the program; one of its first tasks will be
to review and comment on the inception report prepared by the consultancy/ .
twinning team and to agree a final detailed workplan and set of milestones for
the program. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations. It was
also agreed that RHD/GOB will set up, by October 31, 1994, the HDM unit in RHD
and planning cell in RRTD with adequate staff and facilities; the structure
and functioning of these units will be reviewed during the mid-term review of
the project (para. 3.35), with a view to making them permanent units.
Provided the program is successful and further funding available, it is
expected to continue for another 4-6 years after the project.
3.16      The above arrangements have been designed taking into consideration
lessons learned under past technical assistance efforts in Bangladesh in
general and in the road subsector in particular. RHD/GOB appear committed to
the proposed program. A further, potentially serious constraint which these
arrangements do not directly address, however, is the lack of motivation on
the part of officers and staff in RHD and other public sector agencies, due in
large part to low salaries and limited opportunities for promotion. Recogniz-
ing that the salary situation cannot be addressed under the proposed project
and is unlikely to change in the near term, a number of initiatives, e.g.,
access to new skills and improved technology, upgrading of faciliies,
training opportunities at home and overseas, allowances for training, working
contacts with universities and private sector firms, and a structured approach
to career development, have been incorporated in the program to try to improve
the overall situation and level of job satisfaction in RHD.
G. Procurement
3.17      Procurement under the project will be managed and coordinated by
RHD mainly through the PCWD, with the assistance of the supervisory
consultant, for the road works and through the Project Coordinator for other
consultancy services ard the institutional development program.  Procurement
of goods and works under the project will be in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Based
on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs), GOB and the Bank are in the
process of jointly developing standard bid documents for Bangladesh. As soon
as these are available, they will be used for procurement under the project
where applicable. In the interim, bid documents for the rehabilitation works
and first year maintenance program including prequalification of contractors
have been based on the Bank's SBD for Procurement of Works (large and small
contracts) and Standard Prequalification Document for Procurement of Works.
These have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. Consultancy services
financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing



- 33 -
Agency (August 1981), and the Bank's Standard Form of Contract for
Consultant's Services will be used for consultancy contracts. Use of the
Bank's relevant SBDs for procurement under international competitive bidding
(ICB) and for consultancy services, suitably modified, was confirmed during
negotiations. Table 3.3 details the procurement arrangements for the project.
Annex 3.8 gives the project implementation schedule which also indicates the
main procurement steps for the project components.
Table 3.3: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Method            Total
Project Element                               ICa      LCB     Other    U.B.F.   Cost
Civil Works
Rehabilitation                                58.2      -         -             58.2
(46.6)                            (46.6)
Widening                                      19.1      -         -      -       19.1
(15.3)                            (15.3)
Periodic Maintenance                         122.3    20.0        -      -      142.3
(60.0)   (10.0)                   (70.0)
Materials and Eauiement
Vehicles/Equipment (Maintenance)               0.8     1.0       0.5     -       2.3
(0.5)    (0.6)    (0.3)           (1.4)
Facilities/Equipment (Institutional Development) a/  -  -         -     1.1      1.1
Consultancv Services. Fellowshios and Trainins
Road Works Supervision                                  -        7.5     -       7.5
(7.5)           (7.5)
Feasibility/Detailed Design/Other Preparatory           -        5.1     -       5.1
(5.1)           (5.1)
RAP Preparation/Implementation                  -       -        0.9     -       0.9
(0.9)           (0.9)
Institutional Development Specialists 9/        -       -         -    6.5       6.5
Training/Research a/                            -       -         -     1.9      1.9
C)     ( )
Other
Land Acquisition/Resettlement b/                --    6.3                        6.3
Staff Incentives W                              -       -         -     1.0      1.0
T210-0.4  2    1.0 1      16.8    252.2
(122.4)   (10.6)    (13.8)  ( - )   (146.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the credit. Totals may not add due to
rounding. N.8.F = not Bank financed.
j/ Financed by ODA and GOB.
b/ Financed by GOB.
3.18       All civil works (US$ 219.6 million), except for up to US$ 20.0
million of periodic maintenance works, will be bid following ICB procedures.
All ICB works will be bid on a slice-and-package basis, with the contractors
bidding for individual/combined contracts up to their prequalified limit.
Contracts for the first year maintenance program (about US$ 34 million) have
already been awarded and bids for the rehabilitation works (about US$ 43
million, excluding the bypasses which will be bid in 1995) have been invited.
The second, third and fourth year maintenance programs will be bid annually
and widening works in the third year, in accordance with the implementation
schedule. Packaging of works under the project will be done with due
consideration to minimizing costs/maximizing efficiency while also enabling
the domestic construction industry's participation.



- 34 -
3.19      To accommodate scattered maintenance works which will not be likely
to attract international competition and to foster local contractor
development, up to US$ 20.0 million of the periodic maintenance works may be
bid in contracts of up to US$ 3.0 million each, following local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. LCB has been used for small civil
works contracts under RRMP-I (Cr. 1827-BD) and the Rural Roads and Markets
Improvement and Maintenance Project (Cr. 1940-BD). The agreement under RRMP-I
on specific practices to make LCB procedures, as practiced by RED, consistent
with the Bank's procurement guidelines was reconfirmed during negotiations
(Annex 3.9). RHD, with the assistance of the sup"-visory consultant, will
develop a standard bid document for these maintenance works which is
acceptable to IDA,  While in the near term GOB's standard form of contract
(Form 2911) modified to make it consistent with the Bank's guidelines may be
used, the longer term objective is to replace this contract with a more
universally acceptable contract drawing on, inter alia, the Bank's SBDs for
small/large works and alternative contract forms developed under the
construction industry study. Assistance in this will be provided under the
institutional development program. It was agreed during negotiations that
such new standard contract forms for the road construction industry will be
introduced and used by RHD/LGED by June 30, 1996.
3.20      Vehicles and equipment (US$ 2.3 million) to be procured by RHD
under IDA financing under the project comprise motorcycles, station wagons and
pick ups, laboratory and office equipment, and supplies to be used in
supervising the periodic maintenance works. Contracts for goods valued (a)
over US$ 200,000 will be procured following ICB; (b) US$ 200,000 or less, up
to an aggregate value of US$ 1 million, following LCB; and (c) US$ 50,000 or
less, up to an aggregate value of US$ 500,000, following international and
local shopping (i.e., bids invited from at least three qualified suppliers).
3.21      Contractors bidding for civil works contracts valued at US$ 1.0
million or more will be prequalified; the prequalification data will be
updated and new contractors allowed to apply for each round of bidding.
Difficulties encountered under RRMP-I with regard to prequalification have
been addressed through making the criteria more stringent and informing the
contractors of their capacity limits at the time of inviting them to bid.
Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and suppliers will be eligible for
a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7.5% for civil works and
15% for goods (15% of the CIF cost of imported items or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is less). All works contracts valued US$ 300,000 or more,
goods contracts US$ 200,000 or more, consulting firm contracts Us$ 100,000 or
more, and individual consultant contracts US$ 50,000 or more will be subject
to prior review by IDA. This will cover about 85% of procurement financed
under the proposed Credit. Further, with respect to all consulting services
contracts, prior review by IDA will continue to be required for: (a) terms of
reference, (b) single-source contracts, (c) contracts for assignments of a
critical nature (e.g., because of environmental, safety or public health
considerations), and (d) contractual amendments raising the total contract
value to US$ 100,000 or more for consulting firms and US$ 50,000 or more for
individual consultants.
3.22      IDA has been directly involved in the preparation of the
institutional development program being financed by ODA; close cooperation
will continue throughout implementation. Procurement of goods and services
for the program will be in accordance with ODA's procedures. Land for
realignments/bypasses under the rehabilitation component will be acquired by
VTM/nrn  in ancordance with "The Acauisition and Reouisition of Immovable



- 35 -
Property Ordinance, 1982"1, subject to modifications agreed with IDA under the
resettlement plan for the project. Award of contracts for the rehabilitation
works will be contingent on RHD's having legal possession of all land to be
acquired for execution of these contracts.
H. Disbursements
3.23      Disbursements under the proposed credit will be made as follows:
(a) 80% of total expenditure for rehabilitation and widening works;
(b) 60% of total expenditure for periodic maintenance works in FY95,
50% in FY96 and FY97, and 40% in FY98 and thereafter;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure for materials and equipment, 100t of
ex-factory expenditure for goods manufactured locally, and 60% of
expenditure for other goods procured locally; and
(d) 100t of total expenditure for consultancy services and training.
3.24      To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account in US dollars will be
established in a local bank acceptable to IDA. The initial deposit in the
Account will be US$ 8 million equivalent, estimated on the basis of four
months' average expenditures. All disbursements will be made following
standard IDA documentation requirements, except for works contracts valued at
US$ 300,000 or less per contract, goods and consulting firm contracts valued
at US$ 100,000 or less per contract, and individual consultant contracts
valued at US$ 50,000 or less per contract, for which Statement of Expenditure
(SOE) procedures will be used. RHD will retain detailed documentation
supporting SOEs for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
3.25      The disbursement schedule shown in Annex 3.10 is based on
completion of the proposed project by June 30, 1999. The credit closing date
will be March 31, 2000. The total disbursement period for the project is
expected to be about 6 years after credit approval, compared with the 7.5 year
standard disbursement profile for Bank-funded highway projects. The project
is designed around a 4-year time slice of RHD's maintenance program which is
expected to be completed by June 1998. The implementation and disbursement
schedules allow an extra year. Final engineering for the first year periodic
maintenance program has been completed and contracts signed; the contractors
are expected to start work in September 1994. The rehabilitation and widening
works are expected to take 3 and 2 years, respectively, with a 1-year warranty
period after completion; the works are scheduled to begin in early 1995 and
late 1996, respectively. Final engineering for the rehabilitation works has
been completed and bids invited (except for the bypasses which will be bid in
1995); contracts are expected to be awarded by end-September 1994. While
timely completion of land acquisition for the bypasses and realignments under
the rehabilitation component (Section J) could delay its implementation, there
is a year's leeway in the implementation schedule (rehabilitation works
completion scheduled for end-1997), and construction of the bypasses is only
expected to take two years. Hence, the implementation and disbursement
schedules should be feasible.
I. Environmental Imiact
3.26      The project is not expected to have a major impact on the
environment. The road works are rehabilitation, widening and maintenance



- 36 -
along existing road alignments, except for 27 km of new construction in five
sections under the rehabilitation component which will involve acquisition of
about 19 km of new right-of-way. The consultants assisting RHD in preparing
the project carried out an environmental analysis for the overall project,
with particular attention to the road sections following new alignments, and
prepared a plan for mitigating potential impacts and monitoring critical
parameters during project implementation and after completion. The report was
discussed with RHD/GOB during appraisal, and its basic findings and
recommendations agreed. A summary of the environmental analysis and matrix of
recommended actions is in Annex 3.11; the full report is in the project file.
3.27      The analysis concludes that environmental considerations have
generally been incorporated in each stage of the project, including appro-
priate attention to the project's potential impact on the area's hydrology.
Project designs and construction specifications have been modified to take
into account environmental safeguards (e.g., lessons learned in 1988 floods
about sizing of drainage structures, practices for restoration of borrow pits
and workers camps, and restrictions on use of bricks); these modifications
have been reflected in the contract documents for the project. Tree removal
is minimized by widening on one side where possible, and cut trees are
replaced by new ones under RHD's afforestation program. As there is no focal
point for addressing environmental issues and monitoring follow-up actions in
RHD's present organization, the analysis recommends that (a) the responsibili-
ties of the office of the Chief Arboriculturist under the Chief Engineer be
expanded to an environmental unit with subunits responsible for environment,
land acquisition and resettlement, and arboriculture; and (b) environmental
training for RHD staff and contractors be initiated. Assistance in this will
be provided under the institutional development program. Beneficial impacts
of the project include improved access and road safety throughout the project
area and reduced congestion and vehicle emissions and generally improved
quality of life in the towns/villages being bypassed. Uncontrolled develop-
ment and encroachment onto the improved roadway are potentially adverse
impacts. RHD needs to undertake greater efforts to control such development.
As recommended in the environmental analysis, improved coordination with local
governments in integrating road improvements with rural and urban development
programs could help address this issue. This would also facilitate consulta-
tions with affected populations which have been mainly limited to areas
involving resettlement under the project. During negotiations, it was agreed
that RHD/GOB will take all necessary measures to mitigate any adverse impact
of the project on the environment and will establish an environmental unit in
RHD by June 30, 1995.
J. Land Accuisition and Resettlement
3.28      The 19 km of new right-of-way (about 115 hectares) noted above will
have to be acquired by RHD/GOB. This is distributed over five sections
ranging from less than 1 km to 12 km in length, and 3 ha to 60 ha in area. An
estimated 1,365 households, or about 8,000 people, are living, cultivating or
working in the affected area. About 70% of the land to be acquired is
agricultural. The estimated base cost of land acquisition and resettlement
under the project is about US$ S.1 million, including US$ 4.3 million for land
and compensation and US$ 0.8 for NGO/consultancy assistance in implementation;
an additional US$ 2.1 million is included as contingencies due to uncertainty
in the valuation of land and other property. Completion of eviction and
handing over of sites to the respective contractors is scheduled for mid-1995.



- 37 -
3.29      In November 1993, under TOR agreed with IDA, RHD contracted
Christian Commission for Development in Bangladesh, one of Bangladesh's larger
NGOs which has been active in the project area, to assist in preparing,
implementing and monitoring a plan for land acquisition and resettlement under
the project. While a preliminary socio-economic survey had been carried out
by the preparatory consultants for the project in late 1992/early 1993, CCDB
(assisted by individual consultants experienced in such activities) conducted
a new survey over the period November 1993-February 1994. In parallel, it
initiated preparation of a resettlement action plan detailing key characteris-
tics of the affected population, nature of losses sustained, compensation
policies, implementation schedule- Qrganizational framework and estimated
budget. Bank staff have reviewed the RAP (dated May 26, 1994) and find that
it meets the requirements of the Bank's resettlement policy with regard to the
proposed project. It was agreed during negotiations that land acquisition and
resettlement under the project will be carried out in accordance with the
final agreed RAP. A summary of the RAP, including the compensation and
resettlement policy matrix, timeframe for implementation and summary cost
estimate, is in Annex 3.12; the full report is in the project file.
3.30      The Acquisition and Requisition of T:mmovable Property Ordinance,
1982 provides the legal basis for acquisition of land and other property under
the project. The ordinance was amended in September 1993 to raise the premium
on the calculated market value of land "in consideration of the compulsory
nature of the acquisition" from 20* to 50%. The level of compensation for
land in Bangladesh has generally been far below market value' of the lost
properties; further, the Ordinance is primarily directed towa-d legal owners
of properties which excludes those persons who may live on the land or derive
income from it (or from enterprises affected by the acquisition) without legal
ownership of the land and/or other property being acquired. The compensation
policies developed under the RAP are primarily cash-based, with the exception
of support for relocation to poor households (mainly squatters). This is
judged appropriate for acquisition of strips of land (right-of-way) as under
the project. The basic policy package under the agreed RAP includes: (a)
compensation for land and other property based on replacement value; (b)
compensation and assistance to affected non-property owners; (c) compensation
for relocation costs; and (d) compensation for temporary loss of income.
Important features of the policy are the introduction of area-specific Land
Valuation Advisory Teams and Grievance Redressal Committees for the project.
3.31      RHD has primary responsibility for land acquisition and
implementation of the resettlement plan under the project. It will establish
three resettlement offices, one each in Rajshahi, Natore and Saidpur where the
main resettlement activities are to occur. Three subdivisional engineers have
been appointed to these offices with the requisite staff; the Additional PCID,
located at Rajshahi, has been designated as the Chief Resettlement Officer for
the project. The Deputy Commissioner's (DC's) Office is the acquiring body
acting on behalf of RHD (the requiring body); there are at least five
different DCs involved in the proposed project. CCDB is assisting RHD in
preparing and implementing the plan ax.d monitoring its effectiveness. It will
be assisted by technical experts as necessary and will set up a management
information system for monitoring implementation of the RAP.
3.32      The Deputy Commissioner of the concerned district will be
responsible for effecting payment of compensation for land, structures and
trees; all other compensation payments to entitled persons will be effected by
CCDB. Joint verification of the records of entitled persons, including the
quantity and value of their losses and individual compensation packages, will



- 38 -
be carried out by the DC's Office and RHD. The mandate of the Land Valuation
Advisory Teams is to recommend to the concerned DC valuation standards for
land in the particular project area, based on a survey of the land market in
the area; the objective is to ensure that the compensation paid by the DC
reflects the full replacement cost of the land acquired. The project has also
established its own grievance mechanism whereby a Grievance Redressal
Committee is appointed to work with each resettlement office. For those cases
where the grievance concerns issues covered by the appeal procedures under the
1982 Ordinance, the Committee will forward its recommendations to the DC; for
those where the grievance relates to project specific definitions of
entitlements and entitled persons, the Committee is empowered to take the
final decision. The above arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
Government orders have subsequently been issued establishing the membership
and mandate of the Land Valuation-Advisory Teams and Grievance Redressal
Committees, and the Chief Resettlement Officer and three area Resettlement
Officers appointed. over the longer term, RHD will need to establish a
permanent land acquisition and resettlement unit as part of an overall
environmental unit (para. 3.27). Because these arrangements go beyond GOB's
traditional practices, it was also agreed during negotiations that a separate
legal opinion, confirming that all necessary governmental action required for
implementing the agreed resettlement plan has been taken, will be issued
before credit effectiveness.
3.33      The expected timeframe and budget for land acquisition and
resettlement under the project are in Annex 3.12. While the overall timeframe
for implementation and monitoring is expected to extend over 24 months, the
most intensive period of work will be during May 1994-July 1995. The land
acquisition process for the project is still in its early stages--RHD has
submitted its proposal for land acquisition to the respective DCs for all
areas except the Saidpur bypass (pending GOB's decision on the alignment for
the bypass which has now been taken), and the DCs, in turn, have issued the
general notice under Section 3 of the Ordinance for all but one (Dasuria
intersection) of these. The next step is joint verification of land and other
property to be acquired, which should be completed as soon as possible to
enable RHD to take legal possession of the land before awarding contracts for
the rehabilitation works (scheduled for end-September 1994). Given the time
constraints, it was decided during negotiations to delay bidding for the two
bypasses to the second year of the project to give priority to completion of
land acquisition for the remaining (three) road sections. Only after joint
verification will the final numbers of affected households/people and final
costs be known; the present budget estimates are considered adequate. Comple-
tion of joint verification of land and other property to be acquired under the
project and DC's provision to RHD of the estimated budgetary requirements for
such acquisition is a condition of credit effectiveness. An information
brochure outlining, inter alia, the project, entitlements and agencies
involved will be distributed to the affected people during joint verification.
K. RenortinT and Auditing
3.34      RHD will prepare, with the assistance of the supervisory and
institutional development consultants, quarterly progress reports covering all
project components and other pertinent information; these will be submitted to
IDA within one month of the end of the quarter. The PCWD will coordinate
these activities for the road works component, while the ACE, Planning and
Development, will oversee the activities for the institutional development
component. The main purpose of the reports is to provide timely and updated
information on implementation of the project components, highlighting issues



- 39 -
and problems areas, recommending actions and commenting on progress in
following up earlier recommendations. An outline of the road works quarterly
report agreed during negotiations is in Annex 3.13; brief monthly progress
reports will also be submitted for the road works (within 15 days of the end
of the month). Reporting on environmental and resettlement issues will be
included in the road works quarterly reports. The TOR for the institutional
development consultant (Annex 3.4) identifies various other monitoring reports
(e.g., milestone reports, self-audits and evaluations, and technical reports)
to be prepared during program implementation. Details for reporting on the
institutional development component will be discussed with RHD/GOB and ODA
during the project launch workshop- (para. 3.35). -ithin six months of project
completion, RHD/GOB will prepare and furnish to DA its portion of the
Implementation Completion Report in accordance with Bank guidelines. An
independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, will audit annually the project
accounts and financial statements, including the Special Account and
disbursements on SOEs, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
acceptable to IDA; RHD/GOB will submit these audit reports to YDA no later
than nine months after the end of the corresponding fiscal year.
L. Prolect Monitoring and Supervision
3.35      It is expected that three supervision missions per year will be
required up to the time of the mid-term review and thereafter two per year,
for an estimated total staff input of 80 staffweeks over the life of the
project; the tentative staffing and timing of the missions, as well as key
activities, are given in Annex 3.14. At least one of the missions each year
should be a joint mission with ODA and possibly ADB who is implementing a
parallel project in eastern Bangladesh. The first supervision mission will be
a project launch workshop, with ODA's participation. During negotiations,
various monitoring indicators for assessing implementation progress with
respect to the main objectives of the project--initiating physical implementa-
tion of the RMP in the west and developing the institutional and technical
capacity of RHD and other road agencies to operate and maintain the country's
main road network--were discussed; these will be developed in more detail in
consultation with the supervisory and institutional development consultants
during the project launch workshop. Key indicators could include kilometers
of road rehabilitated, widened, overlaid and maintained, RHD expenditures,
condition of road network, local capacity to prepare work programs and
supervise works contracts, status of road data base, local capacity to use HDM
and update RMP, dissemination and application of RMSS findings, availability
of accident data and capacity of local contractors. It was also agreed during
negotiations that a comprehensive mid-term review involving IDA, ODA and GOB
will be carried out not later than December 31, 1996. This review will
evaluate the progress of the first two years of the project, in terms of: (a)
physical implementation of the road works program and overall Road Master Plan
(with particular attention to maintenance); (b) implementation of the
institutional development program against the indicators of achievement
identified in the inception report; (c) adequacy of counterpart funds for the
project, and budgetary allocations and actual expenditures for RHD's
maintenance program; (d) technology transfer which has taken place under the
technical assistance components; (e) implementation of environmental
mitigation measures and resettlement plan; and (f) overall performance of
RHD/other GOB entities, consultants, contractors and donors in assisting
project implementation. Performance against the project monitoring indicators
will also be evaluated. The primary objective of the review will be to plan
and redesign, as necessary, the remainder of the project based on experience
accrued to the review.



- 40
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
4.1       The Road Master Plan study was completed in 1992, providing RHD
with an objective and efficient basis for planning future investment and
maintenance activities for the country's main road network. The proposed
project assists RHD to initiate physical implementation of the RMP in areas
west of the Jamuna, while ADB's parallel project provides similar assistance
in the east. At the same time, RRMP-II assists RHD/GOB to operationalize the
key findings of recent technical assistance efforts and significantly enhance
its capacity to operate and maintain the road system.  In summary, the main
objective of the project, as of the RMP, is to reduce the total cost of road
transport on Bangladesh's most travelled roads. The specific components
include: 168 km of rehabilitation, 100 km of widening narrow roads and 1,800
km of periodic maintenance on the main road network in western Bangladesh, and
technical assistance for implementing these works, carrying out feasibility
studies/other preparation activities for future road works, and an institu-
tional development program for RHD and other road agencies.
A. Economic Evaluation
4.2       The RMP work provided the main basis for the economic evaluation of
the proposed project. The RMP was prepared by international consultants using
the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model/Version III; UNDP
financed the study, and ADB and IDA were closely involved in its supervision.
The HDM simulates life-cycle conditions and costs, for a given road project or
for groups or links of an entire road network, to evaluate multiple road
maintenance and rehabilitation alternatives based on discounted costs and
benefits. The objective is to search out that combination of maintenance pol-
icies which results in the minimum total costs, including costs borne by road
users and the road authority, over the life of the road. The typical time
period for analysis of a road network, as in the case of the proposed project,
is 20 years. Since the HDM assumes free traffic flow, some of its functions
were modified for use in Bangladesh where the narrow roads and presence of
non-motorized traffic and pedestrians often result in congested conditions.
4.3       With the assistance of RHD and the RMP consultants and using the
RMP data base, the appraisal mission updated the HDM analysis to FY93 condi-
tions to define the framework of the 4-year neriodic maintenance nrocram under
the project. RHD's maintenance program for its main road network in western
Bangladesh (about 3,450 km of paved roads with traffic of more than 100
vehicles per day) for a 20-year period was evaluated. The economic internal
rate of return (EIRR) of the 20-year program, mainly asphalt concrete overlays
and some resealing as well as routine maintenance and patching, is about 100l
(Annex 4.1). Due to the delay in the program's start (the RMP recommended an
intensive program of periodic maintenance works which in FY92, when the RMP
was planned to commence, was already backlogged), the first 4-year program was
too large and unbalanced with the next 4-year program. Spreading the
expenditures (and works) over an 8-year period resulted in a negligible cost
for the overall net present value (NPV) calculation and a gain in the EIRR
(because the lower priority works were deferred). The resulting 4-year
periodic maintenance program comprised mainly asphalt concrete overlays and
some resealing over 1,900 km of RHD roads in the northwest and southwest.
Based on the RMP findings regarding the priority for widening narrow roads in
Bangladesh (para. 2.27), it was decided to include in RRMP-II about 100 km of
narrow roads in the identified program as combined widening and strengthening



- 41 -
works (para. 4.7) and the remaining 1,800 km of wide and narrow roads as
periodic maintenance works.
4.4       To determine the order of priority of individual roads in the
annual maintenance work programs, EIRR and NPV calculations will be done on a
road-by-road basis each year. Programming requirements such as the
practicality of bidding and execution will also be considered in formulating
the annual programs. A first year program of 417 km of asphalt concrete
overlays was selected from the 4-year program, and the consultants assisting
RHD with preparation of the other project components (Louis Berger/Sarm
Associates) carried out the detailed preparation, including final engineering
and economic evaluation based on field conditions, for the individual roads.
In April 1994, Bank staff updated the economic analysis of the first year
maintenance program taking into account the actual bid prices fo- the works
and a delay in project start-up from FY94 to FY95 (delay due to time needed
for RHD/GOB to prepare the land acquisition and resettlement plan for the
rehabilitation component).  The EIRR for the first year maintenance program is
about 45t (ranging from 24% to 92% for the more heavily trafficked wide roads
and from 17% to 39% for the narrow roads). While lower than the EIRR
calculated for the purposes of defining the maintenance framework, in part
because investment costs include preparatory works which would be common among
maintenance options, the EIRR for the first year program is more reliable as
it is based on detailed analysis of specific road sections and is about as
expected for periodic maintenance works. These figures were used to estimate
an overall EIRR for the 4-year periodic maintenance program of about 34%.
4.5       RHD with the assistance of the supervisory consultant will
similarly prepare annual maintenance work programs for the remainder of the
project using updated field data and HDM analyses. These programs will be
agreed with IDA before bids for the work are invited. One issue which needs
to be resolved during preparation of the second year program is a difference
in the optimal maintenance strategies between the original RMP and the prepa-
ratory work done for RRMP-II; this is discussed in more detail in Annex 4.1.
4.6       Preparation of the 168 km of rehabilitation works under the project
dates back to the preparation of RRMP-I when a 3-phase program of rehabilita-
tion works in the northwest was identified (para. 3.1). Conventional
feasibility and final engineering studies were prepared by Louis Berger/Sarm
Associates for the road sections proposed for rehabilitation. The economic
evaluation was done using the HDM based on field data and, where appropriate,
the basic parameters used in the RMP. It was updated in April 1994 by Bank
staff, taking into account the change in alignment at Saidpur (northern
route), delayed start of the bypasses to FY96, and higher land acquisition and
resettlement costs for the new right-of-way. Although the EIRR appear higher
on overlays than on rehabilitation, the rate of return on the rehabilitation
works is still acceptable, in the range of 16% to 28% for individual road
sections and bypasses, or about 22% overall. Moreover, it is consistent with
the general recommendations of the RMP which call for a continuing program of
70-100 km of high priority rehabilitation works per year over the medium term
(para. 2.27). The road sections proposed for rehabilitation under the project
are the priority sections in the west identified under the RMP for the project
period, and they will complete rehabilitation of the main road network in the
northwest. A further non-quantifiable benefit of the bypasses is the improved
safety and living conditions in the areas being bypassed.
4.7       The 100 km widenina program, which is expected to commence in the
third year of the project, will be subject to conventional feasibility and



42 -
final engineering studies during the second year of the project. During
appraisal, RHD agreed to use the Bank's HDM-Q, which has been designed to take
congestion into consideration in its analysis of the network, in preparing
this project component. As the HDM-Q has only recently been developed and
Bangladesh is a good test case, IDA staff will provide assistance to RHD in
this effort; longer term assistance will be provided under the project's
institutional development program. Based on the RMP findings, the EIRR on the
widening works is estimated to be about 25%. The widening program will be
agreed with IDA before bids are invited.
4.8       Technical assistance and training provided during project
implementation and through the institutional development program will lead to
sustainable improvements in the country's management of its main road network.
The potential benefits of this are high and might be=quantified in terms, for
example, of the cost savings incurred vihen local staff/consultants are aLle to
displace international consultants. For the purposes of the present analysis,
only the cost of the technical assistance (about 9% of total project costs)
has been included in the overall economic evaluation.
4.9       The weighted average EIRR for the project as a whole is estimated
to be about 27*. Table 4.1 summarizes the estimated EIRR and NPV for the main
components and overall project. Details of the economic evaluation are in
Annex 4.1.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF NPV AND EIRR ESTIMATES
Item           Share of Project Cost    NPV      EIRR
(X)      (US$ million)    (X)
Rehabitit ion               25            24           22
Widenin                      8            na           25
Periodic Maintenance        58           142           34
Technical Assistance         9            na           na
TCtPM                100          166            27
na = not avai 
B. Proiect Risks
4.10      The main risks for the physical project are delays in project
implementation and failure to implement the optimal maintenance program. To
ensure prompt start-up, contracts for the supervisory consultant and first
year maintenance works were signed in May 1994, for start of works in June and
September 1994, respectively. For the rehabilitation works, bids were invited
in May 1994, and joint verification of land and other property to be acquired
in connection with these works will be completed in August 1994 (before credit
effectiveness). To mitigate against risks of implementing a suboptimal
maintenance program, the supervisory consultant will work closely with RED
staff in preparing, tendering and implementing the annual work program.
Relevant specialists under the institutional development program will also be
available to provide assistance, particularly on strategic matters. By
defining the project as a time slice of the RMP, with particular emphasis on
periodic maintenance, the scope of project works has the flexibility to
respond to experience gained during the early years of the project and adapt
alternative approaches if warranted. The annual maintenance program will be
prepared on the basis of HDM and agreed with IDA before bids are invited.



- 43 -
4.11      On the institutional side, the main risks are over-dependence on
the supervisory consultant, ineffective and slow implementation of the
institutional development program, and lack of accountability and motivation
on the part of RHD staff. To promote the development of local capabilities,
RHD staff in the concerned zonal offices will be integral members of the
supervisory consultant's team, and one of the consultant's first tasks is to
draw up a detailed plan, including monitoring arrangements, for staff training
and gradual transfer of responsibilities from the consultant to the counter-
part staff. RHD also intends to introduce an incentive system under the
project. The twinning/consultancy team for the institutional development
program, which will be carried out in parallel, will be mobilized by August
1994 (before credit effectiveness). A first task will be a skills gap
assessment to ensure the full extent of assistance needs are identified. An
Institutional Review Committee in MOC will oversee program implementation; the
consultant's team leader, together with the Additional Chief Engineer,
Planning and Development, in RHD will be responsible for overall coordination.
Various safeguards, including minimum criteria for staff to qualify as specia-
list's counterparts, initiatives designed to motivate staff, and milestone
achievements and target handover dates for key tasks, as well as a system of
self-audits and evaluations, have been incorporated in the institutional
development program in an effort to maximize its effectiveness. Involvement
of local institutions outside MOC, such as BUET and IEB, will help enhance its
sustainability. continued close cooperation among donors in the subsector,
and careful monitoring by IDA and ODA through close project supervision and an
in-depth review of implementation with RHD/GOB participation at the end of the
second year of the project, will further help to minimize the risks.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       DurinQ negotiations, agreement was reached with RHD/GOB on the
following:
(a)  key action areas for assisting the local road construction
industry's development over the near term will include: (i) common
classification/registration of contractors for the road subsector;
(ii) streamlining of contracting procedures including introduction
of new standard contract forms, for use by June 30, 1996; and (iii)
training/other assistance to contractors (paras. 2.8 and 3.19);
(b) (i) RHD will prepare and submit to IDA annually a report on the
implementation of the previous year's work program; (ii) RHD will
prepare and review with IDA, by April 15 of each year, the proposed
work program for the next year and the updated RMP for at least the
coming three years; and (iii) annual budgetary allocations to RHD
will be in accordance with RMP requirements (para. 2.22);
(c) RHD/GOB will (i) not later than December 31, 1996, prepare, using a
methodology agreed with IDA, an analysis of the adequacy of the
structure and level of road user charges and review its findings
and recommended actions with IDA; and (ii) thereafter implement the
agreed actions (para. 2.25);
(d)  the widening and periodic maintenance programs for the west under
the project will be prepared on an economic basis using, inter
alia, the HDM and be reviewed with IDA by December 31 of the year
before the work is to commence (para. 3.4(b) and (c));



- 44 -
(e)  the services of the Project Coordinator, PCWD, Additional PCWD and
four Project Directors for the zonal maintenance programs will be
retained throughout the project (para. 3.12);
(f)  the Inst.tutional Review Committee will be retained throughout the
project (para. 3.15);
(g) the HDM unit in RHD and planning cell in RRTD will be set up with
adequate staff and facilities by October 31, 1994 and will be
maintained throughout the project (para. 3.15);
(hY  all necessary measures to mitigate any adverse impact of the
project on the environment will be implemented, and an environ-
mental unit established in RHD by June 30, 1995 (para. 3.27);
(i) land acquirition and resettlement will be carried out in accordance
with the final agreed resettlement action plan (dated May 26, 1994)
which reflects the compensation policy, organizational framework,
implementation timeframe and estimated budget (para. 3.29);
(j) the services of the Chief Resettlement Officer, three area
Resettlement Officers and adequate supporting staff in RHD will be
retained throughout implementation of the resettlement plan (para.
3.31);
(k) (i) an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, will audit annually
the project accounts and financial statements, including the
Special Account and disbursements on SOEs, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles acceptable to IDA; and (ii) these
audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than nine months
after the end of the corresponding fiscal year (para. 3.34); and
(l) a comprehensive mid-term review will be carried out not later than
December 31, 1996 (para. 3.35).
5.2       Before credit affectiveness, the following actions will be
completed:
(a) GOB/ODA to sign ODA grant agreement (para. 3.9);
(b) GOB/ODA to appoint twinning/consultancy team for institutional
development program (para. 3.14); and
(c) RHD/GOB to complete joint verification of the land and other
property to be acquired under the project, and RHD to receive from
the concerned Deputy Commissioners the estimated budgetary
requirements for acquisition of these properties (para. 3.33).
In addition, a separate legal opinion confirming that all necessary
governmental action required for implementing the agreed resettlement action
plan has been taken, will be issued before credit effectiveness (para. 3.32).
5.3       With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 103.9 million (US$ 146.8
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh.



POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM MATRIX
Poticyllnatitut-    Issues                   mmediate Measures         Mediun-Term Neasures        Agency Responsible         Status
lonal ObJective
1. Transoort
Sector General
Coordination of      Lack of                Establish Inter-            Prioritization of           Planning Commission       INSCT (ch.iired by Member. Physical
sector planning      coordination of       ministerial Steering         transport investments                                 Infrastructure, Planning Comrission)
transport             Comnittee on Transport      for Annual Development                                established February 1992 with key
investments.          (I"SCI).                    Program (ANP) formuta-                                agency representatives as members.
tion will be carried                                 Mandate restricted to giving advice on
out by INSCT.                                         transport planning and policy and
coordinating Bangladesh Transport
Sector Stutjy 48TSS) project. GOB
agreed (under Jamuna Bridge Project/
Cr.2569-BD) to use BISS resutts in
formulating future transport
investment plans. Inter-ministerial
coordination generalty improved as
result of preparing three year rotting
investment programs for all sectors.
Rational             Goverrment account   Develop a system of           Implement contracting       Ministry of Food,         fertitizer distribution and marketing
allocation of        cargo, e.g.,          contracting with             for Government account    Bangladesh                  fully privatized since 1992.  Lighter-
Government           foodgrains, now        freight brokers for         cergo through freight      Agricultural               age of imported cargo contracted
account cargo        not allocated         Government account           brokers.                   Development                through open tender by Ministry of
based on least        cargo.                                                  Corporation                Food.  Goverrnent rote continues in
cost transport.                                                                                          internat distribution of foodgrains           U
related to disaster relief and public
food distribution; of this, about soX
distributed by public agencies and
rest by road and intand water
operators.
Deregulation of      Regulated tariffs    Deregulate higher             Deregulate all             Ninistries of              High quality (reserved seat) bus
passenger            and route             quality possenger            passenger markets.          Comunmications,           services deregulated in 1991.
transport market    licensing system       transport market                                        Shipping                  Developments in this segment of bus
causes significant   segments.                                                                          passenger mrrket to be monitored fo-
distortions.                                                                                            soew time before undertaking full
deresulation. Assessment to be
carried out in course of updating
Bangladesh transport Sector Review
uinder BTSS project.
Improv*             High inport duties   Reduce import duty on                                     National Board of         Import duties and taxes on vehicle
maintenance of       on spare parts.        spare parts.                                           Revenue                    spsre parts reduced to 45X duties plus
vehicles                                                                                                                      15X VAT in FY93 (from 60X duties plus
20X sales tax in FY92). but still
above duties on CKDJSKD kits.
* 
* 
OF
rb 



Policy/Institut-    Issues                 Imnediate Measures         Medium-T'rm Measures       Agency Responsible         Status
tonal      . -ct.ve
2. Roads Sector
lpove               a) Check writing      a) Curtail use of check                                a) Roads and Highways    a) Administrative measures effected to
budgetary           privitege used         writing privilege by                                   Department               control RHO expenditures beyond budget
controt             excessively by         RHO.                                                                            (funds avaltability must now be certi-
RHD.                                                                                                   fied at time of issuing check). RHD
within 6X otfbudget in fr92.
b) Underfunding of   b) Projects in ADP to                                   b) Planning               b) Majority of projects in ADP are
Projects in ADP.      be fully funded.                                       Comission                donor-funded; availability of local
currency not constraint in recent
years. Road Master Plan, coqpleted in
1992, to be used as basis for priori-
tizing RHD irnestments and maintenance
works. Strengthening of RHD/RRTD
planring and programming key element
of institutional development program
under RRMP-11.
Improve             a) Inadequate road   a) Increase road                                        a) Ministry of            a) RHOD's revenue budg'et for mainte-
maintenance of      maintenance            maintenance budget.                                    Finance                  nance tripled since FY87 (tk 1500
RHO road network    budget.                                                                                                million in Fr93).  Further increases,
as well as donor assistance (e.g..
RR1P-11), necessary to ioplement BP's
maintenance program. Monitoring to
contfnue under RRMP-JI.
b) Poor road          b) Develop pavement        b) Implement PIGS.          b) Roads and Hlighways   b) KInitoring/evaluation units estab-
maintenance           management system                                      Department                tished in RHO headquarters ,and zonal
planning.             (P1ES).                                                                          offi,ces. RRIIP-1I to finance time
slice of RHO's periodic maintenance
program including technical assistance
in p4anning, programuing. design and
implementation of maintenane works;
instttutional development program to
assist RHO in devetopmentfuse of PMS.
Improve planning    a) Excessive          a) Restrict expansion       a) Implement an            a) Local Government       a) auilding of new rurat roads now
of rural road       building of            of rural roads network.   expanded structures          Engineering              curtaited.  LGEO prfmarity involved in
network             incomplete rural                                  program.                    Department               ifProveunt of feeder roads/B under
roads under Food                                                                                      donor-funded projects.  FFU (Ministry
for Work (FF1).                                                                                       of Relief and Rehabilitation) mainly
involved in restoration of existing
enbankments/improvement of atigrment.
Increased attention being given to
completing structures.
b) Poor planning      b) Develop criteria for   b) Implement new             b) Upazila Parishads      b) Upazita and union plan books circu-
of rural roads.       selection of rural         criteria in Upezila                                   lated throughout country.  These
roads for completion.      Plan Books.                                          include appropriate setection criteria
and are tuxated annually to record
physical infrastructure.
f i
0 F
oh.



Policylinstitut-   Issues                 Immediate Measures         Medium-Term Measures       Agency Responsible        Status
ional Obiective
lprove             Lack of               Develop an expanded        Implement expanded         Ministry of Local        Separate road maintenance unit estab-
maintenance of      maintenancs of        rural maintenance          rural maintenance          Goverrnent                lished in LGED; FY93 revenue budget
rural roads         rural roads.          program plan.              program with adequate                               provided Tk 250 mitlion specificalty
funding and                                         for maintenance (for first time).
organization.                                       Canada (CIDA) financing rural mainte-
nance program employing destitute
women and covering 61 of U4 districts
(excluding Chittagong Mill Tracts).
tmprove             a) Restrictive        a) Liberalize licensing   a) Privatize PROGATI        a) Ministry of           a) Industrial Poticy of 1991 tiberati-
availability of     licensing for         of CKD assembly plants.   CltD assembly               Irdustry                 zed licensing of CEO assembly plants,
transport           completely knocked                               operations.                                         altowing private sector entry. Three
vehicles            doum tCK)                                                                                            new plants have opened. CtS generally
assembly plants.                                                                                     moving toward disinvestment/privatiza-
tion of nationalized industries but no
decision to date regarding PROSAtI.
b) Kish tariff on    b) Equalize CKD and SKI)                               b) National Board of    b) loport duties on SKO and CKD
semi-knocked down    import tariff.                                         Revenue                  imports equalized and reduced in FY93
(SKID) Imports.                                                                                      (mostly in range of 1S:30X duties and
15% VAT).
lmprove safety      Unsafe vehicles,      Develop a plan to          Expand ORTA enforcement   Bangladesh Road           ADO/UMDP providing assistance to BRTA
in road             poor enforcement.    increase the                capabitity by shifting     Transport Authority      in clarifying its legislative, regula-
transport                                 enforcement capacity of   ORTC staff to 8RTA.                                  tory and enforcement functions; action
8RTA.                                                                          to date mainly in area of registra-
tion(licensinglvehicle inspection.
Road safety stusy planned under RRMP-
11 institutional development program
to identify main causes of accidents
cnd appropriate remedial measures.
ORTA enforcement capability remains
weak, depending mainly on police.
Elimifrte           8RTC Insolvent,       8RTC stops loss-making    Privatize BRTC.             Roads and Road           GOB initiated various steps in FY93 to
Bangladesh Road    and prospects for    services where it                                       Transport Oivision,       improve BRTC performance including
Tranport            viability are         competes with priyate                                 Ministry of              chanee in management, reduction of
Corporation         poor.                 sector.                                               Commications             staff (1500 target for voluntary
deficit                                                                                                                  retireet/others to be transferred to
other agencies), concentration of
resources on fleet rehabilitationt
maintenance, restriction on new
investments and closing of unprofit-
eble routes. GOB consideration of
privatization pending outcome of above
actions.
Improve             Road user charges    Update and impleent         Increase road user         Bangladesh Road          AnalyOis of road user charges
efficiency in       do not reflect        analysis on efficient      charges to full cost       Transport Authority      completed by local consultants under
road use            costs Imposed by      road user charges.         recovery.                                           BTSS project in December 1993.
users.                                                                                               Present structure of charges and
aggregate level of cost recovery found
adeqwte for next 3-4 years.
Additionatly, road user charges
siJected to regular adJustments.            Oa
Analysis to be reviewed/updated by           lb
end-1996 (under RUMP-Il).                   art
o 



Policy/institut-    Issues                  Immediate Measures          Medium-Term Measures        Agency Responsible         Status
ional Obiective
3. Btail Sector
Reduce               Rail passengers        Revise rail passenger       Restructure passenger       Railway Department,        Tariffs for passenger and freight
Bangladesh           are subsidized in    tariffs to equat other        services to reflect         ministry of                services increased about 14X in Fv93.
Rallways losses      relation to other      modes.                      changes in demand.          Communications             In addition, measures implemented to
In passenger         mcdes.                                                                                                    reduce ticketless travel and consider-
operations                                                                                                                     ation being given to private sector
involvement in ticket sales/collec-
tions. COB's Railway Recovery Program
(RRP), formulated over last coupte
years with donor assistance, comprises
broad set of actions aimed at restor-
ing BR's financial viability and
transforming it into commercialtly
oriented organization. ADS loan
supporting RRP implementation
negotiated in 1993; approval expected
in 1994.
Restructure BR       Lack of mnagerial    a) Reconstitute Railway   a) Consolidate under a           Bangladesh Railways       Reform of BR's organizational
organization to      accountability and   Board.                        single General Manager.                                structure is key element of RRP.  ADB-
inprove              authority.             b) Plan for                 b) Privatize container                                 funded technical assistance to support
accountability                              privatization of            services, telecommuni-                                 developsent and implementation of a
selected BR operations.    cations, etc.                                          corporate plan including overall
business strategy. 5-year firancial
plan and specific commercial objec-
tives for each of WR's main business           Co
units, commenced in 1994.  In 
adldition, BR already transferred
certain marginal activities to private
sector and sold some surplus assets.
Elifination of       a) 50 percent of       a) Establish policy on       a) Offer severance          a) Ministry of            a) Reduction of redundant staff,
8R deficit           rail labor is          severance payments.          payments to surplus         Establishment             another key element of RRP, is already
surplus.                                           20,000 BR staff.                                       underway.  As of December 31, 1992
over 8,30T applications for voluntary
retirement received; new hires frozen
since fY90. Target is to reduce BR's
workforce of 55,000 to 40,000 by fY95.
Results to date suggest target may be
attainable through voluntary separa-
tions and attrition.
b) Operation of        b) Establish policy on      b) Eliminate services       b) Railway Depart-         b) Termination of open-ended subsidies
uneconomic             subsidies to be             and assets for which        ment, Ministry of          and introduction of PSO policy for
services and           provided as public          PS0 denied.                 Cosmunications             socially desirable but unremunerative
excess assets.         service obligation                                                                 services is also a key element of RRP.
(PSO) grants.                                                                      In December 1992, O0  approved
Government notification for PSO an
allocated Tk 580 million for it in
FY93 revenue budget; plans are to
reduce this by 15X in real terms every
year.  BR to offset reduction through
increasing fares, reducing money
losing passenger trains, closing
branch lines, improving operational
efficiency, etc.  Since FY90, mater
of daily passenger trains reduced by          O
40 and 2 branch lines closed.



Policy/Jnstitut-   Issues                Ilmiediate ileasures        Mediun-Term Measures       Agency Responsible        Status
iona Objective
4. Uater Transport Sector
Deregulation of    Regulated tariffs    Eliminate freight                                       Ministry of Shipping     Freight tariffs in IUT sector
freight tariffs     cause significant    tariff regulation in                                                            dereiguated with effect from January
in inland water    distortions.           IWT sector.                                                                    1992.
transport sector
lmprove             Dredging resources   Establish Dredging Unit                                BIWTA                    As part of BIWTA Institutional
organization of     of Bangladesh In-    within 8IUTA.                                                                   Development Action Plan agreed with
dredging            land Water Trans-                                                                                     IDA/FINIJDA/JGF during negotiations of
activity            port Authority                                                                                       Third inland Water Transport Project
(BIUTA)                                                                                              (JUT-III/Cr. 2232-BD), separate
fragmented.                                                                                          Dredging Unit established and staffed
within BIUTA in July 1991.
Strengthen          Department of         Establish Inland Ship      Transfer surplus 8iwTC    Ministry of Shipping      Establishment of ISSA is part of DOS
safety              Shipping (DOS) has   Safety Administration       personnel to DOS to man                             Institutinal Development Action Plan
administration      negligible            (ISSA).                    new positions in ISSA.                              agreed during IwT-111 pegotiations.
for inland water   enforcement                                                                                           Draft report on Its establishment
transport           capacity In IWT                                                                                      prepared in 1993; actual establishment
sector.                                                                                              expected in 1994.
Strengthen          Inland deck           Transfer Inland Deck       Implement expanded         Ministry of Shipping     Transfer of DPTC from eSwTA to DOS is
training of         personnel training   Personnel Training          training program with                               also part of DOS Institutional
inland deck         Institutfon now       Center (DPTC) to DOS.      necessary budgets.                                  Development Action Plan under IUT-III.
personnel           nearly defunct.                                                                                      Necessary steps taken by BIUTA; actual         I
transfer, however, pending action by         P.
Ministry of Shipping including                0
requesting budgetary transfer from            I
Ministry of Finance. Transfer of OPTC
expected to be effected during 1994.
technical assistance under JWT-III to
assist in development of training
program.
Rationalize         81UTC fleet has       Adopt 8IWTC strategic      Restructure fleet,         SIWTC                    8IWTC Strategic Plan agreed during
Bangladesh          excess capacity       plan and appoint           redeploy manpower, and                               IWT-I1I negotiations. Primary
Inland Water        and surplus           management consultants    privatize cargo and                                  objective to enable DIUTC to become
transport           manoer, and           to implement.              inland passenger                                    financially viable organization
Corporation         operations now                                   operations.                                         concentrating on activities where COB
(BIWTC)             generate a                                                                                            involvement is required; key action
operations          deficit.                                                                                             areas include organizational and
financial restructuring, fleet
restructuring and rehablitation,
nMroer rationalization, facilities
irprovement and tariff adjustments.
Draft Iplementation Plan prepared by
management consultants to be
finalized, and iaplementation of the
Strategic Plan to commence in 1994.
iprove              BIWTA recurrent       Increase BIWTA                                        Ministry of finance      Recurrent budget allocations to BIWTA
maintenance of      budget allocations   recurrent budget.                                                               increased in FY93, Tk 140 million as
waterway            Inadequate.                                                                                          copared with Tk 105 million in FY92.
infrastructure                                                                                                           However, allocations still less than         0
required (BIWTA FY93 estimate, Tk 241        S
million). Discussion of BIWITA finan-        u
cial situation with GOO regular part
of IDA supervision of lIT-l1l project.       0
%A



- 50                                         ANNEX 2.1
BANGLADESH ROAD NETWORK IN 1990
SURFACE TYPE/TRAFFIC VOLUMEiCARRIAGEWAY WIDTH
(Kilometers)
A. Total Road Network:Surface TyRe            -Paved-         --------Unpaved--------
Bitumen        HBB      Gravel   Earth           Tgtal
RHD Network
National Roads                                  2828           28                    7          2863
Regional Roads                                  1385         199            -        -          1584
Feeder Roads A a/                               4022        1888         147     3196  b/       9253
Subtotal                          8235  c/    2115         147      3203         13700
LGED Network                                  Paved                 Un_aved
Feeder Roads B/Rural Roads                      2900                   15000                   17900
Pourashava (Municipal) Roads                    2200                    2100                    4300
Subtotal                          5100                   17100                   22200
other Roads d/                                     -                  130000                  130000
Total                            13335
B. RED Network: Traffic Volume                Paved                 Unpaved                    Total
Primary or Core Network
over 2000 vpd e/                            504                        -                     504
1000 - 2000 vpd                              1168                        5                    1173
Subtotal                          1672                        5                   1677
Secondary Network
500 -  999 vpd                              1378                                             1378
200 -  499 vpd                              1666                      141                    1807
100 -  199 vpd                              1533                      484                    2017
Subtotal                          4577                     625                    5202
Tertiary Network
up to 100 vpd                              1750                    3535                     5285
Residual/Traffic Unknown                         236                    1300                    1536
Total                             8235                    .54                   _13700
C. RED Network: CarriagewaY Width              < 4 m        4-6        > 6 m  Unknown          Total
National Roads                                   585        1458         820         -          2863
Regional Roads                                   858         647          79         -          1584
Feeder Roads A                                  5725        1509         476     1543           9253
Total                             7168        3614        1375     1543         ,13700
Source: RHD, RMP, Bangladesh: Transport Sector Review, Bank staff estimates
Note:  HS= Herring Bone Brick.
a/  Includes upazita connecting roads (about 6300 km).
bl  Includes about 1550 km of Feeder Roads A for which no breakdown mas available.
/  Of which 6442 km were analyzed in the RMP.
d1  Farm-to-market roads and tower standard earth roads (mwany of which are passable for only a few months a year)
constructed primarily through food-for-work programs and coming under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives and Ministry of Relief and Rehabilitation.
SI  Vehicles per day (motorized).



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 5
ROAD MASTER PLAN STUDY
Summary of Main Problems of RHD Roads and Recommended Solutions 1/
1.        Though the transport system of Bangladesh was initially more river
and rail oriented, the 14,000 km long RHD road network has now become the main
mode of communication within the country. Because the Jamuna river cuts the
country in clearly distinct western and eastern parts, the network has
developed more along the north-south than along the west-east axis, and as the
country is a river delta (Jamuna/Padma and Meghna) it is very dependent on
ferry services. To meet the growing demand for road transport, outlays on
road rehabilitation have been increased and important construction programs
have been undertaken during the last few years. Major projects, such as the
Jamuna Bridge, are likely to further emphasize the pre-eminence of the road
network in the country's transport system.
2.        The Bangladesh road network comprises about 8,000 km of paved
roads. Nearly 2,000 km carry motorized traffic of more than 1,000 vehicles
per day (vpd). Only 500 km have traffic of more than 2,000 vpd. During the
next ten years, the traffic volumes on these roads are expected to double.
About 5,500 km are unpaved, herring bone brick (HBB) (2,000 km) or earth roads
(3,500 km), of which about 4,500 km have traffic of less than 100 vpd and are
subject to closure during the monsoon season.
3.        Specific difficulties need to be solved to meet requirements in
terms of raising the level of service and increasing the coverage (and length)
of the network. The analysis of traffic and other physical data under the
Road Master Plan study has enabled the identification of the major problems
afflicting the country's roads. These include the narrow width of roads and
bridges, poor pavement surfaces and construction quality, poor flood
protection, major route discontinuities, and need to ensure, at low cost,
minimum passability on the lightly used but rather extensive part of the rural
network.
A. Road W;dths
4.        Annex 2.1 shows the existing distribution of the network according
to traffic, but it conceals an important fact, namely, the high proportion of
trucks and buses (70% to 80*) in the frequently congested traffic conditions
on the road network. Annex 2.1 also shows that about 50% (7,000 km) of RHD
roads, 8% of which are national roads, are single lane and have a carriageway
of less than 4 m width. By far the most common width on the main paved roads
(about 2,000 km) is 5.5 m. Only about 1,400 km have a carriageway width of
more than 6 m. These conditions, along with the large proportion of non-
motorized traffic, entail congestion, difficulties in crossing and passing,
low average speed and road accidents. A total of 1,400 km of roads less than
4 m wide is forecast to carry more than 500 vpd by the year 2000, out of which
500 km will carry more than 1000 vpd, and 900 km of 4-6 m wide roads will
I/ Summary extracted ffrom FinaL Report on the Road Master Plan Project (December 1992).



- 52 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 5
carry more than 2,000 vpd. As a result, in the next ten years, the road
widening problem is likely to affect between 1,500 and 2,000 km of the
network.
B. Pavements
Maior Features
s.        Paved roads in Bangladesh have two mator features:
(a) There -e many combinations of pavements, because many roads have
been built in short sections and have been widened, with the
structure on the widened part not the same as on the old road.
However, due to the lack of stone aggregates, they are almost
always designed using the same technique, relying mainly on brick
aggregates and HBB layers. The natural subgrade is uniform over
wide areas and is generally poorly compacted, with rather poor
bearing characteristics, usually slightly improved by a sand layer.
(b) Pavements are very flexible, deflection measurements give rather
high values, with deflection core values of 1 mm to 1.5 mm, even on
heavily used roads (more than 2,000 vpd). However, the overall
condition of the network is moderate to poor, with no major
evidence of extensive structural failure; no rutting with
longitudinal cracks in the wheel paths has been observed. Core
values of roughness measurements are from IRI 5 to 8. These
features are seen on heavily used roads as well, except for some
routes which are to be reconstructed as part of ongoing projects.
The pavement performance is, to a certain extent, the result of the
characteristics of the traffic: limited axle-loading and its
unchanneled pattern.
6.        Major pavement problems relate to cracking and roughness, and their
main causes are the poor quality of works and deferral of adequate maintenance
action.
Cracking
7.        Surveys and field investigations show that bituminous pavement
surfaces frequently present different types of cracks. Many of them are fine
and appear very soon after completion of work. They are due to premature
bitumen aging, as a result of overheating during mixing, which can be observed
at the work sites. Later, another type of wider crack appears, related to the
fatigue of the bituminous layers.
Rouahness
8.        Road surface roughness is the most serious problem in Bangladesh.
(a) Roughness on new roads mostly occurs on surfaces of manually laid
coatings; the level of roughness is rather high, about 4.3 in IRI
(or about 3,300 mm/km in terms of BI). At the same time, it is
noticed that, on new, mechanically-laid asphalt concrete overlays,



- 53 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 3 of 5
as in ongoing projects, the level of roughness is much lower, about
3.5 in IRI (or 2,500 mm/km in terms of BI).
(b) Roughness on existing roads: the level of roughness is rather high,
due to its initial level and its evolution under traffic. The
rather rapid evolution is due to the underdesign of pavement
structure3 and specifically to the insufficient thickness of the
bituminous layer.
Recommended Action
9.        The major problems of paved roads could be solved by action on
several fronts:
- Improvement of pavement desicrn 2/:
pavement design methods and specifically bituminous layer thickness
definition need to be better adapted to the high levels of traffic
expected on the main roads over the next ten years. Pavement
design review must include the mix design of coatings, which should
be suitable for equipment-based methods on heavily used roads, and
use of mixing plants and finishers to prevent both cracking and
rutting. Better specifications must be defined for some types of
untreated base (boulders, bricks, mixes, etc.). New techniques,
such as surface dressings, should be tested and introduced.
- Imnrovement of construction aualitv:
work supervision must be improved at all road work sites. A
certain minimum of equipment is required to obtain good compaction
of subgrade, to improve temperature control when mixing asphalt in
situ, to obtain well-graded material, good compaction of surfacing,
etc.
- Improvement of maintenance methods:
maintenance methods and optimal intervention thresholds must be
defined to adapt pavement performance to the traffic requirements,
which is a major objective of the RMP.
10.       During the last three years, considerable effort has been made to
reconstruct the most heavily used and deteriorated roads in Bangladesh.
Reconstruction is expensive, and expenditures on this work have doubled. If
maintenance activities are properly scheduled and maintenance strategies
appropriately defined, the progressive adaptation of the network to traffic
requirements should be feasible and a more economical solution to pursue. For
this reason, immediate attention should be given to the maintenance needs of
roads that could disintegrate if not attended to soon and would call for
substantially larger outlays for reconstruction at a somewhat later date.
This is especially true of heavily travelled roads where reconstruction is
expensive in both direct outlays and indirect costs to users while roads are
under reconstruction.
2/ This aspect has also been studied in the recently completed Road Materials and Standards
Study.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 4 of 5
C. Unpaved Roads: IBB and Earth Roads
11.       HsB pavement condition is often poor: roughness can be very high
(IRI 20 and more). No maintenance is carried out on these roads. BEBB
pavement is often used as the first stage in the eventual asphalt paving of a
road in the future, but the upgrading of the HBB to asphalt pavement is rarely
done in time. Deterioration of a HBB pavement under even minimal traffic can
be very fast, generally within five years. As HB joints are not sealed, the
permeability of the unsealed surface and the poorly compacted subgrade and
sand layer lead to rapid deterioration under traffic conditions. When the HBB
pavement condition becomes bad, traffic on the road decreases rapidly and the
road ceases to exist. However, routine maintenance is the main issue for HBB
roads. Maintaining HBB pavements seems difficult, almost impossible, in terms
of road management. The interconnection between traffic and road condition
needs to be analyzed, appropriate timing for paving HBB roads needs to be
defined and upgrading undertaken in time.
12.       Most unpaved roads are earth roads.  Since there is a lack of
aggregate in Bangladesh, there are only a few sections of gravel roads. The
material used for earth roads is what is available locally in various parts of
the country, generally a silty sand or a clay silt. Earth roads are generally
not passable throughout the year and are subject to closure during the monsoon
season. Due to the lack of aggregate, there is probably no means of upgrading
earth roads economically to gravel roads.
13.       A low cost paving solution needs to be defined, but considering the
very low traffic volumes, it would certainly not be worth upgrading all earth
roads to all-weather standard. Maintenance will be the main issue, including
the setting up of an adequate organization under the local authorities and the
method of providing the necessary equipment to make good maintenance possible
(grading, compacting, drainage, etc.).
D. Flood Protection for Roads and Bridces
14.       only a small proportion of the main network is concerned with flood
protection measures (raising of the embankments), but among them are some of
the major national and regional routes. While only a limited - but not
negligible - proportion of bridges (13t) is hydraulically inadequate (even
recently constructed bridges), the majority (50%) of the bridges are lacking
in bed and slope protection works and are highly exposed to failure risks in
case of flooding. The extent of flood damage in an average year confirms the
importance of improvements in this area.
E. Bridge Condition and Width
15.       Due to lack of maintenance, mainly routine maintenance, a fairly
high proportion of bridges (18W) are in bad structural condition and need
major repairs. About 40% of the bridges, on roads more than 5.5 m wide, are
narrow bridges.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 5 of 5
F. Ferry Crossinqs
16.       In spite of a fairly rapid pace of constructing bridges in the last
few years, out of the 84 ferries which come under RHD, 34 concern the national
and regional road networks. At 11 locations, at time of RMP study, bridges
were under construction or just completed. At many locations the rivers are
so wide that building bridges involves considerable investment and cannot even
be considered for 50 of the remaining 73 ferries under RHD, because they have
very low traffic (less than 10 vpd). Concurrently with constructing bridges,
ferry service improvement must remain a principal concern of RHD.
G. Conclusions
17.       Making up the backlog of maintenance, especially periodic
maintenance, undoubtedly has the highest priority in Bangladesh. This is where
the economic returns are highest. This strategy is also the one which will
minimize outlays over the long term. Nevertheless, road widening, raising of
embankments, improvement and reconstruction of pavements, reconstruction of
bridges, and bridging ferry crossings are high priority works in all ongoing
development and improvement projects. Also, in order to derive full benefit
from periodic maintenance outlays, some expenditures on upgrading and/or
rehabilitation may be necessary (e.g. intervening sections may not be
technically appropriate for overlay periodic maintenance work), and these
should be judiciously planned to maximize the benefits of the investments
undertaken. The medium and long term requirements for the different areas of
road and road transport improvements have to be regularly and periodically
assessed and priorities established to help in the systematic, long term
development of the Bangladesh road network.



56 -
ANNEX 2.3
SIZE OF VEHICLE FLEET IN BANGLADESH, 1988-91
(Number of Vehicles)
Type of
Vehicle                            1988          1989         1990          1991
Rg9istered Motorized Road Vehicles
Motor Car                        35,443       38,278        41,340       43,960
Jeep/Station wagon/Microbus      23,049       24,893        26,884       28,673
Taxi                              1,622        1,719         1,822        1,914
Bus                              10,643       11,175        11,734       11,982
Mini-Bus                          6,233         6,856        7,542         7,893
Truck                            21,341       22,621        23,978       24,904
Auto-Rickshaw/Tempo              17,429       18,562        19,769       23,430
Motorcycle                       97,639      108,379       120,301      130,292
Others                            7,373         7,703        7,890        8,040
Subtotal           220,772       261.260                    281,088
Mon-motorized Road Vehicles
Cycle Rickshaw                  698,000
Bullock Cart                    160,000
Subtotal           858,000
Total            1"078 772
Source:  BRTA, Finance & Development (Sept. 1992)
Note    The above numbers are likely in excess of the actual number of vehicles on the road as there are
no records of cancelled vehicles.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2.4
CROSS-SECTION STANDARDS FOR RHD ROADS
A. Existing Standards
Pavement    Shoulder        Total       Number
Category                                  Width         Width        Width         of
(meters)     (me_ers)    (meters)      Lanes
National Roads                                   6.7            5.5 a/      12.2         2
Regional Roads                                   5.5            5.5 a/     11.0          2
Feeder Roads A                                   3.7            3.6 a/       7.3         1
S. Standards Reconmended in Road Materials and Standazds study S/
Pavement    Shoulder        Total       Number
Category                                  Width         Width        Width         of
(meters)     (meters)    (meters)      Lanes
National HiQhwavs
Category A                                  7.4            4.8 k/    12.2            2
Category B                                  6.7            5.5 a/    12.2            2
Recgional Hicrhwavs
Category A                                  6.2            3.6 b/       9.8          2
Category B                                  5.5            5.5 a/    11.0            2
Feeder Roads A
Category A                                  6.2            3.6 bl       9.8          2
Category B                                  3.8            6.0 b/       9.8          1
Source: RMSS
a/  Soft shoulders.
i/  Combination of hard ard soft shoulders.
SJ  These represent the main classifications for single carriageway roads proposed in RNSS. Foreign-aided projects
involving rehabilitation, reconstruction and new construction generally follow standards along these lines.



- 58 --
ANNEX 2.5
ROAD ACCIDENTS IN BANGLADESH, 1983-92
(Number)
Year                    Fatalities              Injuries             Total
Accidents
1983                        955                 2,184                 3,369
1984                      1,220                 2,477                 3,790
1985                      1,415                 3,223                 4,130
1986                      1,984                 4,127                 4,300
1987                      1,443                 2,696                 3,563
1988                      1,431                 2,571                 3,S10
1989                      1,301                 1,626                 2,990
1990                      1,296                 1,724                 2,547
1991                      1,107                 1,698                 2,450
1992                      1,609                 2,370                 3,111
Source: BRTA



Bagldesh Road Transpt Authbrity
CHAIRM
AFFAIRS 
0 hECTOR                                                                           DIRECTOR
AND CONM  AND  Accmmls   AND STANDARDS                                    AMSTRATI             LICENSING                         OFFICES"~~~~~~~~~~~~~OflCEOF 
ANINVICESTRATION         SUDOE                         AND ENFORCEMENT                      SANDARD    IICENSITG
F.eW Office Locations;    Dhaka, Nmensingh, Tangai, Chittaowg  fterpmeti, Noakhahi. ComiIta. Sylhet. Raishaht. Pabna, -ora, Oinajpur, tanpSr.
Khu*na. K_htsa, Barisal. Fari4au, Jessore
Source: BETA
DEPUY DIECTZDENT  I IREcZ        OEIY ORECT                        DEN  fi ECI



Roads and Highways Deportment
Overall Stmctre (Headquartes, Planningn 8D-evlopment. Bridges and Mechankcl)
Chitef EngIn.e, RHO
| Addl. C. E.                   Pl Addi. C. E,                                                    Adn C E.
E9        1                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mehncal
AddICE.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               ...nng
3 Dvisons                        4 D0 1siwm                       3 Disons                          2 Divisions                      3 Olvisons
S.E.        EE:                  SE.          EEP PnnIng          S.E.         EES.EEE Establhets   S E.         EE Dhaka            S E          EE Dhaka
EE  I          Plnig        E                     sals-          and               Woilkshop    EE Mymensincl       Frr         EE Construction
_EE I1 S;  ,=a       afndmk       EEE a wEngg        , nwtadbasd_    Adnrdnisration      Cirle    _Crb                             _EE Syfttt
C*de        ElE-111Puogamm-   EE Road                      OeAdrnrstra- DD   Secuty                 DhakaDak
Eastern
S.E      3 Dvis2ns3 Divisions
I bdDe   I [EE-I Bd1lDa Ot3ssg   EE Moitodng-lI g     Cliet        EA Dhaka             SE.         EE Chittagongs |E                 EE Ktruna
EE' unow  S.E.  EE Monito"41  Astolr-  EA Ra=shahi    Workshop    EE Rangamati F Cry               EE Barisal
EE.111 Ork[go 00990    Monitoring    EE Land Record  cutturist     Cire PPLS = P  eg a
ard~~ EE P=crmr                      Exttavoe Kngiulna
Zone saoon                                   (id
3 Divisins                                                                                         3 Divisions          S E          6 Oteiseos
EE R.seach &Economist-I                                                               Equipment
(SfE)       E  Tesastn           Sei&Eonms-                        Director                         S.E          EE Santahar         Conttrol    EE EC Dhraka
RoS)ad"                              m-o       Economnist-Ill    L  Audit &                          Workshop    EE Rajshahi           n           EE EC Chntagorng
Resarc       EE Soid & Sub-soil    Economnist   Maonagenit-        Accounts                      L  irce         EE lhwlna           Proc~we      EE EC "
Laboratory    EE Ouatayonttllkmto  e                                                                                                 Circl        EE P&SDhaka
(BRRL)          at d Training   I3aa                                                                                                             E  &SCitgn
Addi., C E. = Additionl Chief Engineer  E.C  =Equipment Control
S E  =Supenntending Engineer   P&S =Procurement & Stofage
E E = Executive Engineer
D D. = DeputyODitectot
E.A. = Executiv Abgrlcufturist                                                       0



Roads mid   syDsPad
AiUCE                ~~~~~~~Adi.C E.                                             AddCE  iC                     Adi CE                        AM   CEAdIE
CMagong              ~~~~~~cunib                   Ua                               stNR WkJhini                                                                           ana
ZoeZn Zone                                                                                oezone                                                   Zn
ROMmians                     ZOvua,IMlan                                                2Muon                        2Mss                          2Donwos                      2 Onwsions
SE.       EEPF&D             SE         EE P8.             SE.       EE PSD             SE,         EE ?8D           S E         EE P&O            S E        EE P&D            S E         EE P6D
PO&E      EE MIE             PMSE       EEW&EFU&E                     EWE MAEPME                    EE MSE           FMSE        EEME              PMSE       EEMSE             PMSE        EE MSE
Somalans                     3ohdIva                      40Malans                     30bllan                       3Wwlsion                     3Oivsoam                      3DvsOns
E.EEECorll                                                                              io                  E          E3S
SE.  IE            SE.      ~~EE 0D8aft          S.E.       EENwtskg          S.E         EE R*aplah       SE          EERg                E              K                        E au                      r
QE Ua                    om EE YSNZOrM                Dh.-      EE Mw*             R*tJp      EE                R           EE Bogr           Khulna     EE Bageflot        BaEisal          a
EEo  i h"w'            R~oad      E ch.nw            Road       EE h*mlNq          Road       EE Nawabgaf       R          ifBO9r             Road       EE Salkiwa        RioadE  hlI-
IlMi C     i EaaC.d Cuc                 EE                                                Ad*dl CC EEa zbC  E    Gawa                              circle CErcle                            E FeIozpu
9Ckcb                                 R_  K Nsaualn
Zane   Oadalans                                 Zcreian        alone                                        Zenelshan,  3me OMelane                3flh4sion                    3   jDis3
S_E        2                                                                        .           .                 ....                                
SE.        EEF&D             S.         EE                SE         EEMP D           | SE.        EEPatm            SE          EE DEIPSiO        SE          E |    esOse     SE          EEPFaOp
Rav-   E IfE bIim            S       _tu  E1E              PIUEa   _ EEll FMMM                     E116E             OPE Set     EMIE Th ga        JessoEe    EE Jenadal        FaPMu    | EE Gopa|gani
Mai                  P48~~Rod    EE    za          sI10h      FE browa           Road       EE Natix                     EEa  i N4'amau    Road        EE Kusfia         Road        EE MadatIpi
C.Cab                          Sb       Ei tSSflaw        ROd        EE KSWI6eglI       CacbD                        Ccla                          Cluie                        Circle
Cclei      EE Neth.on
2OMsansi                                                                                                     Ad  C E =Addasona Chid Enginee      PM8E .Plannin. MOnnoi mg& Evauajaun
SE.         EEi"a-a                                                                                                          S E = SuMper*ndg Enguuer         P&O -Plarnurg& oesrg
KWW  dOws-I                                                                                   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E S  EsecutveEngrier  WE  tA lmomuog & Eva3ualon
eI m an     EEY J"a0
Road           cuf
CINlC1



Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory
EE RESEARCH                EE SOIL AND 'SUB SOIL                       EE rJuALttY CONTROL     
AND TESTING                   tNVESTIGATION                                    AND                                    AE ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION
DIVISION                      DIVISION                               TRAINING DIVISION                                
SDE               I              SD                               A SDE            I        10 Fietd Laboratories              Technical         4
AE               2               AE                2               AE              2         AE                   9             Secretariat       3
SAE               I              Geologist         I               ARo             4         ARO                 9              Support Staff    8
ARO             ARO                                4               Support Staff   8         Support Staff at:  15
Support Staff   19               support Staff   18                                           Chittagong
Rangamati *
Sythet
Mymensingh
Barisat
Jessore
Rajshahi
Rangpur
Khagrachari
SE    *   Superintending Engineer
EE    a   Executive Engineer
SDE   -   Sub-Oivisional Engineer
AE         Assistant Engineer
SAE   a   Sub-Assistant Engineer
ARO   *   Assistant Research officer
* lot presently operating.
Source:       BRRL



- 63 -
ROADS AND HIGHWAYS DEPARTMENT STAFFING, APRIL 1994
(Number of People)
A. ENGINEERS                  ------------Sanctioned Posts-------------
Civil Civil/Proiect a/ Mechanical Subtotal   Filled
Posts
Chief Engineer                   1          -                  -          1                1
Addl. Chief Engineer             9          2                  1         12               11
Superintending Engineer         28          1                  6         35               35
Executive Engineer              88        11                 19         118              118
Sub-Divisional Engineer   162             19                 40         221              221
Assistant Engineer             169         10                 21        200              127
Total  (engineers)        457         43                 87        587              513
B. NON-ENGINEERS                                   Sanctioned Posts               Filled Posts
officers
Class I                                                  24                          13
Class II                                                 21                          18
Non-officers
Class III                                            5,196                        3,829
Class IV                                             3,220                        2,481
Total  (non-engineers)                               8,461                        6,341
Total (permanent)                                     ,048                        6^.84
C. TEMPORARY STAFF                                                                Filled Posts
Work-charged in the field k/
Class III                                                                         1,501
Class IV                                                                          3,020
Staff under muster roll c/                                                            7,349
Total (temporary)                                                               11,870
Total (permanent & temporary)                                                   18.724
Source: RHO
j/  Engineers assigned to projects, holding charge of position.
y Temporary staff for projects hired on monthly basis. However, they are effectiveLy permanent staff but with no
retirement benefits. Work-charged staff are given preference in case of vacancies.
St Temporary staff hired on daily basis. However, they are effectivety permanent staff but with no retirement
benefits. Muster roll staff hired since 1988, numbering scm 1700, were recently removed from RHODs payroll.



ANNEX 2.10
Page 1 of 7
OVERVIEW OF RECENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO RHD 1/
1.        Technical assistance (TA) projects can be broadly divided into
three classes according to the primary objectives. The most common type has
the completion of civil works as the primary aim. Historically, such projects
include technology transfer objectives through counterpart training but have
frequently failed to live up to expectations for a variety of reasons, one of
the main reasons being the conflicting requirements to complete the civil
works to time and budget and the time and effort required for effective
training. Projects in Bangladesh have probably been less successful in this
respect than in many other countries because of the greater difficulties in
executing civil works.
2.        The second type of projee.t involves direct training. Here, transfer
of knowledge is a primary objective but the development of an "tin-house"
training facility is also addressed in most projects of this type.
3.        The third type of project involves institutional or operational
reviews by a foreign consultant. The initial outputs from such projects are
recommendations for reorganization at various levels, together with training.
The second stage is expected to be a TA project to help with the
reorganization. To date we could find no recent project that had progressed
beyond the first stage although several were awaiting comments from the
Government of Bangladesh and a major project for improving the operation of
the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority was about to begin.
4.        In the following sections of this Annex some of the most recent
projects of all three types are discussed. Particular emphasis has been
placed on the direct assistance to the Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory
(BRRL).
A. Technical Assistance to BRRL
Institutional Development
5.        In 1978 ODA provided funds for one year for an engineer and
technician to assist BRRL. The task was to reorganise the laboratory,
refurbish testing equipment, train laboratory staff in all aspects of
laboratory testing, and begin formal training courses for staff from RHD. The
original objectives of this project were all achieved and, in addition,
considerable technical assistance was also given to RHD for ongoing civil
works projects. Two manuals were produced, one on laboratory testing and one
on road design, which were eventually used extensively throughout RHD. The
project was considered successful, and this success prompted the planning of a
two year extension of the programme to address wider problems identified
during the study and to continue the training programme. This second project
was eventually financed by IDA.
I/ Overview prepared during pre-appraisal of project in December 1992.



- 65 -
ANMEX 2.10
Page 2 of 7
6.        For various reasons the second project did not begin until 1983.
The project lasted for four years with a total input of just under 100 staff
months of expert assistance. The objectives of the project were to further
improve the operations of BRRL, to explore ways in which the standards of road
construction could be increased, and to make as much progress in this
direction as possible. The objectives were somewhat open-ended but, given the
uncertain nature of project planning in Bangladesh, this was understandable.
7.        As before, the project included the purchase of laboratory test
equipment, but also included road construction equipment for training and
demonstration purposes as well as for use on construction projects. The
equipment was valued at $ 1.Q million at 1983 prices and its arrival left the
laboratory reasonably well equipped to carry out most of the tests likely to
be required. Additional equipment was supplied in 1986 under a UK commodity
aid budget to equip eleven regional test laboratories with basic facilities;
these laboratories were set up by BRRL over the succeeding 18 months.
8.        Outputs.
(i) Technical advice. Throughout the project the consultants provided
advice to RHD on a variety of topics. Detailed technical advice,
including designs, was provided on 26 projects, testing and quality
control services were provided on a further 17 major projects, and
various sets of specifications, advice notes, manuals and
guidebooks were written including advisory papers to the Ministry
of Communications on 'the need for planned road maintenance' and
'improvements in the construction industry', both subjects of
larger TA initiatives in the succeeding four years. Amongst the
manuals produced were a bridge design manual for reinforced and
pre-stressed concrete bridges and a Bailey bridge design manual.
The latter was translated into Bangla and 1000 copies were
distributed throughout RHD. Most importantly, the consultant
prepared a Let of Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Works
which have been adopted by the RHD. Unfortunately these
specifications are not used extensively because of institutional
constraints associated with contracting procedures and construction
control (see paragraph 60 and following).
(ii)  Training.  With the exception of 10 specialist courses given by
visiting lecturers, the training for degree level engineers was
carried out by the consultants. BRRL staff as well as the
consultants presented the courses for junior staff. In all, 30
separate courses were completed and just under 900 student weeks of
training were provided, 530 at engineer level (degree graduates),
205 at sub-assistant engineer level (diploma) and 150 at supervisor
level. Since the end of the project in 1988, BRRL staff have
completed 12 more courses amounting to a further 227 student weeks
of training plus industrial placement training for 151 polytechnic
students over periods of either one or two months duration.
Assessment
9.        Assessment of the success of the project is hampered by lack of
quantifiable assessment procedures built into the project. There is little



- 66 -
ANNEX 2.10
Page 3 of 7
doubt that the students benefitted considerably from the training and the
numbers of engineers who received training was high (150 engineers out of a
total RHD complement of about 500). It was apparent that the engineers
originally lacked practical skills, and courses which included hands-on
experience were always well received.
10.       The transfer of training skills to BRRL staff was successful in
that by the end of the project some of the counterpart staff were able to
present lectures and training courses to more junior staff and some of the
BRRL technicians themselves were also able to pass on their skills but the
quality of this training could not be assessed during this study.
11.       Problems arose over more practical issues such as the lack of
accommodation and catering facilities at the BRRL site. A new hostel has
since been built with rooms for 20 students but it is not clear whether this
has solved all problems of this nature.
12.       Late and non-arrival of equipment through bureaucratic delays
caused difficulties and wasted much valuable time. This was the single
greatest problem for the consultants. The greatest problem for the trainees
and, ultimately, for the success of the project, was the realization that they
were unable to put much of their new knowledge to good use because of lack of
equipment and because of existing Departmental procedures. However, it is
encouraging that the desire was strong among the trainees and that, given the
opportunity, implementation of improved practices through increased knowledge
should occur.
13.       The Departmental policy of moving staff on a regular basis also
caused difficulties and wasted resources. Special skills are necessary for
training; not only must the subject be thoroughly understood by the trainer,
but presentational skills usually take time and effort to develop. It is a
serious waste of resources to transfer either the tutors, in whom much has
been invested, or the trained engineers, who cannot then use their new
knowledge effectively, unless the transfers are properly planned so that
skills are passed on to successors in a way that makes the whole process
sustainable.
14.       The technical advice and the testing and design services provided
by the consultant to RHD were of great value, and this aspect of the project
was very successful. However, the transfer of such problem solving skills to
counterpart staff is a very long-term educational process which could not be
addressed fully during the project, and in any event, any progress was
subsequently nullified by staff movement.
15.       Post project evaluation of BRRL.
(i) Training. Following the departure of the consultants, training
courses at BRRL have continued at a reduced level. The success of
such courses is difficult to assess. Facilities for providing
course material to students are poor and the problem of staff
transfers has resulted in the loss of the staff who had acquired
the skills to prepare and deliver effective training. The ability
of the present staff is unknown.



- 67 -
&N_X 2.10
Page 4 of 7
(ii)  Testincq.  It was hoped that the establishment of field laboratories
would increase the level of testing and materials control carried
out by the Department. The Table below shows some evidence of
this, but the increase is not large and does not indicate that
significant improvements have occurred. Most of the tests continue
to be concerned with the approval of raw materials and not with the
quality of the end products. This, of course, is not the fault of
BRRL and remains one of the major institutional constraints to
satisfactory progress in improving quality and standards.
Summary of Materials Testing (Source BRRL records)
Laboratory       1987      1988     1989      1990      1991      1992
Ranglamate           -         -         -       192       118       408
Sylhet               -         -         -       1067      2061     1175
Comilla              -         -         -         -        -       1310
Rajshahi             -         -         -       328       316       424
Chittagong           -         -         -       409       953      1815
Jessore              -         -         -         -       1704     2827
Mymensing            _         _         _         _        -       1260
Rangpan              _         _         _         -        94       286
Basisal              -         -         -       202       221       237
Dhaka               7244     4877      8641      8090      3794     4757
Totals              7244     4877      8641     10288      9261    14499*
* Increased by the RMMS Study
B. Road Materials and Standards Study (EEC)
The Proiect
16.       This study was funded by the European Economic Community (EEC) and
carried out by a consortium of three consultants between October 1990 and June
1992. The study was wide-ranging and covered the following areas:
(i)  inventory of road building materials
(ii)  recommendations for pavement design
(iii)  revision of geometric standards
(iv)  review of axle load legislation
(v) recommendations for overlay design
(vi)  maintenance standards
(vii)  recommendations for revised specifications
The topics were well researched so that the outputs were well tailored to the
needs of Bangladesh. Some on-the-job training was carried out but little



- 68 -
ANNX 2.10
Page 5 of 7
formal training. The project was successful in terms of the quality of work
done and the standard of most of the outputs, but it is too soon to judge how
much of the work is taken up by RHD. It will be an important component of the
institutional development program under the proposed project to ensure that
the results of the study are used by RHD and that a significant number of the
recommendations are taken up.
Implementation
17.       One of the major constraints to the implementation of the outputs
of TA projects appears to be the time taken for GOB approval of the reports
and the development of an action plan to implement all or some of the
findings. in particular, the full implementation of manuals and
specifications, once approved, should be of high priority, and funds should be
made available for printing such documents for distribution amongst all levels
of staff who are in a position to implement the new or revised procedures. It
is suggested that BRRL, who is currently given responsibility for skill
training on an ad-hoc basis, should be responsible for dissemination of such
documents and should act as coordinators for all such activities. Currently,
as a result of overlap between projects, several consultants and other
concerned parties are often involved in reviewing methods, standards,
specifications and designs. Coordination of these activities is essential to
ensure that the best practices are incorporated into official manuals. This
appears to be an important role for BRRL, and staff of suitable calibre should
be appointed for this purpose.
C. Institutional Sunport for Road and Road Transport (UNDP/ADB)
Technical Assistance to the Banaladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA)
18.       This project has several components concerned separately with
'roads' and 'road transport'. The first phase of this project was carried out
by the Overseas Project Centre of Vicroads during late 1991 under ADB fi.ance.
The objectives were to review the operation of BRTA which is the organization
responsible for transport legislation, regulation and enforcement, and to
recommend improvements. The output of the project was a series of
recommendations as required by the terms of reference, but little transfer of
knowledge to counterpart staff occurred during this initial phase and no
progress has yet been made on phase 2, during which the major institutional
changes are expected to take place, although it is understood that phase 2 is
about to begin.
Road Develonment
19.       This component comprised two projects namely 'Road Administration'
and 'Road Maintenance'. The Road Maintenance component comprised a review of
the Planning and Development Wing of RHD and a review of the Rajshahi Pilot
Scheme together with the drafting of a series of guidebooks, a set of
specifications for bituminous materials, and a highway maintenance manual.
The training component of the project has involved 133 officers from four
zones and further courses are planned before the end of the project.
20.       The success of the project is difficult to estimate. The content of
the courses seems to be suitable but it appears that no real effort has been



- 69 -
ANNEX 2.10
Page 6 of 7
made to train the potential trainers. The institutional review has yet to be
accepted by the GOB, and it remains to be seen whether this review leads to
sustainable improvements through either additional TA input to facilitate
changes within the organisation or through self-generated changes.
21.       The Road Administration project was completed in 1992 with the
production of 4 reports concerned with duties, procedures, execution of works,
schedule of power, accounting rules, an accounts manual and monitoring. The
majority of the reports appear to be merely a description of the procedures
-currently being employed by RHD although some recommendations for changes are
included. No transfer of skills has taken place to date, and the
recommendations have not been accepted.
22.       It would appear that the scope of the work and its short timeframe
almost certainly mean that there was insufficient time for the consultant to
take proper account of all the views of key RHD staff, and therefore it is
unlikely that the recommendations will be sufficiently in tune with their
ideas to be accepted, except perhaps in part.
D. Road Master Plan Study (UNDP/ADB)
23.       This major project was carried out by a consortium of three
consultants and resulted in the publication of the master plan for road
development. The project was based on a maintenance investment analysis of
the roads within the jurisdiction of the RHD (national, regional and type A
feeder roads) using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model/Version
III (HDM). The report identified maintenance and rehabilitation options for
the entire network and also addressed,
(i) the replacement of ferries with bridges,
(ii) single lane bridges,
(iii) narrow roads,
(iv) the raising of embankment heights,
and a number of other issues. In accordance with the usual practice, the
consultants were also required to carry out on-the-job training for
counterpart staff as well as training abroad for staff responsible for
operating the HDM program.
24.       The project itself had a very tight timescale which gave little
time for on-the-job training. To our knowledge, this has not been quantified
or assessed. There is, however, no doubt that the overall project was
successful within the constraints of the timescale, and the staff who were
trained in the UK and France received a thorough grounding in the use of HDM.
There is an urgent need to consolidate this and to press ahead with the full
adoption of HDM together with the principles of network maintenance and
rehabilitation planning, as well as the adoption of economic principles for
transport planning. It was the success of the technical aspects of this
project that has been, in part, the catalyst for some of the proposed TA
components of RRMP-II.
25.       The practice of moving staff every 3 years or so seems to have
affected this project. It should be agreed up-front that staff who have
received expensive training are kept in post for at least 3 years or until



- /'l) -
ANNEX 2.10
Page 7 of 7
such time as they have themselves passed on the technical skills they have
learned to other members of staff. This may require the development of an
improved system of career management and needs to be included within the terms
of reference for the TA component of RRMP-II.
E. Summary of Recent Technical Assistance Experience in RHD
26.       Almost all aid-funded projects include a requirement for the
foreign experts to train counterpart staff in the skills needed to carry out
the projects. This often results in a conflict of interest for the
consultants, who are under pressure to deliver the main project outputs. It is
usually found that technology transfer is time consuming and detrimental to
the progress of the civil works. In order to encourage technology transfer,
quantifiable outputs need to be included in the terms of reference and treated
with a similar degree of importance as physical outputs. To enable this to
occur successfully, aid agencies need to reassess project objectives and
procurement strategies to allow consultants the time and flexibility to
deliver an appropriate training package.
27.       Technology transfer and training activities in Bangladesh have
suffered from the same problems and constraints that have been identified in
other review documents. Projects specifically aimed at training and
institutional support have been moderately successful in the teaching of
skills and techniques, but there is room for improvement especially in the
areas of coordination of study outputs, dissemination of manuals, guidebooks
and specifications, staff training itself, and optimum use of trained staff.
There is a strong case to be made for a central unit for staff training which
will also have responsibility for coordinating TA outputs and issuing official
manuals and other documents.
28.       Unfortunately the projects have been less successful in achieving
significant improvements in the operation of RHD. Institutional constraints
of a deep and fundamental nature have prevented the implementation of improved
methods and application of new skills. Consultant advisers have been unable
to influence this despite wide recognition of the problems and an apparent
desire by some senior government officials to effect change. Thus consultants
and TA experts have tended to concentrate on either merely identifying the
problems and making recommendations, or c-i technology transfer at the
individual level.



- 71 
AME  2.11
ACTUAL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES OF RED, FY86-93
(million Taka)
Year                  Develocment
Aided    Non-aided    Total            Total          Total        RHD
Projects  Projects  Development   Maintenance  Establishment  Total
1985/86        326       1810       2136             476            184         2796
1986/87        996       1521       2517             512            222         3251
1987/88       1658       1481       3139             653            253         4045
1988/89       3518       1718       5236             810 a/         248         6294
1989/90       4021       2266       6287             932            294         7513
1990/91       3093        774       3867             982            340         5189
1991/92       5299       1674       6973            1401            392         8766
1992/93 b/   7454         998       8452            1500            320        10272
Year                                       Maintenance
Staff        Ferries        Force Account      Contracted
Salaries     (including       Work/Other         Periodic         Total
operation)       Expenses c/       Maint. Work
1985/86         51           107              123                 195           476
1986/87         61           134              124                 193           512
1987/88         70           157              139                 287           653
1988/89         77           206              185                 312           810 a/
1989/90         93           264              162                 413           932
1990/91        139           213              198                 432           982
1991/92        164           209              212                 816          1401
1992/93 k/    173            230              185                 912          1500
Source: RHD
pj  Including Taka 30 mitLion in flood damage repair.
b/  Planned.
St  Including materials for force account maintenance, repair and operation of vehicles and equipment, and
miscelLaneous expenses.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2.12
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED DEVELOPMENT, MAINTENANCE AND FERRY EXPENDITURES OF RHD, FY86-99
(million Taka)
Maintenance
Routine                                            Periodic
Year                 Equipment&        Sta f
Materials   Transport       Perm    Temp      Misc      Totat     Contract    Overhead    Total
(1)         (2)         (3)      (4)       (5)       (6)         (7)          (8)         (9)
(1)to(5)                            (7)+(8)
Actual
1985/86      75            18          60        51       30        234         195          25         220
1986/87      62           33           60        61       29        245         193          32         225
1987/88       77          35           60        70       27        269         287          39         326
1988/89      82           41           60        77       62        322         312          38         350
1989/90       70          47           60        93       45        315         413          47         460
1990/91      65           82           60       139       51        397         432          56         488
1991/92       78          101          60       164       33        436         816          66         882
Budget
1992/93      80           100          60       173        5        418         912          56         968
ProIected
1993/94      90          100           60       175       20        445        1200          60        1260
1994/95      100          100          60       175       20        455        1800          70        1870
1995/96      110          100          60       175       20        465        2100          80        2180
1996/97      120          100          60       175       20        475        2300          85        2385
1997/98      130         100           60       175       20        485        2400          90        2490
1998/99      140         100           60       175       20        495        2400          95        2495
Develoement a/                          Maintenance
As & of                    Total
Year      Aided    Nonaided    Overhead         Total      Total       Dev.   Total       Ferry        RHD
(10)       (11)         (12)         (13)        (14)        (15)    (16)       (17)        (18)
(10)to(12)  (6)+(9)  (14)/(13) (14)/(18)           (13)+C14)+(17)
Actual
1985/86      326       1810          99           2235          454       20       16       107        2796
1986/87       996      1521         130           2647          470       18       14       134        3251
1987/88      1658      1481         154           3293          595       18       15       157        4045
1988/89     3518       1718         150           5386          702 b/  13         11       206        6294
1989/90     4021       2266         187           6474          m         12       10       264        7513
1990/91     3093        774         224           4091          885      22        17       213        5189
1991/92     5299       1674         266           7239         1318       18       15       209        8766
Budset
1992/93     7454        998         204           8656         1386       16       13       230       10272
Prolected
1993/94      7499       857         200           8556         1705       20       16       235       10496
1994/95      7900       900         200           9000         2325       26       20       240       11565
1995/96     8100        900         200           9200         2645       29       22       245       12090
1996/97     8300        900         200           9400         2860      30        23       250       12510
1997/98     8300        900         200           9400         2975      32        24       250       12625
1998/99     8300        900         200           9400         2990       32       24       250       12640
Source: RHDO  RMP, TYRIP, Bank staff estimates.
Note: Perm = Wages for permanent staff
Temp  Wages for temporary staff
pj Budget and projections include only allocations made directly to RHD (i.e., eXclude block aLlocations).
k/ Including Taka 30 million in flood damage repair.



PROJECT DETAILS
REHABILITATION COMPONENT
DESCRIPTION OF UORKS, ESTIMATED COSTS AND PROCUREMENT PACKAGING
Contract    Highway    Section                    Description of Works                                                Length       Base Cost FUSS million)
Nwiber      Number      Location                                                                                      (km)        Local    Foreign   Total
I       N6-C        Dasuria-Natore           Road widening to 7.3 m carriageway with 2.5 m hard                    39.0         7.4        6.1       13.5
(Natore Section)         shoulders.  New base course and 7.5 cm thick asphalt
concrete wearing course.
2       N6-C        Natore Bypass            New road construction, 7.3 m carriageway with 2.5 m                    5,9         1.7        1.8        3.5
hard shoulders. 7.5 cm thick asphalt concrete wearing
course.
3       N6-C        Natore-Ra}shahi          Road widening to 7.3 m carriageway with 2.5 m hard                    36.5         6.3        5.2       11.5
shoutders. New base course and 7.5 cm thick asphalt
concrete wearing course.
4       R680        Raishahi-Mawabgani        Remove old concrete road sections.  Reconstruction                   44.0         5.8        4.6       10.4                 1
of 6.0 m carriageway with 1.9 m hard shoulders.
New base course and 7.5 cm thick asphalt concrete                                                                           4
wearing course. The road link includes a 12 km
new alignment with new road construction, 6.0 m
carriageway and 1.9 m hard shoulders; wearing course
is 7.5 cm thick asphalt concrete.
5       NS-G        Rangpur-Saidpur           Road widening to 6.7 m carriageway with 1.3 m hard                   34.5         4.3        3.4        7.7
shoulders. New base course and 7.5 cm thick asphalt
concrete wearing course.
6       N5-G         Saidpur Bypass           New road construction, 7.3 m carriageway with 2.5                      8.0         1.6       2.2        3.8
(Northern Route)         hard shoulders.  7.5 cm thick asphalt concrete wearing
course.
Total                           167.9        27.1      23.3       50.4
Note: Costs exclude land acquistion and resettlement.
r >
4-z
Lo
0~
tt.  -



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT DETAILS
FIRST YEAR PERIODIC MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
ROAD SECTIONS, ESTIMATED COSTS AND PROCUREMENT PACKAGING
Contract    Road Location                  Type of          Length          Base Cost
Number                                  Project Road          (km)        (US$ millior.)
Southwest Region
1     a) Jhenaidah-Jessore                Wide             45.5             3.4
1     b} Jessore-Khulna                    Wide            62.5             4.7
Subtotal                                    108.0             8.1
2     a) Navaran-Satkhira               Narrow             42.5             2.9
2     b) Satkhira-Bhetkhali             Narrow             56.5             3.8
Subtotal                                     99.0             6.7
3     a) Faridpur-Bhanga                   Wide            32.2             3.7
3     b) Bhanga-Tekerhat                  Wide             19.4             2.1
Subtotal                                     51.6             5.8
4     a) Tekerhat-Mostafapur               Wide            16.0             1.5
4     b) Mostafapur-Barisal               Wide             59.2             5.1
Subtotal                                     75.2             6.6
Northwest Region
5     a) Saidpur-Beldanga                 Wide             23.0             2.2
5     b) Rangpur-Bypass                   Wide              7.4             0.9
5     c) Rangpur-Kurigram               Narrow             32.0             2.1
5     d} Palashbari-Gaibandha           Wide/
Narrow            21.0              1.5
Subtotal                                     83.4             6.7
Total                                    417.2             33.9
gtM:  Wide roads: carriageway width 5 meters or more.
Narrow roads: carriageway width less than 5 meters.
Estimated costs based on bid prices.
Basic works comprise: (a) preparation of road surface including pothole repair, crack filting, Leveling
and edge repair; (b) application of asphalt concrete overLay, 5-10 cm in thickness depending on road
condition and traffic, using hot pre-mixed asphalt laid with a paving machine (wide roads) or manually
(narrow roads) and compacted with rubber tire rollers; and (c) finishing of shoulders including
bringing up to grade and rotling.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 1 of 11
TERMS OF REFERENCE
SUPERVISORY CONSULTANT FOR RRMP-II ROAD WORKS
1.        OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the consultancy services described herein
are,
(a) To supervise, with the RHD technical staff, the implementation of
and procurement activities for the civil works of rehabilitation/-
construction of about 165 km of selected road stretches on National
and Regional Highways in north west of Bangladesh (FY 95-97) and
preparation of design and supervision of additional about 100 km of
roads to be selected for widening.
(b) to assist RHD with the supervision of the implementation of and
procurement activities for a four year periodic maintenance program
(overlays and reseals) of about 2000 km of selected road sections
in Southwest and Northwest Bangladesh (FY 94-97), including annual
updating of the Road Master Plan for western Bangladesh using the
HDM 3 model, and preparation of work programs, detailed engineering
and bid documents for 2000 km of road stretches to be implemented
in the last 3 years of the above 4 year program and first year
following the program (FY 95-98); and
(c) to develop capability within RED, through on-the-job training and
other means as appropriate, in planning and executing maintenance
works, with a view to RED staff taking increased responsibility for
works over the period of consultancy services.
2.        SCOPE OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
General Recuiremerts: The principal services to be provided by the
consultants are set forth below. They are indicative of general tasks to be
performed by them. The consultant shall perform all necessary technical and
economical study (pertaining to the requirement of the project for both the
Rehabilitation Components and Periodic Maintenance Components individually),
field survey and investigation, laboratory testing and related works,
procurement activities and other works described below to attain the stated
objectives. The consultant can use the engineering, traffic and other data
provided by reports from related previous studies, but responsibility for the
accuracy of data and their analysis and foi all findings and conclusions shall
rest with the consultant. The consultant shall perform his duties in
accordance with accepted professional standards, utilizing sound international
standard engineering and economic practices. Scope of services for the
rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and training components are detailed
below:



76 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 11
2. A      REHABILITATION COMPONENT
2.A.1     Descript_on of Works
The rehabilitation of about 165 km of selected sections on National
and Regional roads, comprising:
(a) overlay/betterment of the Dasuria-Natore (38.30 km), the Natore-
Rajehahi sections of N6 (36.30 km) and the Rangpur-Saidpur section
of N5 (34.50 km);
(b) overlay/betterment/new construction of the Rajshahi-Nawabganj
section of R680 (43.90 km);
(c)  new construction of the Natore by pass (5.90 km) and the Saidpur by
pass (5.30 km); and
(d) reconstruction/construction of 372 meters of reinforced concrete
bridges and 698 meters of reinforced concrete box culverts on above
road sections.
(e)  Preparation of design and supervision of additional about 100 km of
roads to be selected for widening.
2.A.2     Scope of Services
The consultant will undertake the supervision of the contracts and
procurement activities under the direction of the RHD. The
Department will appoint one of its Senior Officers as the
"Engineer". He will also be designated as "Project Civil Works
Director". The Consultant will undertake the following activities
under this component of the consultancy:
(a)  Pre-cualification of the Contractors:  The Consultant will assist
RHD with the pre-qualification exercise, e.g., preparation of
prequalification notices and documents, analyses of the
prequalification proposals and preparation of subsequent
prequalification evaluation reports, which will be forwarded to GOB
for approval;
(b) Bid Invitation: The consultant, assisted by RHD technical staff,
will arrange to issue bid documents (already prepared) to the
approved pre-qualified contractors;
(c) Bid Evaluation: The consultant will develop, with the assistance
of RHD technical staff, a suitable evaluation methodology and
criteria and provide the same to IDA through RHD for IDA's review
and comments. On the basis of the approved evaluation technique,
they will evaluate the bids and submit their recommendations to the
Government for approval; and
(d)  Construction Supervision:  The consultant will set up suitable site
supervision organizations, including local consultant staff and
technical personnel from RHD, to ensure thdt the works under



77 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of 11
contract are completed in accordance with the documents.
Specifically, the consultant will be required to:
(i)  provide such information as is necessary for the contractor to
set out the works correctly and check that this setting out is
correct;
(ii)  review the contractor's vwork proposals, working drawings, etc.
to the extent required by the contract, advise modifications in
consultation with the Project Civil Works Director (PCWD) where
necessary, and recommend the proposal for approval;
(iii)  review the contractor's work programs and where necessary, in
consultation with the Project Civil Works Director, request
revision of these to account for the current status of the
works;
(iv)  regularly inspect civil works and ensure that they conform to
the technical specifications and meet specifLed standards for
quality control and that they are carried out according to
schedule;
(v)  regularly inspect contractor's construction equipment,
installations, housing, medical facilities, etc. to ensure they
are adequate and in accordance with the terms and conditions as
specified in the contracts of civil works;
(vi)  test materials to be used in the works and test completed parts
of the works for compliance with the contract specifications,
carry out deflection analysis of various sections of the road
works to determine what, if any, variations to pavement
structures are required and generally ensure that the final
structures are in accordance with the intent of the contract;
(vii)  maintain permanent record of all measurements of work
quantities to be paid for and results of all tests carried out
to monitor the quality of civil works:
(viii)  prepare Bills of Quantities after taking measurements jointly
with RHD staff and certify all payment to be made to
contractors;
(ix)  inform the Project Civil Works Director (PCWD) and the Project
Managers of problems arising in connection with the
implementation of civil works and make recommendations for
possible solutions;
(x)  evaluate and make recommendations to the PCWD and the Project
Managers on Contractor's claims for additional payment,
disputes, extension of time and other matters based on
consultant's interpretation of contract documents, the relevant
site conditions and contractor's detailed submissions;



- 78 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 11
(xi) revise plans and specifications as necessary, prepare variation
orders and assist the PCWD and the Project Managers in
negotiating with the contractors implementation of such
changes/variations; if a revision involves additional cost
over a certain value to be d-termined, necessary documentation
should be prepared for submission to IDA;
(xii)  set up and maintain a correspondence and document storage and
retrieval system to record all relevant communications between
the parties to the contract, all measurements, quality control
details and variations to the work as they occur;
(xiii)  maintain all as built drawings and documents;
(xiv)  call and keep Minutes of routine site meetings between parties
to the contract and forward minutes to PCWD and Project
Managers for follow-up action;
(xv)  prepaie monthly contract payment estimates and certification
nor payment, including updated cost estimates for construction
supervision;
(xvi)  provide timely assistance to the contractors in all matters
related to interpretation of contract documents, ground survey
controls, quality control testing and other matters relating to
contracts and projects;
(xvii)  prepare and submit monthly and quarterly progress report, in a
form acceptable to IDA and RHD;
(xviii)  carry out final inspection of works and recommend the issue of
completion certificates;
(xix)  check the contractor's final accounts and certify their
payments as per contract; and
(xx) prepare completion reports in a manner satisfactory to the GOB
and IDA including as built drawings after completion of civil
works.
(e)  Unit Cost Analysis:  The Consultant shall undertake annually a
comparison of all unit costs for major civil works items in the
Bills of Quantities (BOQI for the rehabilitation works. There
should be an in-depth analysis of the reasons for unit cost
increases, including but not limited to inflation, changes in scope
of work, and procurement related issues. The consultant shall also
carry out a comparative analysis of road construction unit costs
for similar projects in other countries in the region. The results
of such an analysis would give an indication of the level and
magnitude of mit costs for road construction in Bangladesh
compared with those from contractors in neighboring countries. The
consultant is required to develop a simplified spreadsheet analysis
system, suitable for personal computers (pc) available at RHD or to
be at disposal of the RHD staff at the consultant's office as part



_ 7') -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 5 of 11
of their normal services. This system is to be used for regular
updating, comparison and analysis of unit costs for the major
items. The consultants will forward recommendations to RHD
Headquarters on appropriate unit costs on a periodic basis which
should be used in connection with the preparation of future year's
work programs.
(f) Environmental Monitorinc.: An environmental analysis was carried
out in the course of preparing the project. As most of the works
are on existing right-of-ways, the project works are not expected
to have a major impact on the environment. Nevertheless, certain
safeguards will be necessary to minimize the potentially harmful
impacts and maximize the beneficial ones. A matrix of recommended
actions is attached (see Annex 3.11); this is intended as a
praliminary list only and may be modified during project
pieparation/implementation. The consultant will be responsible for
ensuring works planning, design and execution are carried out
following sound environmental practices and for monitoring RHD's
and the contractor's performance in this regard. Further
responsibilities vis-a-vis the project's environmental impact may
be identified as the work proceeds.
(g)  Land Acquisition and Resettlement:  A limited amount of land
acquisition is associated with the bypasses/realignments under the
Project. An NGO will be involved in assisting RED with resettlement
of project affected persons, and an independent monitoring agency
will be monitoring implementation of the resettlement program. The
consultant's main concern will be ensuring land acquisition and
eviction proceed as planned so as to minimize the impact on the
construction works. Further monitoring responsibilities may be
identified as the work proceeds.
(h) Road Safety Issues: The consultant will review the geometric
design drawings for the rehabilitation works to be carried out and
undertake a road safety "audit" (check) of the engineering details
before the actual construction work commences. In particular the
safety aspects of the geometric design of road junctions,
facilities for pedestrians and non-motorized traffic will be
reviewed by the supervision consultant. Prior to the opening of the
new road sections to general traffic, road safety audits will again
be carried out by the consultants and RHD staff to check that no
safety hazards have been created due to the completed works. Upon
completion of the one year maintenance period, a final road safety
audit will be carried out to ensure that no accident prone areas
have been created as a result of the project. It is also important
that road safety checks continue on a regular basis after the road
has been opened to traffic. The consultant will assist RED to
cevelop road safety audit check lists and a regular system of
safety checks.
(i) Post Evaluation of Proiect: Construction work of phase-1 of RRMP-I
is almost complete; phase-2 work of RRMP-I has just started and is
expected to be complete by the end of June 1995. It is important to
assess the benefits derived by the completed project in planning



- 8( -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 6 of 11
future projects. The supervision consultant will evaluate the first
year project benefits in terms of growth of traffic, reduction of
road user charges, socio-economic advancement, increase or decrease
in accident rates, reduction in maintenance cost etc. and
train/assist RHD staff in preparing such evaluation reports in
future years.
2. B.     PERIODIC MALNTENANCE COMP_ONENT
2.B.l     Description of Works
The Roads and Highways Department has identified approximately
2000 km of roads in western part of the country (Khulna, Barisal
and Rajshahi Zones) for periodic road maintenance program with the
hell. of the Road Master Plan based on the HDM-III (Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model). This plan calls for program of
construction of about 2000 km of asphalt concrete overlays and seal
coats to be constructed over FY '94 - FY '97, i.e. about 500 km of
overlays and seal coats in every year. In order to start the work
in the 1993/94 dry season, preparation of the pre-qualification
documents, detailed specification and bid documents has been
completed for about 500 km of overlay component in the first year
of the 4 years road maintenance component. Hence this volume of
work has been excluded from the scope of services from the
consultancy, i.e. detailed engineering, including works programs
and preparation of pre-qualification and bid documents of about
1500 km of road section has been kept in the scope of services
where as provision had been kept therein for the construction
supervision of 2000 km of road section under the purview of the
road maintenance component. However, the consultant would also be
required to assist RMD with the preparation of the FY 98 periodic
maintenance program before the completion of this consultancy
contract, i.e., for an additional 500 km of periodic maintenance
works.
2.B.2     Scope of Services
The consultant, assisted by technical staff from RMD, will
undertake detailed engineering and construction supervision of the
identified periodic maintenance works. This will include assistance
in preparing RMD's annual maintenance work program for the western
part of the country (e.g., detailed inventory of road conditions,
updated cost estimates and economic justifications, detailed
engineering and bid documents) and assistance in implementing the
program (e.g., contractor prequalification, bid evaluation,
contracting and supervising works). The respective Additional
Chief Engineer of the Project Area will be the "Engineer" for
periodic maintenance (overlay and resealing) work, and PCWD will be
co-ordinator over the maintenance works in the three zones
concerned. The consultant will also need to coordinate with the
institutional development consultants who will assist RHD staff
annually in updating the Road Master Plan and preparation of a
country wide maintenance work program. The supervision consultant



- 81 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 7 of 11
will undertake the following activities under this component of the
consultancy.
(a)  Desiqn Phase
(i)  Investigation:  The consultant will assist RHD personnel in
establishing priorities among road sections in the periodic
maintenance (overlay/seal coat) program based on updated road
condition surveys and HDM-III analysis for western Bangladesh
for each year of the program (beginning with year 2). Based on
apprQpriate economic and engineering criteria, the consultant
will then assist RHD personnel to draw up a maintenance work
program for the coming year. This would be forwarded to the
respective Additional Zonal Chief Engineer (designated as the
"Engineer" of the Project as per contract provision) in timely
manner for obtaining approval of the list of road sections
selected for periodic road maintenance program. The program
would also be agreed with IDA before bids would be invited.
(ii) Desian: Using results obtained from the investigation phase,
the consultant, assisted by RHD technical staff, will design
the annual overlay/seal coat programs for the remaining road
sections, including preparation of detailed engineering,
technical specifications, engineering drawings, bill of
quantities and detailed cost estimate of overlay and other
related works.
(b)  Procurement Documentation:  The consultant will assist RHD with the
preparation of the bidding documents for the annual periodic
maintenance work programs in accordance with Banks Guidelines for
procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits. The consultant will
review and mark up the IDA's Sample Bidding Document with changes
recommended for Bangladesh.
(i) The bidding would be on a slice and package basis whereby all
contracts would bid simultaneously and bidders would be allowed
to bid for individual or several contracts to form a package,
up to their prequalification limit.
(ii) During the Project period, concrete asphalt overlay contracts
will be mostly for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). It
is possible that a limited number of smaller contracts (e.g.
for short lengths of narrow roads) will also be included in the
Project for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). In determining
the packaging, due consideration should be given in minimizing
the cost and maximizing the efficiency with special emphasis on
encouraging the development of the local construction industry.
The bidding documents should follow IDA's Sample Bidding Document
and should include:
(1) Instructions to bidders
(2) General condition of contract
(3) Special condition of contract



- 82 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 8 of 11
(4) Technical specification
(5) Form of bid a--d bid security
(6) Bill of Quantity (BOQ)
(7) Schedule of supplementary information
(8) Form of agreement
(9) Acceptable form of performance security and etc.
(10) All necessary engineering drawings
(iii) It is RHD's intention that these contracting
procedures/documents would form the basis for standardized
procedures/dccuments for future contracting of RHD,s
maintenance works throughout Bangladesh.
(c)  Preaualification and Bidding:  The consultant, assisted by RHD
technical staff, will be required to update the prequalification
information collected in the first year, if necessary by calling
fresh prequalification of contractors for bidding in the subsequent
years of the program. Such updated prequalified list should be
recommended to RHD/IDA for appro-val. The consultant will arrange
issuance of bid documents to the prequalified contractors.
(d) Bid Evaluation: The consultant, assisted by RHD technical staff,
will develop a suitable evaluation methodology and criteria and
provide the same through RHD for IDA's review and comments. They
are expected to participate in the first year's (as well as in
future year's) bid evaluation . Or. the basis of the agreed
evaluation technique, they will evaluate the bids and will submit
them along with their recommendation to IDA, through RHD, for
approval.
(e) Construction Phase: The consultant, assisted by RHD technical
staff, will supervise the maintenance works in accordance with the
requirements, mentioned earlier, for supervision of the
rehabilitation works (Para.2.A.2.(d)).
(f) Unit Cost Analysis: The consultant will annually carry out
analysis of the unit costs for the major civil work items, which
are shown in the Bills of Quantities (BOQI for the periodic
maintenance contracts, as mentioned in Para. 2.A.2(e).
(g)  Environmental Monitorinc:  The consultant, assisted by RHD
technical staff, will be responsible for ensuring works are carried
out following sound environmental practices as indicated in Para.
2.A.2(f).
2.C       TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER COMPONENT
(a) Training of local personnel, both from the local consultant and
RHD, is a component of the consultancy, which is considered equally
important as the supervision of the rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works. In particular, the consultant will undertake
training of RHD's technical staff, including establishment of
systematic procedures for planning, designing, programming and
quality control in the supervision of maintenance works carried out



- 83 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 9 of 11
by contract. The expatriate consultant will also be expected to
provide appropriate training to the local consultant's and RHD's
staff in the supervision of the rehabilitation works.
(b) During the first two years of the project, the consultant will
endeavor to impart sufficient training to RHD staff, so that
starting from the third year RHD staff should be able to take more
responsibility in the overall maintenance activities; and
eventually by the end of the project period, RHD would have
established a modern pavement management system for carrying out
effective maintenance of their roads. The supervision consultant
will also be conducting on the job training for maintenance work
for contractors.
(c) Reducing the dependence upon technical assistance is a key
objective of the training component of the project. It is essential
that targets be established which focus on a schedule for reducing
the need for technical assistance over a realistic time period.
Immediately upon arrival to the project, the consultant will
prepare a complete list of job assignment tasks to be carried out.
This list will then be reviewed with the counterparts and their
supervisors, and time tables prepared for the full transfer of
responsibility from the consultant's staff to the counterparts. As
the counterparts acquire the necessary expertise for each task,
this will be noted on the task list and initialed by the
consultant, the counterparts and their supervisors. The proposed
task list and handover plan will form part of the consultant's
inception report; progress will be regularly monitored and reported
in the consultant's quarterly progress reports.
(d) The consultant will include in his proposal, a detailed plan of his
approach to this aspect of the consultancy, including a breakdown
between formal and site training and a full listing of the
facilities and equipment which he considers will be required to
successfully achieve the objective of developing these skills
within the local staff organization. The final report will contain
an evaluation of the training program, with suggestions for
continuation work and for improvements in future similar programs.
(e) The Institutional Development Program consultant under the project
will monitor the maintenance work from time to time to ascertain
how far the supervision consultant has been able to achieve in
transferring the knowledge and state of art on maintenance to RHD
staff and the contractor. The supervision consultant will monitor
on a regular basis the routine maintenance work carried out by RHD
and report on the achievements and shortfalls.
3.        TIME SCHEDULE
(a) The consultancy services for rehabilitation work are expected to
commence in late '93 (prequalification and bidding), with
construction beginning in October 1994, and will terminate around
June '97; the consultancy services for periodic maintenance program



- 84 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 10 of 11
are expected to commence around August '93 and will terminate
around June '97.
(b)  There will be a Midterm Review of the Project when officials from
GOB, IDA and a possible bilateral donor agency will assess the
progress of the works and the performances of the contractors and
the appointed supervision consultants.
4.        STAFFING
It is estimated that about 300 mm of expatriate and 900 mm of local
personnel would be required for the accomplishment of the tasks as described
in the Terms of Reference for both rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
components.  The consultant will propose the schedule of personnel required
for the different disciplines as per TORs for each of the components
separately.  It is also specified in Annex I that the provision shall be made
in the proposed manning schedule to utilize the input of at least three
expatriates and a deputy team leader (probably recruited from an associated
local consulting engineering firm) full time in every year throughout the
implementation period.
5.        SUBMISSION OF REPORTS/DOCUMENTS
(a) Inception Report (three copies to IDA and seven copies to RHD)
within one month of mobilization; report to include detailed plan
for staff training and technology transfer.
(b) Yearly Road Maintenance Program (seven copies to RHD and three
copies to IDA) recommending the overlay and reseal sections to be
included in the periodic maintenance program. The reports to be
submitted in timely manner.
(c)  Draft tender documents (five copies to RHD and two copies to IDA)
to be submitted in timely manner. Final tender documents (five
copies to RHD and two copies to IDA) incorporating the comments of
RHD and IDA to be submitted within two weeks after getting the
comments.
(d) Submission of final cost estimates (five copies to RHD and two
copies to IDA) to be submitted in a timely manner.
(e) Prequalification documents and prequalification evaluation reports
to be submitted in a timely manner (five copies to RED and two
copies to IDA).
(f) Tender evaluation reports to be submitted within ten days after the
closing date for the receipt tenders (three copies to RHD and two
copies to IDA).
(g) Monthly progress report (20 copies to RHD and 3 copies to IDA).
(h) Quarterly progress report (20 copies to RHD and 3 copies to IDA).



- 85 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 11 of 11
(i) Completion report (25 copies to RHD and 3 copies to IDA) on
completing of the project.
(j) In addition to reporting on standard project implementation
aspects, the quarterly and completion reports will also cover, as
appropriate, environmental and resettlement monitoring, training
and technology transfer, unit cost analyses, safety audits, etc. as
indicated in Section 2 above.
6.        PERSONNEL, FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER ASSISTANCE TO BE
PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
(a) RHD will secure requisite numbers of counterpart personnel, i.e.
Additional Project Directors (SE's), Project Managers (EE's), Sub-
Divisional Engineers (SDE's) under the administrative control of
the Project Director. These supporting personnel would assist the
consultant's personnel with the necessary local support in the
implementation of the project. In addition, they would be
responsible for the routine contact between RHD and the consultant
and would also be responsible to RHD for ensuring that the services
provided by the consultant are in accordance with consultancy
contract and conform with the requirements and policies of RHD.
(b) The Government will provide the consultants with the necessary
entry and exit visas and import privileges for their expatriates
personnel.
(c) GOB will provide available reports of surveying, material testing,
site investigations, data and maps for carrying out the assignment.
(d) Each rehabilitation/construction contract includes the provision
and maintenance, by the contractor, of the necessary -ehicles,
laboratory and survey equipment, computers and furnished office
space. The Department will provide these at no cost to the
consultant for the duration of these services. However, the
consultant shall include in his proposal a list of facilities and
equipment he considers necessary to adequately supervise the works
and provide detailed costs of these. In the event that RHD is
unable to provide the items listed above, or accepts that
additional or different equipment is required, then the consultant
shall provide these on a reimbursable basis. At the conclusion of
the consultancy, these items will be handed over to RHD.
(e) For the supervision of the periodic road maintenance work, the
consultant will have to submit a proposal for requirements
regarding the necessary vehicles, equipment, office accommodation,
etc. The costs of these shall be detailed in the financial
proposal. In the event that RHD is unable to provide these items,
then the consultant shall provide them on a reimbursable basis.
Equipment so provided will be handed over to RHD at the conclusion
of the consultancy services.



- 86 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 11
OVERVIEW OF INSTI TUIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives of the Program
1.        The overall objective of the Project is to reduce the total cost of
road transport on the most travelled roads in Bangladesh by improving the RHD
network through more effective planning, design and construction of road
investments and the more effective programming and implementation of road
maintenance. These objectives are to be achieved through civil works, through
the associated technical assistance needed to deliver the works, and through
institutional development.
2.        There are two essential institutional objectives. These are to
strengthen institutional capability and to strive for institutional self
sufficiency. Although self sufficiency is the highcr priority, the two are
inter-linked and improvements in capability must precede the achievement of
the prime objective.
3.        It is important that the supplier of technical assistance
understands this point. It may well be that for some operations the latest
state-of-art techniques may not be appropriate and less sophisticated
solutions may be better, ones which the Ministry staff fully understand and
can successfully use to produce reliable results.
B. Description of the Program
The Basic Elements
4.        The Institutional Development component of the Project will reach
out directly to three government agencies (RHD, RRTD and BRTA), and indirectly
to the Bangladesh road construction industry. This will be achieved through
four intermediaries comprising a twinning supplier, the Bangladesh Road
Research Laboratory (BRRL), the Bangladesh University of Engineering and
Technology ( BUET), and the Institution of Engineers of Bangladesh (IEB). The
program will focus on improvements in the planning, management and
implementation of the civil works and also improvements in road safety. It
will be delivered over a period of from 8 to 10 years with the initial 4-year
Phase 1 being included in the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Phase II.
5.        Within RHD, the program is designed to penetrate most sections of
the Planning and Development Wing in Dhaka with improvements in management,
planning and information systems. There is an emphasis on the planning
processes, following the initiatives that have occurred as a result of the
Roads Master Plan Study in 1990, in particular, the setting up of the HDM
Cell. For the continuation of these developments under the RRMP-II, a new
set-up called the HDM Circle is to be created in the Planning and Development
Wing. It will interact with the Planning and Programming Circle for the
development budget, with the Monitoring and Evaluation Circle for the
maintenance budget, and with the Economics Circle for assistance with general
economic aspects and for the coordination of the parts of the RHD's overall
program, suah as those concerned with bridges and ferries, that cannot be
readily processed through the HDM-3.



ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 11
6.        Improvements in the collection and handling of information is most
urgently needed in the Monitoring and Evaluation Circle, but this must be
achieved through a coordinated effort throughout all departments, and also in
the MOC, because certain parts of the database are needed by all groups (i.e.
the fixed inventory of roads and the associated maps). Wherever data is
exchanged and processed, a common system and frame of reference should be
used.
7.        For impro-ving the quality of the physical works, the program is
designed to reach the contractors as well as the RHD supervisory staff.
First, through the general promotion of better contract documents where the
quality of the finished product is a primary objective, and then through the
training at BRRL of practitioners from both sides of the industry.
8.        At BRTA there are many requirements for institutional development
arising because of the short time (3 years) that the authority has been in
operation. BRTA is receiving some technical assistance from the UNDP/ADB
Institutional Support Program, and is likely to receive further assistance
under the ADB Road Maintenance and Improvement Project starting later in 1993.
But no provision has been made to specifically address the problem of
improving road safety and so this component has now been identified as a part
of the RRMP-II.
9.        For the delivery of the desired improvements to these three
agencies, a twinning approach is proposed. The long-term objective is to
sustain the institutional improvements resulting from this project and, to
this end, local organizations outside the Ministry have also been sought to
supplement the efforts that will be focused on BRRL as a training center to
the Ministry. Agreement in principle has been made with BUET for assistance
with computer courses and participation in the HDM-3 work, and with the IEB
for computer and management training courses.
10.       The supplier twin will be the main facilitator for the program and
will coordinate all of the institutional development activities for the
Ministry, including the arrangements with BUET and IEB in Bangladesh. The
twin will be a joint venture with partners from a government organization in a
developed country, a consultant, overseas universities and technical training
establishments, and representatives from developing country organizations; and
the JV will provide individual experts in particular fields as needed. Whilst
there will be a defined baseload of institutional improvement measures to be
delivered to the Ministry, the keynote of the twinning approach is the
flexibility of the supplier to respond to changing needs.
11.       one of the first tasks called for in the Terms of Reference is a
Skills Gap Study which will formally and quantitatively confirm the skills
needed to manage the business of maintaining the country's roads, and the
types and amounts of training needed to fill the gaps.
Highway Desiqn and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-3)
12.       In 1989-90 the Road Master Plan Study for the main trafficked
routes in Bangladesh was carried out by the consultant team of
Transroute/Stup/BCL with the objective of producing a master plan for
implementing the most rational works program for the immediate period 1992-96,



- 88 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 11
and with an indicative program for the following 6-year period. The network
under consideration comprised around 13,000 km of the primary, secondary and
tertiary roads within the responsibility of RHD. The planning tool used for
the RMP was HDM-3, which has been developed and promoted by the World Bank for
general use in the evaluation and optimization of any road construction and
maintenance projects, but is of particular relevance to the evaluation of IBRD
funded projects because of the verifiable standards that have been built into
the model.
13.       Three engineers and one economist from RHD received extensive
training in the use of the model with emphasis placed on the computing aspects
of its use. Subsequently the Senior Economist has received a shorter overview
course on HDM-3. From this group will be drawn the nucleus for the new HDM
Circle, but it will be necessary to introduce more staff to HDM-3 procedures
and to increase present HDM-3 knowledge to encompass all che requirements for
running the system including field data collection and the calibration of
certain key data to achieve a level of accuracy commensurate with demands and
the sensitivity of the evaluations.
14.       The set-up indicated for the HDM Circle shows a link with the
Monitoring and Evaluation Units in the Zones. This will be satisfactory for
the collation of construction cost and materials data, but for road roughness
data it is recommended that this function is carried out by the HDM Circle
with help from BRRL.
15.       There are two aspects of HDM-3 that should be the subject of
further experimental trials. These are (a) testing the road deterioration
sub-model that has been assumed for Bangladesh and (b) developing the new
modified version, called HDM-Q, which takes account of factors preventing free
flow of traffic. This problem is particularly severe in Bangladesh because of
the high level of non-motorized traffic combined with the narrowness of many
of the roads. It is proposed that RHD, through the HDM Circle and BRRL, and
with the help of BUET, will monitor the deterioration over time of a sample of
RED roads of each class by taking accurate and regular measurements of
roughness, surface condition and pavement strength, together with traffic
levels, axle loading and other factors which affect road behavior. Similarly
it is proposed that a research program be mounted during RRMP-II to calibrate
the HDM-Q model and to test its general applicability for dealing with traffic
constraint.
16.       It is equally important to improve the skills of the staff
responsible for interpreting the results obtained from HDM-3 so that the civil
works programs may be prepared ready for appraisal by RHD. These interpretive
skills will be developed by working alongside the HDM4-3 expert from the
supplier twin during the course of this Project. Apart from this technical
assistance, the project will also provide computers and training equipment for
the HDM Circle and similar asaistance to BUET for its role as research partner
and trainer.
Information Systems in the Ministry
17.       The general lack of information in RHD and the RRTD is now a major
constraint on the everyday work of planning and implementing road maintenance.
Apart from returns on expenditure, the headquarters office of the Additional



- 80-
ANNEX 3.3
Page 4 of 11
Chief Engineer, Planning and Development often has to refer back to the zonal
offices to find out further details, in particular, the exact location and
extent of physical works. This is unsatisfactory and steps will be taken at
the outset of RRMP-II to improve the collection, flow, storage and retrieval
of information. At its simplest this should include a more organized filing
system and the representation on simple schematic plans of the work done on
each road in each year. Depending on the suitability of the application, this
could make use of some form of geographic information system (GIS).
18.       Resulting from the 1990 RMP, there is a database (the BROF
database) which could be either extended or adapted to suit the requirements
of both RHD and RRTD. The Project is supporting both these agencies and in
the information technology field it is proposed that the same specialist
addresses the requirements of both offices utilizing the same basic software.
19.       In RHD it has already been established that a management
information cell should be located in the Economics Circle but at the time of
appraisal no staff or resources had been allocated. Whilst this cell may be
responsible for the core database, modules will need to be kept by other
departments. These include accident records kept at BRTA and roughness and
strength data kept by the EDM Circle, both of which must interface with the
main database. The policy o.. data management and the responsibility for
maintaining the databases will need to be established by the supplier through
discussion with the Ministry at the earliest stages if this Project is to make
the necessary impact on information systems.
20.       To facilitate these improvements in information storage and
retrieval in the RRTD, there is a proposal for a new set-up for the duration
of the Project comprising a Planning Cell under the general direction of the
Joint Secretary (Development) to be located in the MoC Secretariat building.
21.       The benefit of good information is so far reaching that many
sections will be affected by these improvements. To take advantage of this it
is necessary for computers and ancillary equipment to be widely available and
therefore provision has been made for this in the Project.
Encrineerinc Materials and Ouality Control
22.       Without good control of the quality of engineering works, civil
works designed to last for, say, 10 years without serious attention,
deteriorate below acceptable standards in a fraction of the time. Guarantees
about the durability and life of a road are just as much part of the design as
the geometric alignment and structural strength calculations. This has been a
serious problem in Bangladesh because of the extensive use of the Conditions
of Contract Form 2911 which concentrates on a fixed cost for the works and
thereby reduces the "works contract" to essentially a labor-only contract with
no clear responsibility for guaranteeing quality and durability.
23.       Under bilateral and multilaterally funded projects, the FIDIC type
of contract is used with the contractor free to enter his own rates in the
Bill of Quantities that are sufficient for him to be able to comply with the
requirements of the Specification of the Works. Whilst local contractors are
keen to move away from the Form 2911 type of contrac._s, they are not yet
sufficiently experienced in producing work of a quality that matches the



_ 90
ANNEX 3.3
Page 5 of 11
specification. There are two main reasons for this, (a) a general lack of
understanding of the ways to produce good quality work and the need to do so,
and (b) a lack of mechanical equipment to achieve the specified results
(especially compaction equipment).
24.       To encourage good work there has to be an education process
involving both the RHD supervisors and the local contractors. In its simplest
terms this process will cover the technical aspects of good working practices,
the laboratory tests needed to prove quality, and methods of measuring the
works for payment. In the process, the contractor will also need instruction
on how best to organize-and manage his resources to achieve the standards, and
ultimately, to know how to interpret correctly the clients intentions when
tendering for new contracts. Much can be learnt from the job site through
sensitive supervision, especially where the contractor is trying his best to
work to the specification but is lacking in experience and equipment.
Alternatively, much can also be learnt through the experience of being
subcontracted to an international contractor for part of a bigger job.
25.       BRRL is being nominated under the Project for designing and running
the necessary training courses at the offices in Mirpur where there are
accommodation facilities for up to 20 trainees on the campus. Using the
facilities at the laboratory, the full range of tests can be demonstrated and
taught in relation to the specifications that the supervisory staff will be
using on site, and a better appreciation will be gained of the quality control
tests available through the present 10 field laboratories (shortly to be
increased to 14). Alternative courses are also necessary for contractors'
staff. A materials engineer from the supplier twin will be attached to the
laboratory for the first two years of the Project to raise the standard of
quality control sampling and testing, to assist with the design of the courses
and demonstrations, and to train the BRRL staff who will continue to deliver
the courses in future years. This materials specialist will also help to set
up specific and properly controlled research trials which will probably
include investigating the potential use of lime-stabilization.
26.       The Project will support BRRL by (a) bringing its complement of
testing equipment up to full strength, (b) upgrading the facilities at BRRL
Headquarters for running training courses, including the addition of a second
training room and the provision of air-conditioning to improve the conditions
in the monsoon season, when most training courses will be given, (c) providing
computers and ancillary equipment, (d) providing equipment for the training
rooms, including a high quality robust photocopier for the reproduction of in-
house training materials and other specific training equipment, and (e)
providing a mini bus for the transportation of trainees to site demonstrations
and courses away from the main campus.
27.       In addition, advantage will be taken of the courses on Quality
Control for Concrete run by the IEB (next door to RHD Headq"arters). IEB has
indicated that it can design and deliver other trainirng courses not only to
the specific requirements of RHD, but also to the general requirements of the
construction industry of Bangladesh. Under the Project, support will be given
to the IEB in the form of improved facilities at its Ramna Headquarters
including (a) computing equipment for its own administration and for general
training for industry participants, (b) the provision of a regular supply of
technical proceedings and journals from the UK Institution of Civil Engineers



- 91 -
aMW_X 3.3
Page 6 of 11
and (c) sponsoring of possible visits by members of the Joint Board of
Moderators of ICE to ensure that entry requirements and teaching scandards of
some of the Bangladesh Universities are of sufficiently high standards to
accredit their civil engineering degrees for professional recognition in UK
and, by extension, in many other developed countries.
Maintenance Practices
28.       To help translate the improved planning procedures into effective
works programs, the Project will provide medium-term institutional support on
the implementation side for both roads and bridges. This will be designed to
assist not only the supervisory staff o4 RHD but also smaller contractors.
This will be done througn the provision of construction management courses
designed to help the contractor in understanding the techniques and methods of
working with the FIDIC type of contracts in which he can choose his price
rates according to his own work methods and resources, and where quality
becomes a much more important objective in making a profit.
29.       On roadworks, a major effort is to be made in guaranteeing
compaction, a problem that is strongly linked to the inability of the small
contractor to hire equipment, which, in turn, is linked to the performance of
the whole of the construction industry. Even with limited resources, it is
possible to achieve better compaction by making use of appropriate locally
made equipment, but this needs the concerted encouragement of the Road
Maintenance Engineer from the twinning supplier. He will also ensure that the
zonal engineers follow a systematic method of recording as-built drawings.
During the course of the next 10 years, this may be represented very
efficiently on a GIS, but an immediate start will be required using large-
scale plans or maps.
30.       The systematic recording of condition data applies equally to
bridges as to it does to roads and under the Project there is provision for
one Bridge Engineer to consolidate the maintenance procedures set up under an
ODA project due to finish in 1993.
31.       For maintenance, there needs to be a greater emphasis on the
training of artisans and a technician cadre. This appears to be virtually
non-existent at this time. The Skills-gap study will confirm this need, and
also ,no doubt, the value of on-the-job training. This will have to be
structured and encouraged for it to be effective, and the Road and Bridge
Engineers, with their local consultant and counterpart colleagues, have an
important role to play in this activity.
Management Training
32.       During appraisal it was pointed out that the managers of the road
maintenance program had little or no training in the techniques of project or
personnel management and so three provisions are being built into the Project
to address this omission. These are, (a) the opportunity for top managers in
RED and MoC to attend short c.ourses (4-6 weeks) in the home country of the
supplier coupled with brief work placements in the supplier organizations to
see how different management practices operate, (b) 1-2 week visits to
countries in the region, likely to be coupled with attendance at conferences
such as the regular conference of the Road Engireering Association of Asia and



ANNEX 3.3
Page 7 of 11
Australasia (REAAA' with participation and presentation of papers on
Bangladesh experience (which are unusual and professionally interesting to
engineers from other counties) and visits as guests of the host Ministry of
Public Works to compare practices, an.d (c} sponsorship of the IEB for the
running of management courses at different levels for engineers and managers
in the RED, the MoC, and members of the construction industry.
Road Safety Study
33.       The Project objective, to reduce the overall transport costs on the
main roads of Bangladesh, encourages an increase in traffic volumes and an
increase in the speed of individual vehicles. The common belief is that this
causes more road accidents; certainly there seems to be an increasing number
of horrific head-on collisions reported in the newspapers, but there is no
conclusive data supportizig this hypothesis. The causes of accidents are
usually a combination of factors involving the road geometry, pavement surface
conditicn, vehicle fitness, driver capability, the time of day, and the
weather. Information on the road accident situation in Bangladesh is urgently
needed so that improvements can be properly targeted.  No other agency appears
to be addressing this problem and therefore the Project includes a road safety
component based at the BRTA. This will begin with a Road Safety Study to
provide the basic information on which an action plan can be based.
34.       The Road Safety Study will be arranged early in the Project and it
is expected that this will recommend the use of a powerful yet simple
procedure now available with computer software, which has been tried and
tested in more than ten developing cou-.tries, for objectively recording and
analyzing accident data to produce a strategy for identifying and implementing
the most cost effective accident reduction measures. These are expected to
include modifications to existing standards and specifications for roads and
should be included in the works program and the budget.
Improvement in the Construction Industry
35.       Following the ODA sponsored study of the construction industry in
1989, an Action Plan has been pursued by GOB. This is a 12-point plan the
main thrusts of which are directed at reforms in the procurement of civil
engineering works, the recognition of construction as an industry, the
establishment of various boards and associations, provision for hiring
equipment, unified registration of contractors, attention to training and
information exchanges within the industry, and the role of women.
36.       During the course of the Project, this action plan should move
forward and begin to achieve some of its objectives. Since these are
institutionai matters, it is appropriate that a further review of progress be
made during this Project, and provision has been made for a short-term visit
by a construction industry specialist to work with the local consultant staff
to monitor progress and to recommend any further revisions that could usefully
be made as the action plan develops.
37.       There are differing views, for example, on the way forward for
equipment hire in the industry. In Bangladesh there is a considerable stock
of equipment in the hands of Government departments and authorities. If this
were all in working order and suitably distributed, it would go a long way to



- q3 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 8 of 11
resolving the equipment shortages in the country. Whether this is possible,
whether there should be a single Government-owned plant hire organization, or
whether the country is ready for a true market in plant hire, are all points
that ate being debated at the present time. A useful institutional commentary
would be to arrange a study of the equipment aspects to quantify the likely
demand from the industry, taking into account the moves for better quality
control on contracts by the RHD, and to identify the best way forward towards
a situation where small contractors can have access to newer and well
maintained equipment.
The Economics of Ferries and Bridges
38.       The view has been expressed that RHD is under pressure to reduce
the 64 ferry crossings by the construction of bridges. In Bangladesh, ferries
are an important part of the road network. Bridges are usually very expensive
because the foundation conditions are generally poor. Therefore, before
making a popular recommendation to replace a ferry by a bridge, further
studies should be carried cut by the Economics Wing to establish the proper
thresholds of traffic and bridge span that are the main factors affecting the
economic justification.
39.       The study would need to take into account (a) the efficienc-r of the
RED's ferry operations, (b) the choice of boats, and (c) traffic generated as
a result of a new bridge. The Study should be overseen by the Transport
Economist with inputs from the Bridge Engineer. History shows that most of
the bridges erected under the ODA Priority A and B Bridge Programs were
replacements of sub-standard or failed bridges. This raises the further
question about the great value of proper bridge maintenance and of building to
higher durability standards in the first place. Bridges and fer- :es are all
part of the same road network and so they are competing for the same
maintenance funds.  Thus a proper balance should be achieved in the ferry
study by evaluating each proposal in the same economic terms as any other road
proposal.
Environmental and Resettlement Issues
40.       These issues are increasingly important to the RHD and therefore
the Project will include advice and training in environmental assessment and
environmental protection. In addition, help will be provided for the RHD to
develop a systematic approach to resettlement problems. These topics will be
dealt with within a new cell of the RHD specifically set up for this purpose.
Activities Schedule
41.       A list of the main activities in the Institutional Development
Program is shown in Figure 2 of the Terms of Reference (Annex 3.4), with
timings indicated during the currency of the present Project but which should
be seen as the initial period of an 8-10 year development process.
42.       The activities are grouped by discipline although owing to the
overlapping nature of the inputs by the various specialists, many of the
activities are shared. For details of individual responsibilities and fields
of operation of the twinning JV Specialists, reference should be made to the
Terms of Reference.



_ Q4 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 9 of 11
C. Overcominct the Constraints on Institutional Development
43.       One of the main constraints to the success of institutional
development initiatives are the low salary levels in the Bangladesh Civil
Service and the rotation of staff, whose average tenure in any one position is
three years. A civil engineering graduate entering a contracting or
consulting firm will, on average, start at slightly less take-home pay than
his university classmate who enters RHD as an Assistant Engineer drawing Tk
2,800 pm basic salary and, in addition, with a housing allowance of 40-45*
basic salary depending on location, Tk 150 pm medical allowance, an additional
2 months basic salary paid at the Id, and the possibility of some shared
transport. He will also have to contribute to a compulsory savings scheme
with preferential interest rates to Government officers which, in due course,
may be used as collateral for a loan.
44.       After 10 years the picture is quite different, with the private
sector engineer taking home between 2 and 4 times the pay of his counterpart
in RHD and, if he shows that he is talented and works hard, he will be
progressing through the firm and taking responsibility for interesting work.
There is also every possibility that he will be sent on courses which will
also help to keep him interested in staying with the firm. In RHD a graduate
will have been promoted after about 7 years to Sub-divisional Engineer at a
basic salary of around Tk 4,100 and could wait another 5 years before
promotion to Executive Engineer wh1ere the earnings from salary will be about
Tk 4,800 pm.
45.       The Government salary scales cannot be changes for this Project and
so ways have to be found to work within the system and yet generate an
interest in making things run better. Six initiatives will be used in the
Project to try to improve the situation and level of job satisfaction at RHD.
(a) Introduction of new and interesting skills
(b) Better working environment
(c) Working contacts with universities and the private sector firms
(d) Per diem allowances when staff attend training courses in
Bangladesh
(e) The opportunity for overseas training
(f) A structured approach to career development
46.       There is little evidence of the widespread use of computers in RHD
or RRTD and yet there is a demand from staff to have access to computers to
make use of the new technologies. The Project will provide personal computers
for all the sections targeted for institutional improvements along with the
usual software for word processing, spreadsheets and databases. Tuition will
also be given in the basic techniques by local consultants.
47.       Partly to do with the conditions needed to protect the investment
in computers, but also because a comfortable working environment promotes a
good work ethic, offices will be improved in the BRRL, the RED Headquarters
ana the MoC Secretariat.
48.       The leading engineering university in Bangladesh is BUET and it has
been agreed that three initiatives may be followed with benefit to all



- 95 -
A&NEX 3. 
Page 10 of 11
parties, (a) BUET will introduce HDM-3 to the final year syllabus with the
possible involvement of the staff of the HDM Circle in the teaching and
practical sessions, (b) BUET will be involved in the calibration of the basic
HDM-3 model for Bangladesh conditions and in the testing of the new HDM-Q for
taking account of restrictions on the free flow of traffic, especially the
interference by rickshaws on motorized traffic, and (c) BUET will assist with
the running of computer training courses for RHD and MoC staff.
49.       To encourage attendance at training courses in RHD, BUET, IEB and
at other locations in Bangladesh, the Government shouild make per diem payments
to cover additional expenses. This could also be used as a means of ensuring
attendance for the full duration of the courses.
50.       The opportunity for overseas training is seen as a major incentive
and so provision is being made under the Project for a small number of 12-
month MSc courses, a few medium term courses in special topics such a
management, road maintenance and road safety, and short visits to regional
centers for staff to participate in conferences, workshops, seminars and the
like. In addition, staff from the regional twinning authority will visit
Bangladesh to work within the Bangladesh institutions to exchange skills and
experiences in the areas covered by the components of this Project.
51.       Staff assessments are to be encouraged under the project to
determine the career aspirations of the staff of the RHD and MoC and to
identify ways of helping to achieve them. The IEB offers advice in the area
of personal advancement, and can help set up a screening procedure to select
candidates for the overseas courses. The Project will also be supporting the
IEB in the design and running of courses both for RHD staff and for industry
members from the private sector.
D. Progress Monitoring and Performance Indicators
52.       Unlike civil engineering works, which can be readily monitored for
progress by physical and financial measurements, Institutional Development is
difficult to monitor. The questions to be asked should be concerned primarily
with the transfer of technology that is being achieved where local staff are
taking over, in stages, the responsibility for the management of programs.
Such programs usually occur in cycles. On the first cycle, the specialist will
be primarily concerned with the development of new procedures and methods and
with the production of useable results. In this cycle he will need to use his
counterparts mainly as staff resources, but on the next cycle he will have set
up the procedures (and provided training and draft manuals) so that the
counterparts should be able to do the job under his close guidance and
supervision. At this stage, the specialist will refine and finalize the
manuals and training materials. In the final stage, the counterparts take
over the job in question whilst the specialist is still available to give
advice and to monitor the progress as the responsibility is finally handed
over.
53.       For many of the activities shown in the Activity Chart, milestone
achievement dates may be chosen to correspond with the above stages of hand-
over. This can only be done meaningfully when the start date of the Project
and the institutional development services are known with certainty because
programs and budgets have to adhere to fixed calendar dates. For other tasks,



Page 11 of 11
such as reviewing data requirements or designing training courses, the
milestones should be staggered so that where inputs are needed from various of
the team members, there will be no conflicts of deadlines.
S4.       At the time of negotiating the contract for the institutional
development services, the milestone details should be agreed and built into
the contract.



07 -
ANNEX 3.,4
Page 1 of 13
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TWINMING/COWSULTANCY TEAPI FOR INSTITU-TIOMqL DEV7ELOPM33'NT PROGRAM
1.   -INTRODUCTION
1.1   General Backcround                 ,
--It has- been recogn'ized for-some- time -that the-institutional -capability-of the ---
roads administration in Bangladesh has not kept pace with the growth in road
_us,age+, and in_tlhe preparations for the Second Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project iRRMP-II) provision has been made for institutional
strengthening commensurate with the physical targets to rehabilitate 165 km of
paved roads by contract and to carry out periodic maintenance on around 20O0
km of roads over a 4-year period in the western half of the country. Under an
Asian Development Bank sponsored program a similar project is in preparation
for roads in the eastern half of the country.
The institutional development component of the RRMP-I1 is designed to build on
the work of earlier programs and focuses on the training of local counterparts
to the foreign specialists who will be used in the short to medium term to
raise the levels of capability and efficiency in implementing the Project.
Constraints on the efficiency of the Roads and Highway Department (RHD) in
carrying out its responsibilities for the road network of Bangladesh are (a)
the generally low levels of staff salaries and the high numbers of staff, (b)
the average period of only three years for staff in any one position and (cl)
the compartmentalization of activities concerned with road maintenance. The
raising of salaries and reductions in staff cannot be remedied by or for the
RRMP-TI alone, and so institutional improvements have to be cast within a
framework where other aspects of career development and a broader approach to
technical training is needed.
Key to the sustainability of institutional improvement is the establishment of
a training culture and cadre within RHD, and this is the main feature of these
TORs. At the beginning activities are done alongside temporary specialists.
This progresses to a stage where the same activities are done by the staff
under supervision, and finally the stage is reached where the staff are able
to initiate the work and carry out the activities themselves.
1.2   OiDtions for Institutional DeveloDment
The options available for raising the efficiency of the Ministry in
maintaining and rehabilitating the road network include (a) the provision of
conventional technical assistance to existing staff, (b) the development of
the institution through a "twinning" arrangement, (c) the taking over of
certain line management functions by foreign experts on a longer term basis
and (d) the increased participation of the private sector in managing the
Ministry's road business. Although increased privatization is a declared
goal, there is still a long way to go at the institutional level before this
represents a real option for higher management. Because sustainability is a
major priority of the Government, the choice of assistance is between a series
of conventional consultancy contracts with tight terms of reference and



ARNNEX 3.4
Page 2 of 13
correspondingly tight time schedules for each input, or an all-embracing
twinning arrangement where the client looks to a single organization to
satisfy all its institutional development needs within a defined framework.
In the preparation of the RRMP-II it was agreed that the twinning option
provides a good choice for the Ministry to achieve its institutional -
development objectives. The British Government through its Overseas
Development Administration (OTQA) is appraising this option and may provide the
funding for the institutional improvements under RRMP-II. It is recognized
that -the program-under --R_IP- I -can only achieve-part of--the overall ------
institutional objectives and that the activities provided by this particular
__support should be treated as the first part of a 8 to 10 year program. No
indication or assurances are given about donors- in the futti.re, ,ut the'y will-
certainly take account of the measured achievements of this first proaram, and
these TOR are so arranged to provide a basis for these measurements.
These TOR describe the arrangements for a cwinning program between client and
supplier, the services required of the supplier and the obligations by the
client. They are geared to the total needs of the roads program of the
Ministry of Communications as funded from all sources, and whilst being the
main vehicle for institutional develonment, this RRMP-II component is also to
be complementary to the institutional aspects of other projects. Should the
scope of any of the other projects now in preparation be modified, then there
is the flexibility in the twinning arrangement to ensure that any omissiolns or
shortfalls in essential institutional dcvelopment are addressed.
It has been agreed and accepted that specific training programs in the
Ministry of Communications will be based in the Bangladesh Road Research
Laboratory (BRRL), and the campus will provide one of the base offices for the
Team Leader of the twinning organization.
2.    OBJECTIZVS AND SCOPE
2.1   Overall Prolect Obiectives
The overall objective of the Project is to reduce the total cost of road
transport on the most travelled roads in Banigladesh by improving the RHD
network through more effective planning, design and construction of road
investments and the more effective programming and implemer.tation of road
maintenance. There are three main institutions concerned with the roads
sector :
Road and Road Transport Division (RRTD) in the Ministry, dealing with
policy and forward planning.
Roads and Highways Department (RHD) doing detailed planning, des4gn,
implementation and maintenance of the roads infrastructure.
Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) recently formed to better
regulate road users.
Other projects, principally the ADB Road Overlay and Improvement Project, are
addressing similar objectives, but it has been agreed that the RRMP-II will



ANNEX 3.4
Page 3 of 13
deal with the institutional development issuea in RHD, RRTD and the road
safety responsibilities of the BRTA.
2.2   Institutional Obiectives
There are two essential inssitutional objectives.  These are to strengthen
institutional capability and to achieve institutional self-sufficiency.
Although--self-sufficiency is the higher priority, the two are inter-linked and
improvements in capability must precede the achievement of the prime
objective.-
--To- ensurethat-heseob-ectivs-are being-proper.ly -addressedr.e.an-Insttitutiona1 =
Review Committee will be set up by the Ministry to monitor this and the
general progress of the project. The Chairman will be the Joint Secretary
(Development) at the MOC who will appoint a small committee that will include
the Team Leader from the twinning organization, representatives from the
Office of the Chief Engineer, plus the Additional Chief Engineer, Planning and
Development in the RHD, and representatives from ODA and IDA. A part of the
review process will be to monitor the separate obligations of both the
supplier and the client and to agree how any associated problems may be dealt
with to ensure that the institutional development work under RRMP-II moves
towards the two main objectives.
S.   GEN8RAL RBQUIREMNNTS OF THE TWINNING ARRANGAEMNT
3.1   The Relationship of the Client and the Suprlier
The essential requirement of a successful twinning arrangement is to create an
environment in which the transfer of technology can be optimized. The
Supplier of knowledge and technical expertise must be able to respond to the
changing needs and abilities of the receiver and the receiver must be prepared
to improve performance by the introduction of changes. This is a technical
assistance relationship in which the Supplier is contracted by the receiving
Client to provide the assistance he needs to run hsa business more
efficiently, and eventually on his own. These TOR contain goals that are to
be measured in terms of sustainability and efficiency, with the greatest
empharis on the former.
Ideally the twin should be able to offer experience and expertise across the
whole range of road maintenance activities, embracing state-of-art methods of
planning and implementation, and the ability to carry out research,
development and trairing in this field. It is unlikely that all these
requirements can be resourced from a single authority or consultant, and so
the Supplier is expected to be a joint venture (JV) comprising three or four
members:
1.   Government agency
2.    Foreign consulting firm
3.    Local consulting firm
4.    Developing country representatives
It will be the responsibility of the JV to organize its activities to suit the
requirements of the Client. This necessary flexibility is to be reflected in



- 100 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 4 of 13
the contract agreement between the JV and the Client, to the extent that the
developing country representatives will be confirmed at a later stage.
In entering into a twinning agreement with the Supplier, the Client will take
on certain obligations to present sufficient and suitable staff for training
and to provide the physical environment and facilities for the supplier to
carry out his services according to the TOR. The timing associated with the
- Client meeting these obligatiQna introduces a further elament to the
flexibility that the JV must build into its program.
3.2   Obligations of the Client
With this twinning arrangement the obligat ons of the Client are to provide:
-     counterpart staff
-     suitable office space to house the experts and counterparts
-     sufficient tools to do the job
-     sufficient funds to run the business.
From the outset it is a requirement of these TOR that each specialist of the
JV will work alongside his counterpart(s), preferably in the same office. In
certain cases the counterpart will also retain his own office. Allowance may
be made in the JV contract for the refurbishment of certain offices and the
provision of furniture and office equipment in addition to the technical and
training equipment that will be provided.
For the running costs of the various GOB offices where institutional
development is targeted in the Project, and where the twinning agency will
interface with the client, it will be the responsibility of the client to make
adequate provision in its budgets to ensure that local funds are in place.
These should cover transport, out-of-station allowances for its sta.ff, and the
provision of consumables.
Details of specific requirements are included in Appendix A to these TORs
against each of the individual specialists where the provision of particular
facilities and equipment is a pre-requisite for the mobilization of each of
the supplier's experts. These conditions are beirng set to maximize the
benefits available from the twinning.
3.3   Outputs and Goals
In order to have some measure of the performance of the twinning arrangement,
it is important to agree upon a list of outputs and goals before the start of
the services. The bases for this agreement are indicated in the detailed job
descriptions which appear as Appendix A and in Figure 2 which indicates the
way responsibility for certain tasks is transferred from the JV specialists to
the Government counterparts over the course of the Project.
It will be the job of the Institutional Review Committee to monitor the
progress of institutional development, using the status of transfer over time
as the main indicator of success, and to investigate the reasons for delays in
this process by examining the performance of specialists, counterparts and
their staffs and external factors outside of the direct control of the Jv or
the Client.



- 101 -
ADIEX 3.4
Page S of 13
3.4   Timeframe
All the tasks in the areas of planning and budget are cyclical and the timing
of the associated outputs are linKed to the financial year of the Ministrv.
With or without the twinning, these processes have to continue, 1eading to the
draft submissions in May each year of the establishment, maintenance and
development budgets.  Working back -from this date, the full schedule of
planning_-activities can be set out, from field surveys and the routine annual
updates of basic information through to the formulation of the investment
program for the coming year in the form of an economically justified list of
subr-prc3erts.--  -   -             - :--- =-
The whole area of training must follow a different pattern because the first
step will be a "skills gap" study by experts in road maintenance to establish
target groups for training, the skills in which they should be trained and the
priorities for training development. Out of this will come the training
program for the 4-year period of the Project but for the process to be self
sustaining it may take 8-10 years before in-house trainers are providing all
the training of RHD and RRTD staff. Following the initial inputs by foreign
specialists, the use of local consultants in the team is seen as an interim
and transitional measure.
3.5   Procrram for Takinc Over the Jobs
To maintain the first priority of self sufficiency, the real measure of
achievement will be the timely handover of responsibility to counterpart
staff.  The whole cycle will comprise four phases:
-     design and establish.etit of improved or new procedures
-     application in the real situation
-     refinement and adjustments
-     hand-over
The length of this cycle depends on the activity in question.  Many activities
will be associated with the planning of the annual works programs which will
require a 2 or 3 year period before hand-over can be achieved, depending on
the timing when assistance can start ana the assessment of the staff
capabilities after training. In the Activity Chart of Figure 2 the four
stages above are translated into responsibility status under the symbols s, a,
b, and c, where s is by the specialist alone, a is a joint application by the
specialist and counterpart, b is an intermediate stage where the counterpart
works under supervision whilst the specialist checks that procedures are
readily achievable by the counterpart, and c is complete hand-over.
3.6   Operational Manuals
Apart from the normal progress and technical reporting detailed in Section 6,
to satisfy the primary objective of sustainability it is required that
operational manuals be prepared and left with the Client for use in the day-
to-day business of the Ministry, and later as training materials to be used by
MOC's own trainers.



- 102 _.
ANNEX   4
Page 6 of 13
Manuals must be clear and concise, preferably with some graphics and in a form
that can be slipped in the pocket, or in video format or a user-friendly disk
format where the application is to do with work on computers.
Manuals will normally be in the English language, but for operational manuals
for use in the field by -sub-professional staff or contractors, a greater
appreciation will be gained of these documents if they are presented in
Bengalisa8 we.1 as Englih. -_
4. PROVISION OF GoVERsM1T COUNTERPARTS
4.1 Countervarts Linked to Each Technical Assistant
In the job descriptions of Appendix A, the counterpart(s) 'or each of the
technical assistance specialists is specified in terms of his grade and
attachment, and it will be a requirement that before each special-4st is
mobilized the actual nomination shall be confirmed.
Notwithstanding the fact that some staff will be moved during the course of
the Project, it is preferable that staff wac. have newly arrived in their
section are nominated in order to give them the maximum possible exposure to
the new systems and procedures and to benaeLit from a coordinated training
program over the period of tenure in that position.
If a counterpart has to be moved to another section then his replacement will
be nominated well in advance and there will be a period of overlap not less
than three months, and preferably six months, during which time the original
counterpart will brief and train his successor. In the case of the BRRL staff
and the future trainers from amongst government staff, arrangements will be
made for longer periods assigned to the specialists, and for a much longer
hand-over period if changes cannot be avoided.
4.2 Minimum Oualifications and Initial Trainina
It is likely that the nominated counterparts will already have the necessary
skills but their assistants will have to be assessed for competence and the
Skills Gap Study will indicate the areas, and to what extent, basic training
is needed. This could be provided by the local consultant of the JV.
A reasonable competence in the English language is a necessary requirement for
the counterparts because it is the most common language used to disseminate
technical information. If this proves to be a major problem then steps can be
taken within the Project to arrange for language training by existing agencies
or by specialists.
5.    THE SERVICUS
5.1   Coordination of Services
The advantage of the twinning arrangement is its flexibility, where the Client
can rely on the JV to respond to what might be a changing situation during the
period    the Project.  Good coordination is essential for the success of the
services and much of the responsibility for this will fall on the Team Leader.



- ln3 _
ANNEX 3.4
Page 7 of 13
At the commencement of the services the Team Leader will make an appraisal of
the specialist requirements that have already been identified and for which
job descriptions are given in Appendix A of these Terms of Reference, and he
will check that counterparts are available and that all the necessary
facilities are in place for each expert to be mobilized and able to work with
reasonable efficiency. If the pre-requisites are not in place, then this will
be reported to the Client who will make the best endeavors to clear
outstandir. matters to facilitate the mobilization.
The intended organization and location of the twinning specialists is shown in
Figure i which also gives their relationship to the respective heads of
sections and counterparts. Within the JV team each specialist will also
report to the Team Leader to e4sure overall coordination and to appraise the
Team Leader of ar.y matters pertinent to the work of the Institutional Review
Committee.
To ensure continuity of command in the JV team during periods of leave, the
Team Leader will appraise the local Senior Roads Engineer on the JV team at
all times so that he can advise as well as deputize when needed.
5.2   Work Plan
Figure 2 shows the basis of an Activity Chart for the institutional
development program of the Project. As well as the expected timing and
duration of the activities, the Figure also indicates how the responsibility
for carrying out the activities moves from a responsibility shared by the
specialist and the counterpart (denoted by "all on the chart) to the stage
where the counterpart takes over the job .ompletely ( denoted by ac") after a
trial period of working under supervision (denoted by "b").   Where the
specialist alone is responsible an output, such as the Skills Gap Study, this
is denoted by "s".
Bangladesh has very sharply defined work periods as a result of the monsoon
season when civil works are impossible. During the monsoon months it is a
good time to hold staff training courses and for the purposes of the Activity
Chart of Figure 2 it has been assumed that the Project will start in October
1993 with the first training courses held in the fourth quarter of the first
year of the Project. Similarly, the budget planning process starts every
October an;. reaches its finalization in June or the third quarter of the
Project's first year. If the Project starts at a different month Figure 2
will require significant revision.
5.3   Staffing
The main roles in the twinning arrangement have been carefully identified and
the duties specified in Appendix A, with the relationships between specialist
and Client spelled out in Figure 1. The intended assignments for each
specialist are shown in Figure 3 - Staffing Schedule for Institutional
Development Program, including the estimated total input.
6.    REPORTX1G REQUZRBMEUTS
Five types of report are required of the JV. The frequency and numbers of
copies are given in the respective sections below. All reports are to be



- 104 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 8 of 13
drafted in a concise format with numerical data presented in tabular form
where possible, and each report to be prefaced with a brief summary.
6.1   Routine Progress ReRorrs
A short report to be issued 15 days after the expiry of each quarter in 10
copies describing the status of government counterparts, facilities, the
mobilization details of the JV specialists, a brief description of their
respective activities during the previous quarter and the expected activities
for the present quarter, finishing with a description of current problem areas
with the recommendations of the JV on possible solutions.
6.2   Milestone Reports
The first milestone report will list the dates and key achievements that are
anticipated during the course of the Project. Where possible these are to be
associated with one or other of the JV's technical assistants who would have
the main responsibility from the Supplier's side for hitting the milestone
targets. A summary table is to be developed based on the format of Figure 2
of these TOR and updated each quarter for inclusion in the Quarterly reports.
As each milestone is passed, an assessment is required of the improvement in
institutional capacity relating to the particular aspect, with special
emphasis on quantifying the response to the two major objectives of whether
self sufficiency has improved, and whether the agencies are becoming more
efficient in the business of maintaining the road network. The Milestone
Report may appear as an annex to the Quarterly Report. Ten copies.
6.3   Self Audits and Evaluations
It is desirable to carry out a systematic audit of the institutional
developments attributable to the Supplier, to check that real progress is
being made, that the planned developments are still in tune with the needs of
the Ministry and that they still have the right balance. This examination
will need the input of JV specialists not directly connected with the aspect
of the work under examination to ensure a critical evaluation, and a report
will be presented to the Institutional Review Committee every six months.
Similarly there will be an Evaluation Report following each training course
which will include the comments of participants as well as the assessment of
the effectiveness of course. Ten copies.
6.4   Specialist Technical  Reports
One set of Specialist Technical Reports will be generated by the BRRL for any
new research assignments and the twinning agency will be working very closely
with the laboratory on this to generate the research ethic and the maintenance
of the highest standards of documentation. Other types of Specialist Report
will include the work by the BRRL/BUET team on side friction effects to
traffic and the HDM-Q, and for any innovative planning methods that mighL be
evolved by RHD in getting to grips with the systematic planning of all
elements of the road, bridge and ferry systems of Bangladesh. Appropriate and
new methods of carrying out civil and maintenance works by contract should be
written up objectively by the JV and presented in expert reports for
international reference. Ten copies to be produced initially with disk files
and original plates held for further copying on demand.



- 105 -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 9 of 13
6.5 Operational Manuals
As systems are developed to deal with all aspects of planning for the
maintenance and rehabilitation of the road network, operational manuals need
to be produced, firstly as a reference document for future applications
(possibly by different staff new to the job), and secondly for use as training
documents in formal training courses. Ten copies to be produced initially
with disk files and original plates held for further copying on demand.
APPED IX A: JOB DESCRIPTIONS OF INDIVIDUAL SPECIALISTS (in project file)
1)    TEAM LEADER / TRAINING COORDINATOR
2)    PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT / HDM
3)    ROAD MAINTENANCE
4)    DATABASE / MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
5)    BRIDGES
6)    TRANSPORT ECONOMICS AND PLANNING
7)    MATERIALS
8)    MANAGEMENT TRAINING
9)    ROAD SAFETY
10)   LOCAL CONSULTANTS



- lOCi -
ANNEX 3.4
Page 10 of 13
Figure 1
ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION OF SPECIALISTS
Specialist          Circle        Approx    Location(s)         Reporting          Counterparted
%Time                           to:                   b y
(Ali in RHD Planning and Development Wir.c unless in BRRL. RRTD or 3RTA as stated)
Team Leader/         ACE (Plan&Devl       60    8RRL           ACE Plan & Uevt        D:rec#-  RRL
Training Coordinator                      40    RHD            ACE Plan & Devt        Drec.  dRRL
Pavement Manage-   HDM                    60    HDM Room    SE HDM Circle             EEs(2No)
ment / HDM           Monitoring &         40    M & E          SE M & Evaluation      EE
Evaluation
Road Maintenance     Monitoring &         100    M & E         SE M & Evaluation      EE
Engineer              Evaluation
Database/MlS         HDM                  10    HDM Room    SE HDM Circle             EE - Tranp E,on
Monitoring &        15    M & E          SE M & Evaluation      EE
Evaluation
Planning &           10    P & P         SE Planning & Prog     EE
Programming
Economics           40    Ml Cell        Snr Economist          EE M.l Cell
RRTD                20    Planning Cell  Joint Secretary (Devt?    Deputy Chief
BRTA                 5     Engineering    Director (Engineering)    Snr Staff Nomination
Bridge Engineer      SE Br Design         100    Br Design E    SE Br Design East     EE
Br Design W    SE Br Design West     EE
Transport Economist   Economics           60    Economics    Snr Economist            Economist
HDM                 20    HDM Room    SE HDM                    EE
RRTQ                 20    Planning Cell  Joint Secretary (Devt)    Transp Economist
Materials Engineer   BRRL                100    BRRL           Director BRRL          EE Training & QC
Management Expert   Estab & Admin         85    BRRL           SE Estab & Admin       Snr Staff Nomination
RRTD                 10    Planning Cell  Joint Secretary (Devtl   Snr Staff Nomination
P-RTA                5     Engineenng    Director (Engineering)    Snr Staff Nomination
Road Safety Expert    ORTA                80    Engineering    Director (Engineering)    Snr Staff Nomination
BRRL                20    BRRL           Director BRRL          EE Research & Test
Note: Local consultants will work with corresponding foreign specialists. Other Specialists will be called as needed.
Proposal of selected consultancy/twinning team has separate specialist for human resources developmentV
training (Figure 3). Table will be revised/updated in Project Inception Report.



Figure 2
ACTIVITY CIIART FOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
, ,,  ,, ,,,   ,,  ,,,. ........   I -t  S   I   1'- -I - l_ s l                             -
Activity                              Year 1             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4
Overall Institutional Coordination                                 s-    -                            --   a                  _
Make Links with Developing Country Representatives            s-
Negotiation and Agreements with BUET and IEB                       a -
Skills Gap Study                                       _         -
Overseas Training Program                                             _s                   a
Domestic Training Program                                          a                                  cc
Coordinate Upgrading of Facilities                      a--
Acquisition of Computer Hard and Software                     a- -
Mid-Term Review                                                                            s
Report on Institutional Development through RRMP-11           s         s        s         s          s        s         s
Training of Trainers in BRRL                                                        - a-                   I,,
Management Training Courses                                             s             _    s
Staff Assessments for Career Development                                    s-                -a_                   l 
Rationalisation of HDM Database                               _      -
Regular Data Updates                                          a -                                              c-
TORs and Liaison tor HDM-O Research Project                   s -                                              b -
Recallibration of HDM for Bangladesh                                                       b                  _C                 -c
H)DM Interpretation Course                                                            s                      
Formulation of Annual Works Programs                               a -               -b-
Improvements to Field Data Measuring Techniques               a--_    b -                             c-
Manual and O-T-J Training for Field Teams                             -s              a              _  - b                 |
Increased Awareness of QC Procedures                                   _s--         _    _ -a- --_-_ -       --b-_ 
Development of Standard Contract Docs in RHD                                a
Improved Management in Road Maintenance                                               a-                   b -c
Interim Report on the Status ot Industry Action Plan                                                                              a -
PIX
o x



Figuire 2 (cunct.)
Review Total Ml Needs fot RHD and MOC                  s-
Recommend MIS, Design and Apply                                                a
Manuals and Courses for Data Entry for RHD                          -a                   a
Manuals and Courses for Data Entry for RRTD                              -a                    _ -
Manuals and Courses lof Data Entry for BRRL                       s _
Data lnteruoation Courses                                                          - s
Report on Introduction of GIS                                             s -
O-T-J Training in Bridge Maintenance                                      _    b                   c _
Collation of Bfidge Condition and Risk Data            a-
Construction Management Course for Contractors                      _s                     sa
Concrete lQC Course and O-T-J Training                                        _                   _ a-  t)            c
Manual for Systematic Updating of Cost Models                     a-               -b-                  cc
TORs and Liaison of Ferries Elficiency Study                              s                -a
Value of Time Study                                               a                 b                   c _ 
Shadow Pricing Study                                              a-               -b_:
Environmental and Energy Audit Procedures                                  s-                 a-
Training Program for BRRL Testing Cadre
.._.Q.  .-. _ ..  _ -    _ ......... _. _ .   _   . -.... . . .... _  _  .  - a....- . . . b.
Research Prooram for Lime Stabilisation, with Trials                  a- b_                             -b --              -c-
Contractors and Artisans Training Courses                             a                  b
Road Safety Studylfmplementation                                                                       -d
RMSS Summary Reportlimplementation                                s _
Key:  s = By Specialist alone
a  By JV Specialist and Counterparts
b = By Counterpart under Supervision
c q B         ounterpar subject only to checking by JV Specialist
I - -r                                        --                                   >
Note: Table assumies 2td quartet (Oct) start-up. Trainini courses (durinig June-Septl shown in 3rd and 4th  quareters.   
Budget preparation indicated for completion in 3rd quarter. Table will be revised/updated in Project Inceptioni Reportt - 



- 1cw -
ANNX 3. 4
Figure 3                                               Page  13  of  13
STAFFING SCHEDULE FOR THE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Months
Year 1           Yea, 2           vear 3            Year 4      _oreign  Local
Tea- Leader Pfo ec- CocrdUmator                                         _                                    42
Semnor H.gh*vav Er.g-ee'                                                                 _______
HRTraining Soeca st                                                                                          31 i 5
PM4S  HDM Soeciasust                 .   ._._._._31 5
PMS ' HOM Spec.ahst                                    ____________38
Road Maintenance Engineer                                                     -       .                      31-5
Road Maintenance Engmeer g f                                                                               _             42
Oatabase / MIS Specialist               ____-                                                                 18    -
Database / MIS Specialist            __________38
Bridge Engineer                                                                                              28.5    ___
Bridge Engineer                               -                                          _  _  _  _ _                    35
Transport Economtst        ______.___._,_15.6
Transport Economist            _      _.  -     -                                                                        28
Materials Engineer                          .    _                      * ; . .     -21
Materials Engineer                           -        -..-_, ._-. _ -_; _   _33
Management Specialist                   - --.---;-.                                                           8
Road Safety Specialist                    -            _                _          . _  _                     2
Road Safety Spectalhst                            _            _                                              6 e
Senior Bnidge Engineer
Senior Economist                     _                _                                                        1      _ 1
Skills GaD Analyst                   _                _                                                        1
Other Specialists on Oemand-   - ;                                                                - j         35         12
Total W                                                _               .                  _    _.            274.5      270
Note: Staffing schedule proposd by selected consultancy/twinning team; schedule with TOR had tugher foreign:local fx, but invitation
encouraged maximum use of local expertise. I                                      I



SECOND SW AEAMILITATION AND NAI&TENAMCE PROJECI
Projects Caqomenta by Tear
Total* Ilcluding CemtiIlnicfe                                                lotatc Inctuding Citingeaiclts
TAKA                                                                         SOLI
.................. .... ;............................. .......................... ....................................................... . ) ....... ..... ... ..
93/94     94/95      "5/96    96/97    97/9         98/99      lotal        93/94    94/95    95/96    96M91    97/96    98/99    lotat
A. aO WORKS
1. REABILITATIIOI                         0.0     388.5       5.3   1046.0    256.3           0.0   2445.1            0.0        9.6      16.2      24.6        S.9       0.0      58. 2
2. WIOENING                               0.0       0.0        0.0    239.1    418.4    175.7    833.2                 0.0       0.0       0.0        5.6       9.4       3.9       19.1
3. PERIODIC  AINU T-UIDE ROS            207.2    641.5       60.4      547.9    53.S        109.8   2680.3             5.2      15.8      1S.4       12.9      12.2       2.5       6  O
4. PERIODIC 1I6A11 4AA W 3I0S            92.6    275.6       S15.9    941.4    98.5    214.2   3328.1                  2.3       6.8       19.6      22.1      22.7        4.8      7 8.3
.~~~~~~~~~~...
Shrlotat                                    2119.7      130.7   2210.6   2174.4   2196.6    499.7   9286.7                  7.5      32.2      53.2       65.2      50.4      11.2    219.6
U. POEP/IWLENEMI SUPPWRT
1. A0   NIOKS SUPERVISION                57.3      So.7       61.7      54.6       S2.3      27.S    312.3             1.4       1.4 6       .5       1.3       1.2       0.6        7.5
2. DETAILED GESIGNI/11-6e- B0             0.0      49.7       19.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      68.7           0.0       1.2        0.5       0.0       0.0        0.0       1.7
3. fEASSSILIIV/PIEP ueI                   0.0       13.6      42.7       ".0       31.4       16.5     148.9           0.0       0.3        1.0       1.1        0.7       0.4       3.5
4.  WAP PREPIIMPLENENII                   8.6       13.6       14.2       0.0        0.0       0.0      36.6           0.2        0.3       0.3       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.9
S"-Total                                      66.      1355       137.6       99.6      13.T      43.9    56.S             1.6       3.3        3.3       2.3       1.9        1.0      13.5
C. IUSTITUTIOWAL DEIELOPHEN
1.  iPCIALISIS                            0.0      67.8       15.9       74.1      36.6      16.5    271.5             0.0       1.7        1.6       1.a       0.o        0.4       6.5
2. TRAINIGIRESEARCII                      0.0        9.0      23.7       24.9      15.7        S.5      78.8           0.0       0.2        0.6       0.6       0.4        0.1       1.9
3. FACILITIESE3IPIENT                     0.0       18.1      28.5        0.0       0.0        0.0      46.S           0.0       0.4        0.7       0.0         0.0     0.0       1.1
..................................  .................................................   ............ ................ ......................... . ... .,,....^   . 
SAi-TotaI                                      0.0      94.9    12.1         99.6       52.3      22.0    396.8             0.0       2.3        3.1       2.3       1.2       o.s        9.5
lt. NllscILAiEIXIaS
1. LAID A IIESEIIENENt                   0.0     187.9       67.8        0.0       0.0       0.0    255.8             0.0       4.6        1.6      .0.0       0.0       0.0        6.3
2. STAFF tllENTIVES                       0.0       12.3      12.9        9.1       4.8        S.O      44.1           0.0       0.3        0.3      .0.2       0.1        0.1       1.0
3. fIf CLISAJSlUIENT-HA1NT                0.0      63.3        9.S       10.0       5.2        5.S      93.4           0.0        1.6       0.2       0.2       0.         0.1       2.3
SkhrTotat                                      0.0     26.S        90.3       19.0      10.0      10.5    393.3             0.0       6.5       2.2        0.4       o.a       0.2        9.6
... ..*_.......... ............................. I.......................................    .... . ..... . ...... ....... .... ..... .......... .....................
Total PIOJEClS COSIS                        365.    17W9.6   2566.5   292.7   2342.6    576.1  10643.3                     9.1       44.4      61.        70.13     53.7      12.9    252.2
........................... ...  .....  ..... .*. .... . .  *. . . . ............ . . ...  ... ......... ... .. .. .. .. ........ ............
values Sccled by 1000000.0 S/13/119 9:59



- Ill -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
--- Source of Funds---
Category                                     IDA       ODA I/   GOB    Total
Road Works
Rehabilitation                                     46.6        -     11.6      58.2
Widening                                           15.3        -      3.8      19.1
Periodic Maintenance (Wide Roads)                  31.5        -     32.5      64.0
Periodic Maintenance (Narrow Roads)                38.5      _       39.8      78,3
Subtotal:                                  131.9        -     87.7    219.6
Preparation/Imnlementation Support
9oad Works Supervision                              7.5        -        -       7.5
Detailed Design/N-H-B Road                          1.7        -        -       1.7
Feasibility Studies/Preparatory Work                3.5        -        -       3.5
RAP Preparation/Implementation                      0.9        -                0.9
Subtotal:                                   13.5        -         -     13.5
Institutional Development
Specialists                                           -     6.5         -       6.5
Training/Research                                     -     1.7       0.2       1.9
Facilities/Equipment                                  -     0.6       0.5       l.l
Subtotal:                                      -      8.8       0.7      9.5
Miscellaneous
Land Acquisition/Resettlement                         -        -      6.3       6.3
Staff Incentives                                      -        -      1.0       1.0
Vehicles/Equipment (Maintenance)                    l.4        -      0O.9      2.3
Subtotal:                                    1.4        -      8.2       9.6
Total:                                                 .8   ,96.6    254.32
Note:  Totals may not add due to rounding.
a/ An allocatfon of up to 6.4 million pounds sterling (about US$ 9.5 million) of British grant assistance over
four years for the project's institutionaL deveLopment program has been approved.



RHD ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENtATION
Rehabiltion Componenl
AdIbonat PCWDI
*......                    ChitPeeer,el    Otet  r m----------------.
NATOFK            .RFtKStAHI tl                                           .RANGPUR
FIEL>D Of FICE                                        FIELD OFFICE                                          FIELD OFFICE
Prejea tshnagv   *                      ~~~~Pwqei tmanasf                                     Prqeci Manager                      
SU8NtSON         USDVtSOFRC                      SUBFSCONt            StOFFIeCE0                       SUB0DIVISIOEN           OFFIplCE,O
Resetement                         CbUm               kquisilYWorks                                          Acquisdton
8 iNbk ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~& Pteselletnent Ws8R#bmr
PCWD = Pro    CMI Works Dieclor
Noe:  PrFect Magr at Nae wit be responsibe tor Contracts 1 and 2 coveming Dasua to Natore irncdung the Natore bypass
Pr*td Manager at FjthahiW  wI be responsible fot Contracts 3 and 4 comeng Natore to Nawabgenl.
PF*cat M     r at Ragp  wil be responsble lor Contracts 5 and 6 cvefing Rangpur to Saldpur Mcludng Ihe Saidpur bypass.
Eath d three sutislon ofces dealno Mh land   usuition and reselement wit be nder dtarge d designted Resettlement Oticer
who w  have  red  nta  wh the A= ionat   DChl Psenemen Ofic Iot the pcea.
Located at Saidpur as main land acqwiesee t acties petain to Saldpu bypass.
sadskw53768b
N



RHD ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Pefiodic Maiftenance Program
|    PCWD
COORDINATOR
ADDITIONAL CE                            AD|UM                                    ADDITIONAL CE                       |    ADtDITIONAL CE
RANPUR ZONE                              RAElSIUflZONE                             K11ULNA ZONE                             BARISAL ZONE
Psqec Dhctw                              Pt*4Dcw DiOWolect Dirtx ot                                                        Ptoject Dlstcltr
|         .                    |                   1.                    X             .     |                   ,              ^    L~S.E  S ,  S
SINAJPUR          RANGPUR               PABNA              RAJSHAIIt               S E.             JESSORE              FARIDPUR             BARISAL
ROAD CIRCIE        sROAD CIRCLE          ROAD ORCLE           ROAD CIRCLE          ROAO CRCLE          ROAD CIRCLE          ROAD CIRCLE         ROAD CIRCLE
lional   AbSlbtWI    Aid btwl            hAiddbmat           Mdeonal              Addxboal             Addtional            Addibonal
Pskta                PlojrPoPoje                                                                       Pro1ecl              Project
Oiclx   lkedwctOiredor   0Eredor  tCrecIor  lDrecor           Director            Direclor
-EE                 IEE                    _ _ EE               EE                 -EE                   EE                   EE                 EE
oqEE                  R9puir              _PaRaEKa                                                     -JEessore             Fandpur              Bantsa
tEExurgak lt        KEEaMSeErogar                            -Nogeton              Bagertat            Junaidah              Gopan- Paluakhali
E          E          E                   EE                  EE                   EE                  EE                    EE                  FE
N    "oNhamaatoe                                              Natwabganj           Sahtera             Kusuba                Madaripur           ehcta
rEE                                                                                                                       _EE
Gafandba                                                                                                                    Ferozpur
PCWD: Proect Cd Woirks Director
SE. Supenntending Engineet
E.E: Executve Engineer
Note: bT EEs wd be Pro  Managers fr perodic mienance work cafied   t rt dter rons undr the prqect.
sadskte3766a                              Ela
Ph



Second Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance Project
Project Impntlentatlon Schedule
.1.  .   t993  1994    1995        1996        1997        1998       1999        2000
ID  Name                                            0|Q23041020 Q04Q01102103|04 0110203040Q102103104 j1Q2031044    230                  102103104 01
II 16Rhabilitation  aI                                                                                                     Rehabilitation
2      1.1 Preraion of Bid Documents                                                                                                   - _ _   -  -
3      1.2 Prequalification of Contractor
4      1.3 Tendering Petiod
5      1.4 Evaluation of Bide
6      1.5 Award of Contract
7      1.6 Contract Mobilizetion
8      1.7 Statn of Work
9      1.8 Construction Period
10      1.9 Maintenance Period
t1t 2W2 Widening                                    _ ___deni
12     2.1 Pteparation of Work Programn
13     2.2 Preparation of Bid Documents
14     2.3 Prequatification of Contractor
15     2.4 Tendering Period
to     2.5 EvaluatIon of Bide
17      2.6 Award of Contract
18     2.7 Contract Mobilization
19     2.8 Start of Work
20      2.9 Construction Period
21      2.10 Maintenance Period
22  3 1at Year Periodic Maintenance                  _tY _ Periodic M,int ngkc_
23      3.1 Preparation of Bid Documents
24      3.2 Proequlificatlon of Contractor
25     3.3 Tendering Period                                                                                                                              0 - 
26      3.4 Evaluaton of Bide
27      3.6 Award of Contract                       _
28     3.6 Contract Molization



Sond Road Reheb_ttlo n  Maintenc Profect
Project Implemwmntto Sehedu
1993        1994       199S        1996        1997        1998        1999        2000
ID  Name                                             11020I13104C)1102103104  1t020Q30Q41 0Q2Qa(3a04 a1 0203 04 Q1 0210304Q1 0203104 0102 03a04
29     3.7 Start of Work                            -                                -                                            -
30     3.8 Construction Perod
31 4 2nd Year Periodic Maintenance                                                             7dYa  eidcMi
32     4.1 Preparation of Work Program
33     4.2 Preparation of Bid Documents
34     4.3 PrequalHicatlon of Contractor    _-- 
35     4.4 TendrWing Period
36     4.5 Evaluation of Bids
37     4.6 Award of Contract
38     4.7 Contract Mobilizatin
39     4.8 Start of Work
40     4.9 Construction Period
41  5 3rd Year Periodic Maintenance                                 __ _                                   3rd Year Periodic   i.ntenance
42     5. 1 Preparation of Work Program                _  _-
43     5.2 Preparation of Bid Documents        _    _  __ _ _r- t                                                                            t 
44     5.3 Prequalification of Contractor
45     5.4 Tendering Period
46     5.5 Evaluation of Bids
17     5.6 Award of Contract
48     5.7 Contract Mobilization
49     5.8 Start of Work
50     5.9 Construction Period                                 2 |      | |.-_
51 6 4th Year Periodic taintenance                                         -                         H -               4th Year Peic M antenance
52     6.1 Preparation of Work Program
53     6.2 Preparation of Bid Documents
54     6.3 Prequalificatlon of Contractor
55     6.4 Tendering Period
56     6.5 Evaluation of Bids
o 0



Second Road Rehabltation & Maintenace Project
Project imlementation Schedule
1993        1994        196         1996        1991         1998        1999        2000
ID  Name                                             01021031040l10210310401Q20Q30Q4Q1 Q21030 1 Q 02QC3104 GI 02030401Q203  4 01102 03 04
67     6.6 Award of Contract                         Q4
_ -      _ . _   _  _   _ _ _  _  _~ _- _  _  _   _  _   - .   --I. -                      I
68     6.7 Contract Mobgization_
69     6.8 Start of Work _
60      6.9 Construction Period                                                                                 , ,.
61  7 Civil Works Supervision                        _f _  _ _                                                                 *      Civil Works
62      7.1 Preparation of TORLOI/Shortlist                                                                                -
63      7.2 Tender Period
64      7.3 Evaluationof Proposals
66      7.4 Negotiation and Contract Award
66      7.5 Mobilization Period
67      7.6 Start of Work
68      7.7 Supervision Period                                                                     _ .  _ 1
69  8 Institutional Development Program                                                                                         Institutional Develo me nt
70      8.1 Preparation of TORiLOIIShortlist
71     8.2 Tender Period
72     8.3 Evaluation of Proposals
73     8.4 Approval of Consultant
74      8.5 Negotiation and Contract Awad
76      8.6 Mobilization Period
78      8.7 Stant of Work
77     8.8 Implementation Period                                                                         , /,    -    , -
a/    Schedule for bidding rehabilitation works pertains to four contracts  starting in first year of
project; bidding of two remaining contracts (&atore and Saidpur bypasses), which have a 2-year
construction period, will follow schedule for second year peri.odic maintenance works.
0-



- 117 -
Annex 3.9
LOCAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCEDURES
The understandings below, agreed during negotiations, will bring RHD's local
procurement procedures into line with the Bank's guidelines:
(a) no numerical limitation will be placed on qualified firms which may be  -
registered except that firms of a member country or goods manufactured in
a member country may be excluded if, as a matter of law or official
regulation, Bangladesh prohibits commercial relations with that country,
provided that the Bank is satisfied that such exclusion does not preclude
effective competition for the supply of goods or works required;
(b) prior registration of local firms may be made a condition of qualification
to bid, but unregistered eligible foreign bidders are permitted to
participate in the bidding. The bidder to whom it is proposed to award
the contract, however, may be required to register before award is made;
(c) any of the following forms of earnest money and/or performance guarantee
will be accepted: bid bond through local bank, government securities,
guar-antee bl local bank or performance bond;
(d) all sources eligible under World Bank procurement guidelines will be
accepted as eligible source countries;
(e) prior concurrence of IDA will be obtained before rejecting all bids and/or
negotiating with bidders;
(f) any re-bidding because of lack of competition will be on a fully open
basis (not limited) and time for re-bidding will not be less than 30 days;
(g) no preference of any kind will be given to any bidder;
(h) no "bracketing" (rejection of bid outside pre-established brackets) will
be used;
(i) performance security will be required of all successful bidders on a
uniform basis;
(j) all disputes will be resolved through arbitration carried out in
accordance with the Bangladesh Arbitration Act of 1940 by fully
independent arbitrators, or a sole arbitrator agreed between the parties
and not in any way associated with the parties to the dispute or having
any responsibility for the contract or the work thereunder; if arbitration
is not successful, then the disputes will be referred to the local courts;
(k) no discretionary power to waive any procurement procedure will be given;
(1) GOB will reimburse contractors for unilateral modificetions of work and
the costs related thereto; IDA may be requested to reimburse such expenses
resulting from such modifications as IDA may find were made in the
interest of the project or were beneficial to the project; and
(m) a contractor's performance guarantee will apply only to the specific
contract under which it was furnished and not to any other losses
unrelated to such contract.



- 118 -
ANNEX 3.10
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year    Semester         Cumulative Disbursement          8arTk Profile
and Semester     Disbursement                                  (AD RegionsllHihways)
(US$ milonl    US$ million)     t%)              _ (%
FY95
Dec. 31, 1994           6.2           6.2            4                     0
June 30, 1995          18.5           24.7           17                    3
FY96
Dec. 31, 1995          16.0           40.7           28                    6
June 30. 19968         16.2           56.9           39                    14
FY97
Dec. 31, 1996          19.3           76.2           52                    26
June 30, 1997          18.8           95.0           65                    34
FY98
Dec. 31, 1997          15.9          110.9           76                   46
Juna 30, 1998          14.9          125.8           86                    58
FY99
Dec. 31, 1998          10.6          136.4           93                   70
June 30, 1999           6.9          143.3           98                    78
FYOO
Dec. 31, 195>           3.0          146.3           99                   86
June 30, 2000           0.5          146.8          100                    94
FYO0
Dec. 31, 2000               --Disbursed--          -                      96
June 30, 2001           .-          Disbursed-                             98
FY02
Dec. 31, 2001            ----Disbursed--                                  100
100
90
80X  
70
*  60
o  50                                           -       SAR Estimates
*30                                                    Bank Profile
20__                                          _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
10
0,
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16
Semester



- 119 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 1 of 5
SUMMARY OF PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.        The Environmental Analysis of the Second Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP-II) presents the findings of an enlvironmental
investigation undertaken on behalf of the Bangladesh Ministry of
Communications, Roads and Highways Department (RHD). RRMP-I-I is planned to
implement specific road improvements in the western part of Bangladesh and is
funded by the World Bank. The level of analysis is established by the Bank's
determination that the project does not require a full environmental
assessment (EA) as that term is defined by its Operational Directive 4.01.
The project has been designated by the World Bank as Category B within its
three-part classification system. (Category A requires a full EA; Category C
requires no environmental analysis beyond that determination). The project
does, however, require a lesser level of environmental investigation as
defined by the investigation's terms of reference, i.e., a Category B
environmental analysis as summarized herein.
2.        The analysis focuses primarily on five road realignments and town
bypasses to be constructed as part of RRMP-II and assesses other improvements
and maintenance activities. Other than the five sub-projects, activities are
confined to existing rights-of-way (ROWs), but road widenings, other earth-
disturbing activities and indirect impacts beyond the ROWs (e.g., borrow pits)
will also occur. Improved access will have a generally positive impact
throughout the area, as well as reduced congestion resulting in generally
lower levels of emissions, although no detailed modeling was conducted.
Puroose
3.        The purpose of the analysis is to ensure that the project options
in general and the five sub-projects in particular are environmentally sound
and sustainable and to identify ways of improving the project environmentally,
by preventing, minimizing, mitigating or compensating for adverse impacts.
Organization
4.        Although the project has been determined to fall in Category B and
does not require a formal EA, the analysis is organized in the format outlined
for an EA by Bank directives, i.e., an overview assessment of the existing
conditions in the study area; identification and assessment of the potential
positive and negative impacts of RRMP-II; analysis of alternatives to and
within RRMP-II in general, including alternative realignment and bypass
proposals, alternative construction materials and other details; mitigation
and enhancement recommendations; environmental management and training
recommendations; and environmental monitoring recommendations.
Findings
5.        Potential impact on the area's hydrology is one of the most
important topics of potential environmental concern. Earlier projects have
had adverse impacts on flooding characteristics. Following the re-evaluation



- 120 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 2 of 5
of the RHD's design parametere after the 1988 floods, however, the sizing of
bridges and other drainage structures no lcnger assumes that planned, but as
yet unrealized, flood control, drainage and irrigation schemes will limit
future flood flows. Bridges, culverts and other drainage structures are,
therefore, sized to accommodate flood levels under existing rather than
hypothetical conditions and incorporate the best available flood data. As a
result of this revised approach, RRMP-II is not expected to have an adverse
effect on flood and drainage patterns; vulnerability of roads to flood damage
will be minimized. To ensure that potential adverse hydrological impacts are
minimized, while at the same time taking changing conditions into account,
the analysis recommends:
*    Monitoring of flood conditions aa they may change over time or
become better known. Although the project is proceeding on the
basis of the best available data and safest assumptions, changes to
existing conditions are likely due to eventual implementation of
flood control, drainage and other schemes and other factors. New
information may be generated by Flood Action Program and its
supporting analysis. Monitoring of the situation to ensure optimal
sizing of drainage structures is recommended.
6.        In other areas of potential environmental concern, the analysis
finds that environmental considerations have been incorporated in each stage
of the project. Resettlement and cultural resource issues at one sub-project
location (Saidpur) will require resolution I/; generally, however, selected
sub-project alternatives are those with the least potential for adverse
environmental impact. Nonetheless, in spite of the lack of significant
adverse impact as that term is defined for environmental review purposes,
impacts to the environment, both positive and negative, will occur and a
series of mitigation and/or enhancement actions are recommended as follows:
*    Integrate Road improvements with Urban Planning & Commercial
Accovaodation Actions. Road development in Bangladesh in general
and improvements in the RRMP I in particular have been successful
in opening trade and commerce and getting goods to market.
Unfortunately, however, sometimes there is no "market" there in the
physical sense. Transport and land use planning are not
coordinated. Physical accommodations for commercial activities are
meager. The effectiveness of the RRMP-II road improvements will be
diminished by the overspill of commercial activity into the roadway
and related congestion. It is recommended that the program
mitigate these impacts by including delineation of commercial
activity areas for coordinated actions with the Ministry of Local
Government (MLG), the lead agency for non-transport physical
planning. Coordinated actions are recommended in both rural market
areas and urban centers, particular Saidpur and Natore.
Coordination with local officials will be critical to the success
of these efforts.
J/  An alternative alignment was agreed during negotiations to avoid potential resettlement problems;
environmental considerations as discussed in the environmental analysis will be incorporated in the
detailed designJbid documents.



- 121 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 3 of 5
*    Increase the Extent of Consultation with Potentially Affected
Populations. Consultation with potentially affected populations
have been limited, possibly due to the largely remedial nature of
the project thus far, but have been conducted in conjunction with
the resettlement aspects of the project. Opportunities for
integration of actions as recommended above and potential impacts
on human settlements in both rural and urban areas (e.g., the
Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate Route and Saidpur, respectively) make
more broadly-based consultation with affected populations
increasingly important. Mechanisms to facilitate such
consultations exist at the local level. -Greater coordination with
local government officials will facilitate both the coordination of
development programs and consultations with affected populations.
Moreover the assistance of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in
resettlement will also support RHD in this process.
O    Incorporate Environmental Provisions in Contracts and
Specifications. RRMP-II is particularly fortunate that certain
votential direct and indirect impacts of the program do not appear
to be substantial issues in practice, e.g., reported practices in
regard to the restoration of borrow pits and construction camps.
It is postulated that if this is indeed the case, it is probably
attributable to the fact that these elements are the subject of
short-term lease agreements with property owners who have a
continuing long-term, stewardship interest in the land. To
reinforce this stewardship and to provide for the contingency of
its absence, standard provisions for the avoidance of environmental
degradation and encouragement of environmental restoration should
be included in RRMP-II contractor contracts to provide a
contractual basis for enforcement. Specific recommendations are
presented.
*    Use Lime Consolidation In Preference To Brick Aggregate.  The
possible use of alternative construction materials is an important
environmental consideration. RHD has generated some technical and
economic documentation regarding the use of lime consolidation
versus brick aggregate. From an environmental perspective, the
indirect impact of increasing the demand for brick with its
attendant degradation of agricultural land (even if temporary),
additional air pollution caused by the burning of imported coal (at
best) and depletion of scarce wood resources (as is currently
common practice) to create the brick, in the face of an apparently
viable and cheaper alternative, must be considered questionable.
The lack of local contractor expertise in the use of lime
consolidation techniques is recognized. While it is not an
immediate issue under RRMP-II because no reconstruction is
currently envisioned, an effort to upgrade contractor expertise in
industry training programs (discussed below) could mitigate the
impediment to use of the technique over the longer term.
*    Continue Aind Where Possible Expand Tree Planting Activities.
Extensive roadside tree planting occurs throughout the project



- 122 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 4 of 5
area, including areas of tree removal by RRMP-II.  These actions
mitigate adverse impacts of RRMP-II and should be continued.
*    Assign Environmental Management To A Designated Office.  RHD's
organizational structure does not currently provide a focal point
with responsibility for environmental issues. In the absence of
assigned responsibility, follow-up and monitoring of recommended
environmental actions will be haphazard at best. Currently, the
office of the Chief .Ar-boriculturist is the clQsest approximation of
an environmental unit within the RHD structure. It is recommended
that this office become the nucleus of an environmental unit.
Responsibilities and staff of the office should be expanded to
include environmental monitoring responsibility, including, but not
limited to tree-planting. Expanded responsibilities would include
the monitoring of environmental data sources (e.g., the flood
control projects), enforcement of environmental restoration actions
recommended as part of the standard contract provisions and
organization of environmental training programs as discussed below.
_    Initiate Environmental Training & Adaptation of Environmental
Guidelines for RHD Staff and Contractors. As far as has been
determined in the course of the environmental investigation, no
environmental training or guidelines are offered to RHD Staff or
road contractors. Such activities do occur in other ministries
with related mandates, as witnessed by the Guidelines on
Environmental Issues Related to Physical PlanninQ, published by the
MLG and Environmental Reference Book and related materials prepared
as a part of the CARE Integrated Food for Work (IFFW) project which
also undertakes road projects. The World Bank has already noted
the need for "improved techniques and environmentally sound
approaches to road construction" by contractors (Annex 8 of the
Aide Memoire following the November-December 1992 Mission),
presumably through institutional development programs, including
programs targeted at the road-construction industry. An
environmental training component is recommended as a part of that
effort, possibly through adaptation of the materials noted and in
concert with the MLG and others.
7.        A table summarizing recommended actions, rationale and lead
responsibilities is attached. A tabular summary of recommended actions by
environmental criteria is also presented in the body of the full report on the
project environmental analysis.
Resettlement Issues
S.        Population resettlement issues are discussed in summary in the
environmental analysis and in detail by a separate survey and resettlement
plan prepared for the project (Annex 3.12). Compensation with assistance in
locating and purchasing replacement land, rather than resettlement sites, are
proposed. Unresolved resettlement issues existed at one sub-project location
(Saidpur) at the time of the environmental analysis; these have subsequently
been resolved by agreeing an alternative alignment for the Saidpur bypass.



- 123 -
ANNEX 3.11
Page 5 of 5
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDED P.CTIONS
RECOMMENDED                      SUPPORTING                 LEAD/COORDINATION
ACTION                         RATIONALE              RESPONSIBILITY
Monitor existing conditions  Design-of bridges & culverts         RHD and Project
& best available flood        based on actual rather than        Consultants.
data.                         hypotechnical situation
minimizes the potential for
undersizing.  The situation will
change over time, however.
Integrate RRMP-II with        Mitigates adverse impacts of       RHD in cooperation
rural & urban development    overspill onto roads; eliminates   with Ministry of Local
programs.                     congestion; maximizes benefits.    Government and Thana
engineers and
l________________________________   officials.
Increase consultation with   Increasingly important to           RHD and NGOs assisting
potentially affected          achieve integration of              in resettlement, in
populations.                  development programs.               cooperation with Thana
officials.
Inco.L'porate environmental   Provides a contractual basis for   RED and Project
provisions in contracts and  enforcement of environmental         Consultants.
specifications.               mitigation actions.
Use lime consolidation in    Avoids adverse impacts on land      RHD assisted by
preference to brick           and air quality; avoids             institutional
aggregate.                    depletion of wood; cheaper.        development
initiatives under the
project.
Continue and expand tree      Provides renewable resource and    RHD as an on-going
planting.                     habitat.                           activity.
Assign environmental          Ensures follow-up.                  RHD.
management responsibility.                                                                l
Initiate environmental        Minimizes adverse impacts.         RHD assisted by
training.                                                        institutional
development
initiatives under the
project.



- 124 -
ANNEX 3.12
Page 1 of 11
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
Backaround
1.        There are five sites under the project where construction of new
road alignments has been proposed, necessitating acquisition of land:
(a) Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate Route: This is a 12 km realignment
where the existing road is threatened by erosion from the Padma
river. The road will pass through mostly thinly populated
agricultural area. Total area to be acquired is 59.5 ha;
(b)  Natore Bypass: The 5.9 km alignment follows an old embankment owned
by Bangladesh Railways for about 4 km, while the rest is private
semi-urban land. Total area to be acquired is 29.5 ha;
(c) Saidpur Bypass: Two alternative alignments have been considered--a
northern and a southern route. In part to reduce impacts in terms
of land acquisition and resettlement, GOB has decided to follow the
northern route. This entails a total alignment of 8 km, of which
about 4 km have to be acquired, mostly agricultural area. The total
area to be acquired is 19.7 ha;
(d) Ghagot River: A new bridge across Ghagot river will be constructed,
which will require acquisition of 0.8 km right-of-way, mostly farm
land. Total area to be acquired is 3.7 ha; and
(e)  Dasuria Intersection: This is a 0.5 km new alignment to improre an
existing intersection. Total area to be acquired is 2.6 ha.
Total area of land to be acquired under the project is 115 ha.
Impact of Land Accuisition
2.        Land acquisition in Bangladesh is known to cause severe adverse
impacts on the majority of affected people, for the following reasons:
(a) The level of compensation for land has generally been far below the
market value of the lost properties;
(b) Because of the small average land holdings in Bangladesh, people
are extremely vulnerable to losses of productive land; and
(c) The Ordinance which governs land acquisition by the Government only
recognizes legal owners of properties being acquired. This
excludes different kinds of people in Bangladesh who commonly live
on land or derive their income from land (or from enterprises on
the affected land) without legal ownership of the land (and/or
property) being acquired.
3.        In compliance with the principles of the Bank's Operational
Directive 4.30, a resettlement action plan (RAP) has been prepared for the
project, which addresses the above mentioned problems. The main challenges of
this plan have been to: (a' develop an improved mechanism for valuation of



- 125 -
ANNEX 3.12
Page 2 of 11
land; (b) develop policies which adequately address the need for restoring
income levels of agriculture-based households; (c) identify and define non-
property owners in need of assistance; and (d) design mechanisms which
adequately ensure proper relocation of households losing their homesteads.
4.        One of Bangladesh's larger NGOs--Christian Commission for
Development in Bangladesh (CCDB)--was contracted by RHD, in November 1993, to
prepare the RAP and later be involved in assisting RHD during implementation.
Previously, a socio-economic survey and preliminary resettlement plan had been
prepared by Louis Berger/Sarm (January 1993). CCDB conducted a new survey
over the period November 1993-February 1994 which gave the following results:
(a)  963 land owners will lose land;
(b) of which, 260 represent households that will have to relocate their
homesteads;
(c) in addition, 260 squatter households will also have to be
relocated;
(d) 164 farmers will lose access to land they presently sharecrop,
lease or have as mortgage for a loan; and
(e) 560 workers will lose regular wage income.
5.        These people come from 1,365 households, identified by the survey
and who are living, cultivating or working in the affected area. This
constitutes a total affected population of about 8,000 people. It is expected
that the number of individual landowners will be considerably higher than 963,
since the survey covered only households resident in the area and not all
owners registered in the land title deeds (e.g., absentee owners). Details
are in Table 1.
Leaal Framework
6.        Land and other properties will be acquired under the Acquisition
and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance, 1982. Para. 8(2) of the
Ordinance was amended in September 1993, to raise the premium on the
calculated market value of land "in consideration of the compulsory nature of
the acquisition" from 20% to 50%.
7.        The Deputy Commissioner's (DC's) Office is the acquiring body
acting on behalf of RHD (the requiring body). In this project there are five
DCs involved: Rajshahi, Natora, Pabna, Rangpur, Nilphamari; and possibly two
additional ones, Dinajpur and Chapai Nawabganj, depending on the final
alignment of Saidpur bypass and Rajshahi-Nawabganj realignment.
8.        The land acquisition process is still in its early stages for all
sites. As of March 1994, the Notice under Section 3 of the Ordinance
(notifying publicly which plots have been proposed for acquisition) had been
served for three sites, the exceptions being Dasuria (in progress) and
Saidpur. Field verification of assets to be acquired has yet to be initiated.



- 126 -
AMEX 3.12
Page 3 of 11
Compensation Policy
9.        The policies and mechanisms developed in the RAP are primarily
cash-based, with the exception of support for relocation to poor households
(primarily squatters). It is recognized that land-for-land compensation is
not feasible nor desirable with the acquisition of long strips of land (right-
of-way). Most farmers will lose only parts of their holdings and will prefer
not to move, and cannot make use of land allocated by the Government somewhere
else. The primary focus of the policy is therefore on adequate cash
compensation. Within this framework, GOB has agreed to: (a) offer
compensation for properties/aspets based on their --placement value; (b)
include compensation and assistance to affected non-property owners; (c)
compensate for relocation costs; and (d) provide compensation for temporary
loss of income. These provisions meet the requirements of Operational
Directive 4.30 with respect to resettlement and rehabilitation.
10.       The following types of losses are recognized under the compensation
and resettlement policy:
(a) Loss of land which is acquired, assets thereon, and
proceeds/benefits thereof:
-agricultural land including ponds, trees/orchards and income
losses until these assets are replaced; and
-homestead land including structures/shops and dislocation costs
until these are replaced or relocated.
(b) Loss of assets on land not owned but acquired:
-structures on unauthorized (e.g., government/khas land) or other
people's (e.g., father, relative), costs of finding alternative
place of residence and dislocation costs.
(c) Loss of employment/income from loss of access to other people's
assets--agricultural land, shops, factories which are acquired:
-agricultural land for sharecropping/leasing;
-agricultural land for mortgaging;
-rented house or commercial structure; and
-employment/income sites (e.g., farm house, factories).
(d) Loss of income from disruption in profession resulting from losses
noted above:
-business or industry (from own or rented premises).
11.       Definition of the persons recognized as having these losses (i.e.,
entitled persons), level/form of compensation and assistance offered, and
specific guidelines for calculating compensation are presented in the
compensation and resettlement policy in the RAP (the policy matrix is included
as Table 2). The policy commitments and institutional arrangements reflected
in the matrix will be translated into Bangla and distributed to the affected
people during joint verification.
12.       An important feature of the policy pertains to the procedures for
valuing land to be acquired. GOB has appointed a special Land Valuation
Advisory Team with the mandate to recommend to the DC valuation standards for
land in the particular project area, based on a survey of the land market in



- 127 -
ANNEX 3.12
Page 4 of 11
the area. The objective is to ensure that the total compensation paid by the
DC reflects the replacement cost of the land acquired. This will replace the
present method of calculating "market value" used by the District Land
Acquisition Office. A Land Valuation Advisory Team has been appointed for
each of the districts where land acquisition will take place, with an agreed
terms of reference. The members of each of the Teams are as follows:
(a) Resettlement Officer from RHD (for the resettlement office
concerned: Rajshahi, Natore or Saidpur), as convener;
(b) a representative of the DC for the district concerned;
(c) Area Manager for CCDB (for the resettlement office concerned:
Rajshahi, Natore or Saidpur); and
(d) an independent consultant (to be contracted by CCDB and to
participate in all Teams).
OrQanization
13.       The project will establish three Resettlement Offices, one each in
Rajshahi, Natore and Saidpur. For each of these offices, RHD has appointed a
subdivisional engineer (SDE) designated as Resettlement Officer in-charge,
with the support staff which accompanies the position of SDE. The appointment
will be for 24 months. The Additional Project Civil Works Director under the
project, located in Rajshahi, will serve as the Chief Resettlement Officer,
supervising the work of the three area Resettlement Officers and being the
overall coordinator for implementation of the RAP. Resettlement work is
expected to occupy at least half of his time for the first 15 months or so of
his assignment. Job descriptions for the positions were agreed during
negotiations.
14.       The DC will be responsible for effecting payment of compensation
for land, structures and trees. All other payments to entitled persons
following from the compensation and resettlement policy will be effected by
CCDB. Additionally, CCDB will assist the Resettlement Offices of RHD with:
(a) finalizing registration of all entitled persons and their
respective losses and entitlements, by participating as observer to
the joint verification with the DC's office and RHD;
(b) informing all project affected people about the resettlement policy
and their entitlements, including issuance of identification cards;
(c) giving special assistance in the relocation of squatter homesteads;
and
(d) developing a management information system with records of all
entitled persons, for daily administration and subsequent
monitoring of delivery of compensation and assistance.
CCDB has the provision for contracting up to 20 staff-months of technical
experts to assist in carrying out these tasks.



- 128 -
ANNEX 3.12
Page 5 of 11
Grievance Mechanisms
15.       In addition to the existing appeal procedures under the land
acquisition Ordinance, the project will establish its own grievance mechanism.
Grievance Redressal Committees have been appointed to work with the respective
Resettlement Offices in Rajehahi, Natore and Saidpur. These Committees will
hear individual grievances raised by people affected by land acquisition in
relation to the resettlement policy for the project. Where a grievance
concerns issues covered by the appeal procedures outlined in the 1982
Ordinance, the Committee will forward the case with its recommendations to the
DC. Where a grievance relates to project specific definitions of entitlements
and entitled persons, the Committee will be empowered to make a final
decision.  Terms of reference for the Committees have been agreed; composition
of the Committees is as follows:
(a) the respective Resettlement Officer of RHD, or his/her appointee;
(b) the respective Area Manager of CCDB. or his/her appointee; and
(c) a member of the Union Parishad in the Union where the complainant
is registered as entitled person.
Timina
16.       It has been agreed that bidding of the contracts for the Natore and
Saidpur bypasses will be deferred to 1995; contracts for the other
rehabilitation works are expected to be signed by October 1994. Contract
signature will be contingent on RHD's having legal possession of the land. To
meet this, the DCs of Rajshahi, Pabna and Rangpur must be in a position to
give RHD legal possession of the land in September 1994. As for physical
possession of the land (i.e., eviction of people as per the policy and handing
over to the respective contractors), it has been agreed to aim for this by
mid-1995.  The sites at Ghagot and Dasuria could possibly be handed over in
March 1995, if required by the contractors. For the other three sites, land
acquisition and resettlement will realistically take 12-15 months from the
DC's start of field verification. The key action steps and timeframe are
given in Table 3.
Budcret
17.       Table 4 gives the detailed budget estimate for land acquisition and
resettlement under the project. The area of land to be acquired is based on
the detailed design of the realigned road sections (except at Saidpur where
only a preliminary design has been done). Quantities for other property and
compensation/assistance requirements are based on CCDB's socio-economic
survey. Final numbers will only be known after joint verification and
completion of the market survey. Given uncertainty about land and structure
values, sizable contingencies have been included in the budget estimates for
these items (80% and 20%, respectively). Estimates for other items are
considered reasonable. Implementation assistance is based on the existing
contract with CCDB for RAP preparation and implementation, taking into
consideration the longer period for implementation than initially estimated
and requirements for continued assistance from technical experts.



- 129 -
Annex 3.12
Page 6 of 11
Table 1:   Number of Entitled Persons by Type of Loss and Proiect Site
_ _     _ -            Project Site
Loss Category              Rajdshahi-         Natore        Dasuria       Saidpur       Ghagot
Nawabganj         Bypass    Intersection       Bypass         River       Total
1.  Apicultr land                      376           131              18          141            37         703
(owned)
2.  Homestead and                       78           150              17            14             1        260
(incl. structures)
3.  Structures on land not              36           203              9             10            2         260
owned (squatters, uthulis)
4.  Access to agricultural land          85           23               5           32             7          152
(sharecropped, leased)
S.  Acces to agricultural land            5            2               1            4             -           12
(mortgaged in)
6.  Regular wage income                 184          330              11           28             7         560
7.  Tenant contract for any               3            -               4             1            -           8
structure
S.  Income from business/                7             14             15            10            3          49
industry operated on
acquired land
No. of households                      54'           566             42            175           41        1365
Hectares of land to be acquired        59.5          29.5            2.6          19.7           3.7       115.0
Source: Resettlment Action Plan (May 1994).
Note: Componts do not add to totals because of vedapping anwDg loss categories.



Table 2: Coawensatiork and Resettlement Policy
Tvme of Loss             Entitled Person          Entitlement                         lemlementation lssuestGuidelines                organizations Res0onsible
1. Agricultural land,   Legal owner of land,   i.   Replacement value of land,   a. Assessment of quality & quantity of               a. PC + Joint Verification
including             waterbodies &                 waterbodies & trees               land. waterbodies & trees by Joint              team
waterbodies,          trees/orchards at             according to quality and          Verification team (JVT).
trees/orchards,       the time of serving           quantity/size at the time                                                      b. DC + Lard Valuation
etc                   Section 3 notice              of joint verification.        b. Determination of replacement value/              Advisory team
according to title                                             market value of tand.
deed verified by        ii.  Stamp duty will be                                                             c. Land Acquisition office
Deputy                        exempted if purchase of       c. Title updating.                                  (LAO), Revenue office &
Comissioner's (DC)            land/waterbody is reported                                                        Sub-Registrar's office
office                       within 6 months of receipt   d. Payment of compensation for land and
of compensation.  The             trees will be made by DC on the basis       d! DC
exemption will be for up          of information provided by Joint
to the amout of land one         Verification Team.                           e. CCD8   ROHD
can buy using the
coopensation money.           e. PAPs to be fully informed about              f. CCOB
entitlement (i.e., information
iii. Crop Compensation for:            brochure) and assisted in obtaining it.
Single crop land              f. Payment of stamp duty and crop
Tk. 150/decimal                   cospensation will be made by CCDB8
Double crop land                  based on data provided by Joint
Tk. 200/decimal                   Verification Team.
Triple crop land
Tk. 250/decimal.
2. Homestead Land         Legal owner of land,   i.   Replacement value of            a. Assessment of quality & quantity of          a. DC + Joint Verification
with house or         structures and trees          homestead land.                   homestead land by Joint Verification            Team
other structures      at the time of                                                  Team
serving Section 3       ii.  Stamp duty will be                                                             b. DC + Land Valuation                   v
notice                       exempted if purchase of        b. Determination of replacement valuel              Advisory team
land is reported within 6        market value of land.
months of receipt of                                                          c. LAO, Revenue office &
compensation.  The            c. Title updlating.                                 Sub-Registrar's office
exemption will be for up
to the amount of tand one    d. Payment of compensation for land,             d. DC
can buy using the                 structures and trees it4t be made by DC
compensation money.               on the basis of information provided by    e, CCD8 + RHD
Joint Verification Team.
iii. Compensation for                                                               f. CCD8
structures. trees and         e. PAPs to be fully informed about their
fruits determined by JVT.        entitlement end assisted in obtaining        g. CCDB
In addition, the Entitled         it.
Person witl be allowed to
cut the trees and take all   f. Transfer allowance: Up front payment of
the salvageable materials         Tk.1000-3000 per family depending on
free of cos  without              size, on the basis of lk. 300 per
delaying the project work.        member within the limit.
iv.  Transfer allowance to each   g. Payment of stamp duty will be made by
household depending on the        CCDB.
family size.                                                                                              PI
v.   Transfer allowance for
com ercial structures                                                                                     J[I
would be fixed by JVT on                                                                                  o 
the basis of type of                                                                                      hF
structure and area,F



Type of Loss             Entitled Person        Entitlemenet                        lnlementation Issues/Guidelines               Organizations Resoonsible
3. Structures on         Head of the             i.   Caopensation for structure   a. Value of the structure determined by        a. CCD8
unauthorized or      household in these           determined by JVT.                JVT. Payment of coapensation by CCD8.
other's land         structures                                                                                                b. DC
(squatters &                                 ii.  Grant of a hamestead plot    b. Land to be provided by OC.
uthulis)                                          of 2.5 deciaul on Khas                                                       c. cco0
land or in a cluster         c. CCDB will help to purchase the land and
village.                         assist in relocation.                      d. CCDB
iii. If such land not             d. Transfer allowance and cash grant to be    e. CCOB
available: a cash grant          paid by CCDB.
equivalent to the value of
2.5 decimal of homestead     e. CCD8 survey will be considered as the
land in the area.               cut-off date.
iv. Transfer allouance: Up
front payent of Tk. 1000-
3000 per family depending
on the size, on the basis
of Tk. 300 per meaer
within the limit.
4. Agricultural land    Sharecropper or         i.   Crop coipesatlon for:         a. Cropping pattern and asout of land,         a. Joint Verification tean
for sharecropping    leaseholder at the                                            based on Joint Verification. Payment           + CODs
or leasing-in        time of survey on            Single crop land                 to be made by CCD8.
land acquired.              Tk. ISO/decimal                                                              b. t.38
Doihle crop land             b. Determiration of share of crop based on
Tk. 200/decimal                  CCDI surwvey.                              c. CCDO
Triple crop land
Tk. 250/decimat.             c. Information on tease contracts to be
based an CCD8 survey.                                                               W
ii.  Nust be shared between the
osear and sharecropper       d. CCD8 survey is cut-off-date.
according to their
agreement.
iii. In case of leasing-in,
repayment of the remaining
part of the contracted
money to the leasee be
enswred by CCD8.
5. Agricultural land    Nortgagor of             i.   Repayment of btalance of     a. Determination of mort8gae status.           a. CCD8
mortgaged-in          acquired land               mortgaged mney from owner
of land                      b. Cropping pettern and amount of land         b. CCrs
based on Joint Verification. Payment
ii.  Crop% coqaensation to            to be made by CCDO.
ortgagor for:
c. CCDB Survey Is cut-off date.
Singlo crop land
Tik. 150/decimal
Doubjle crop land
Tk. 200/decimal0
Triple crop land
Tk. 250/decimal.
:                                                   e,~~~~~~~~~~~~



Type of Loss              Entitled Person          Entitlement                          lamlementation issues/Guidelines                Organizations Responsible
6. Epltoyment/income    Persons whose              i. Compensation for the wages       a. Identification ot the Entitled Person         a. gCDB
regular p(ace of            for 120 days at Tk. 30 per          and his employer on the basis of the
work has been               day for unskilled and 7k. 80         CCDB survey.                                 b. CCGO
acquired, e.g.              per day for skilled workers.
worker in an                                                 b. Payment of compensation by CCD8.              c. ROD
acquired factory or    ii.  Preferential access to
long term                     construction work within       c. Negotiate agreements with contractors.
agricultural                  the project.
laborers in a                                                d. CCDB survey is cut-oft date.
farmer'S house which
Is acquired
7. Rented house or        Rent payer of house    i. Rent for 3 months in case of   a. Rent should be determined by JVt.                 a. JV7
comereiat             or comuercial               house  6 months ir. case of
structure             structure                   conuerciat structure atd          b. Payment to be effected by CCDO.               b. CCDB
factory.
c. CCDB survey is cut-off date.
8. Business or            Proprietor of            i. Displacement benefit             a. Assessment of loss.                           a. JVT
Industry from         business or industry        determined by JVT.
owned or rented       which i8 acquired                                             b. Payment to be effected by CCDB.               b. CCDB
presises
c. CCOe survey is cut-off date.
Mote: I decimal t   0.01 acre = 0.004 hectare.
0-0
ft1i



Table 3:  Timefra!M for Land Acauisition &ad Res*tticment
8993                                       994                                                             199S  _          _    _    _    _    6996
Acti90Skpa              Sep  Oct  NoDec b    PFb  Ma.  Apr Msy J.a  hi  A_   Sp  ocr  Nov Dcc la   Pb M                            Apt   May Ja  Jul  Au Sp  Ocl  Nov Dcc Jan  Pb |M
1. Appolcatl Of totla
acqueil_tlo    O :m;a
4. SCsev (by$ Seidji
S. Soctioas3 of RAu
6. App4olame f RAP
4. EstayblishRItP-W
9.  Pzpratka  f _At                        .!.4s.> S  4 j 
.   SSIiii RHO PI
S. SdeabU"a C9JWJ                                                                   ,  'i ;.
. Tnila   of suctdm  .c6
to. Jo  ,in  iM S                                                            ;           .
Ni. Pi lams: cm a
(bcochwahuimgstba
Rs^bUNtot;;                                                                                                                      ,.I
l2. bl>eAca miy lea                                                         .,;.' ... :. :,::::.:;p     D
3.  .qal powcelmof lAnd
by ROi
Htiaiowlidput
14.  vAm ID-cards mad raufles                                                                    .R. ~.
co.olticusocmcitofab~.
26. ldcatificatift Of load (ar
I?. Nola?latm of .vicdc
OassudsAtaagot
Rojba"IatorIsuisot
it. Rcsckatmo* at PaNa
p,Ovi4d with leil
19. Po.,icasioof land by
Ob.goUDamurio 
20. lAslatito of impact of
wesctIlotacO



Tab  4:    Stvsang Coat imaf PK Lad Ac.iu              Ad
(OboUM6 Takal
Leu Catquy                           Rajebabi-Nawabga,Uj        Hatom Rypeas           D _aui bhtnech             sadt By"P                 bgot River                 TOtWl
QtY       Vahe           Qay        Valve         Qu         Valu          Qy         Vle           Quay       Vae           Quay       Value
1. AdCUbodLan
Laid O)                            S7.30       MO0O5         21.12      15,683         2.15       1.173        19.53      7.289          3.62       1.399       103.72     43.569
TM" (9)                             1.04        1,501       16,872      23.712          334        116           59         446             -          -        1.18       25.P4
Crep                                           7.2W                     7.259                      562                     ,339                      296                   23,745
SuLall                                      26-935                   4724                      JJ: 51                  16.074                      6939
2. Room"a La
LAW   )                             2.20       1.S01          8.38     31.050          0.40        9            0.17        210          0.07         85         11.22     34,236
sbutuu (0)                           299       6.792           362      7,93             47       1.208           48       2,315            4         iS        760.00     19.213
Rcl_oaUo.Gua                                     S53                      724                       91                       93                        7                     1.468
TM* (0)                               12m      1.069         6,167       8.693        1.10         386           79         5"             n7         77                    10.616
94" sS -aI-                                                                                    2.673                   _3211646473
3. Stuetma an Uaaubmaae
ug_ueag.e49)                          77         s9            202       1.156            7         47             a         93             1       0.40           295       2.1S5
-uIo-m                                77         158          202         464             7         14             0         16             1          2          25          634
ao   bt e 9 wI      W                 36         360           203       2.030            9         90            10         1o0            2         20           260       2,60D
_Mla                                         J,f                      165 0                      151                      299                       22
4. AgkW_ellf a  9w
Lmia                                28.70      1.419          2.11        124          1.01         50         13.29        657          0.83         41         45.4        2.290
. Ap aa Lud
LMt   _                             0.52          26          0.12          6          0.O6          3          0.49         40             -          -          1.19         6I
Wo. Labua ra                         284        1.74           393       2.3s            12         72            36        228            11         66           736      4,429
7. lwdlinsaCincis                            3         is             -           -            4         24             3          is            -           -           10         60
SMVWA (4)
n. u_        biAVES                          7        210            17        530            16        430            12         MO             4         120           56       1.6,0
TOW                                         41.893                  101,732                    5.304                   20,.13                    2.129                  1713160
JmIsa,almAdiM    S                                                                                                                                                           32.002
1Crmia  U                                                                                                                                                                    76,796
Tol ei                                                                                                                                                                  200.658
athludue au~mem  inpimlas. lowboomeuat" eni                                                                                                                                                          1:4f
w  io  as51  laud 2051 ON   omail. 105 en anl ashore; M wb lu r a   w la O ad  imcue abe to ,meaaluh in valaaaUm of Mame.
U D %Zk%",IOSo COMMIM_, O 
dse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*



- 135 -
ANNEX 3.13
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT PROGRESS REPORTING REOUIREMENTS
Progress reports will be prepared by RED, with the supervisory consultant's
assistance. They will be submitted quarterly in triplicate no later than one
calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first report should cover
the quarter ending September 1994. The reports should contain the following
information:
1.        General Information
(a) physical progress accomplished during the reporting period in
respect of:
(i)  Rehabilitation/Widening Works
a. prequalification of contractors
b. invitation of bids
c. bid receipt and evaluation
d. contract award
e. preliminaries to mobilization
f. construction progress
(ii) Periodic Maintenance Program
a. prequalification of contractors
b. invitation of bids
c. bid receipt and evaluation
d. contract award
e. preliminaries to mobilization
f. construction progress
(iii) Technical Assistance
a. call for proposals
b. proposal receipt and evaluation
c. contract award
d. arrival date of staff
e. staff-months expended/planned
f. activities carried out during reporting period
(iv) Training
a. preparation of training program
b. selection of trainees
c. course(s) held with dates
d. numbers and categories of staff trained
e. status report on transfer of responsibilities from
consultant to RHD staff
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project implementation
schedule;



- 136 -
ANNEX 3_.13
Page 2 of 2
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effects on the
implementation schedule, and the steps taken or planned to overcome
the difficulties and avoid further delays;
(d) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(e)  key personnel changes in the staffs of the RHD, consultants or
contractors,
(f) matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic viability of
project components.
2.        A bar-tvye nroqress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress on each project component and schedule of
further works.
3.        A financial statement set out in a tabular form showing for each
project component:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;
(c) actual expenditure;
(d) projected expenditure; and
(e) actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit.
4.        Status renort on environmental monitorinQ being carried out
focusing on particular issues, if any, which have arisen.
5.        Status renort on land acauisition and resettlement including
progress in implementing resettlement action plan and effecting land
acquisition in line with construction schedule.
6.        Status of comoliance on each covenant of the Development Credit
Agreement.



- 137 -
ANNEX 3.14
PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.   Bank Input to Key Activities
The Bank staff input indicated below (57 staffweeks) is in addition to
regular supervision needs at Headquarters for handling correspondence
and reviewing/commenting on procurement actions, disbursement requests,
progress reports, annual audits, etc. (another 15 staffweeks). Other
specialists- may-also participate in supervision missions as required
(e.g., HDM, construction industry and institutional specialists for an
additional 8 staffweeks). Total staff input is estimated at 80
staffweeks over 5 years.
Supervision Input to Key Activities
Approximate                                                 Skills       Staff Input
Dates      Activity                                     Required       (staffweeks)
1.      08/94      Project Launch Workshop/start of project    TM, EC, PRO, TRG, RES  6
2.      12/94       Review progress of civil works, resettlement
and proposed work program                     TM, EC, RES        5
3.      04/95       Review progress of project implementation,
resettlement and RHD overall program          TM, EC, RES        5
4.      08/95       Review progress of inscitutional development
program and resettlement                      TM, TRG, RES       5
5.      12/95      Review progress of civil works and
proposed work program                              TM, EC        4
6.      04/96       Review progress of project implementation
and RHD overalt program                            TM, EC        4
7.      08/96       Mid-term review of all project components   TM, EC, TRG, ENV, RES  8
8.      12/96       Review proposed work program                       TM, EC        4
9.      06/97       Project supervision                                   TM         2
10.     12/97       Review proposed work program                       TM, EC        4
11.     06/98      Project supervision                                    TM         2
12.     12/98      Review proposed work program                        TM, EC        4
13.     06/99      Project supervision and start of ICR preparation    TM, EC        4
TM = Task Manager/Transport Engineer            EC = Transport Economist
RES = Resettlement Specialist                   ENV = Environmental Specialist
PRO a Procurement Specialist                    TRG - Training Specialist
2.   Borrower' s Contribution to Supervision
RHD will be responsible for project implementation and monitoring and
for coordination among concerned agencies and with donors. More
specifically, RHD's functions will involve: (a) initial review,
recording and forwarding of all procurement orders, disbursement
requests and special accounts expenditures/reimbursements; (b)
preparation of annual project implementation budget; (c) preparation of
bidding and other project contract documents; (d) preparation of monthly
financial statements; (e) preparation and submission of monthly and
quarterly progress reports; (f) preparation of annual project accounts;
(g) arranging for annual audits of project accounts; and (h)
coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision missions and providing
required information for the missions.



- 13X -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 28
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        The Road Master Plan study was completed in 1992, providing RED
with an objective and efficient basis for planning and prioritizing future
investment and maintenance activities for its 13,700 km road network. A
primary objective of the proposed project is to assist RHD to initiate
implementation of the RMP, particularly the intensive program of periodic
maintenance, to preserve the existina network. The RMP was prepared using the
Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model/Version Three for
Personal Computers, by a team of consultants working with RHD under a JNDP-
funded, ADB-executed project (IDA was closely involved in the study, although
not as executing agency because of potential conflict of interest {RMP study
was a project component under RRMP-I1). Under the RMP study, the HDM was
modified slightly to take into consideration congestion conditions in the
Bangladesh road network; moreover, special issues such as earth roads with low
traffic, a road widening program, and bridge repair and construction were
analyzed exogenously.
2.        The RMP work provided the main basis for the economic evaluation of
the proposed project. With the assistance of RHD and the international
consultants who prepared the RMP study, the appraisal mission updated the HDM
analysis (using the 1990 RMP data base) in order to define the framework
(magnitude, in Taka and kilometers, and type of works) of a 4-year periodic
maintenance program for areas west of the Jamuna. A first year program of 417
km was then selected from this program, and the consultants assisting RHD with
preparation of the other project components (Louis Berger International, Inc./
Sarm Associates, Ltd.) carried out detailed preparation on a road-by-road
basis. Following a 1-year delay in the start of the project to FY95, due to
time needed for RHD/GOB to prepare the land acquisition and resettlement plan
for the rehabilitation component, Bank staff updated in April 1994 the
economic analysis of the first year maintenance program and rehabilitation
works using updated/actual road conditions, traffic and costs. Since the HDM
analysis discussed in Sections A and B below was used to define the overall
framework for the periodic maintenance program and not the detailed annual
work programs, and a 1-year delay would only lead to a higher rate of return,
it was not considered necessary to update the analysis; hence, the starting
date for the analysis is FY94, whereas the program will actually start in
FY95. The economic analysis carried out during project preparation is
summarized below and in the attached tables; further details on the HDM
analysis and the consultants' reports are in the project file. Work programs
for future years of the project will be developed annually based on updated
field data and HDM analyses.
A. HDM Computer Analysis of RMP Data V
3.        The HDM estimates life-cycle costs of different road design and
maintenance options, including different time-staging strategies, for a given
road project on a specific alignment or for groups or links of an entire road
network. It estimates the totai costs for a large number of alternative
maintenance policies on a year-by-year basis and can therefore be used to
/  The Hon analysis under the RMP is set up for 20 years (FY92-11), but at the time of doing the update
(January 1993), the first two years (FY92-93) had already passed. The updating carried out by the
appraisal mission used the HDY to determine the actual conditfon of the netuork in FY93 (subJect to
field confirmation durino final enrineerinal. Hence the full nroaram in cnLv 18 vears CFY94-11).



- 13q -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 28
search for the alternative with the highest net present value at given
discount rates or the highest internal rate of return. The objective is to
search out that combination of maintenance policies which results in the
minimum total life-cycle costs, including costs borne by road users and the
road authority. Vehicle speeds and operating costs and road deterioration and
maintenance costs are estimated by the model as a function of the road design
and maintenance standards, traffic volume and axle loads, and environmental
conditions.  Maintenance and vehicle operating costs are first estimated in
physical quantities; prices and unit costs, as specified by the user, are then
applied to determine the total financial, economic and foreign exchange costs.
4.        The network analyzed in detail under the RMP using the HDM consists
of 6,442 km of the most heavily trafficked roads in RHD's network (Table 1.1).
For the present exercise, the country was divided into two regions (west and
east of the Jamuna). Tle network of the western region, for which works will
be partially financed by IDA under RRMP-II, was further divided into narrow
(up to 4 m) and wide (wider than 4 m} roads 21 to take into consideration
different maintenance technologies for different width roads (matrices A and
B); the network of the eastern region, for which works will be partially
financed by ADB under the Road Overlay and Improvement Project, contains all
RHD roads surveyed in the region (matrix C). Table 1.2 gives the length in
kilometers for each link in each matrix. The three matrices were then divided
into subgroups on the basis of levels of traffic (1 to 5) and pavement
condition (good, Fair, Poor). The cells in each matrix are identified as
"links"l. Link identification codes for each matrix are given in Table 2.
5.        The input data for the analysis were obtained from measurements in
the field and are contained in the Road Master Plan data files prepared by the
RMP consultant and to be updated regularly by RHD.  Basic cost inputs for the
RMP were obtained from field data and theoretical cost analysis. For paved
roads, this included unit costs for routine maintenance, pothole patching,
seal coats, surface dressings, asphalt concrete overlays (6 cm on average) and
typical rehabilitation works (Table 3). Basically the same data (at 1990
prices) were used in the original RMP and in the Bank's re-evaluation as they
were the best available data and were internally co-sistent with other cost
data (e.g., vehicle and road user costs).
6.        Table 4 of this annex gives a set of 12 maintenance standards for
good, fair and poor pavenent conditions. The set for the roads in good
condition (international roughness index, IRI, less than 4) includes (a) a 6
cm overlay between years 4 and 9 or resealing between years 1 and 6 as the
first intervention and (b) a future 6 cm overlay when the roughness reaches
6.5 IRI. The set for roads in fair (IRI between 4 and 6.5) and poor (IRI
greater than 6.5) condition includes (a) a 6 cm overlay between years 1 and 6
or rehabilitation between years 1 and 6 as a first intervention and (b) a
future 6 cm overlay when the roughness reaches 6.5 IRI. All alternatives
assume and provide for routine maintenance and patching. The base case
consists of basic routine maintenance and rehabilitation/reconstruction at a
high level of roughness (IRI = 11.5).
g/ The RMP groups roads according to width in ' 4 m, 4-6 m and > 6 m categories; the KOM analysis was
done accordingly, for up to 4 m and wider than 4 m roads. In defining the periodic maintenance
program (narro/wlide roads) under RRNP-II, the roads were divided at 5 m which corresponds to the
distinction between single and 2-lane roads. In fact, it makes Little difference in the results
because few roads are within the range of 4-5 m.



- 140 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 28
7.        Four vehicle categories, ranging from car to truck, were used to
represent traffic composition in the analysis (Table 5). Under the RMP,
detailed iinformation, including fuel type, gross vehicle weight, payload,
equivalent number of axles, normal vehicle service life, hours and kilometers
driven per year, and average number of passengers per vehicle, was developed
for each category. Similarly, economic unit costs of vehicles and their
maintenance and operation were developed. The present exercise used these
same data and the HDM vehicle operating costs submodel for their analysis.
Traffic volumes in terms of average daily traffic (ADT), ranging from 150 to
1,500 vehicles in the west (12,700 maximum in the east), for all links and
vehicle types, were obtained from the RMP data (Tables 6.1 and 6.2). The
annual traffic growth rates used range from 6.5% to 9.0% in the first 10 years
and are 0.5 percentage points lower for the last 10 years. The existing link
characteristics, as weighted average values, are summarized in Table 7.
8.        The maintenance alternatives were evaluated for each link on the
basis of (a) the net present value of each alternative, when compared with the
base case at a discount rate of 12%, ard (b) the economic internal rate of
return. Without budgetary constraints, the optimal policy on each link is the
one that maximizes the NPV of the whole program. (The discount rate of 12%
represents the opportunity cost of capital in Bangladesh; a higher discount
rate would change the optimum policies toward less capital-intensive
alternatives.) Tables 8.1 to 8.3 summarize the economic indicators for all
links and maintenance standards, including agency cost, total economic cost,
NPV, EIRR and NPV/investment ratio, for the western region. The optimal
maintenance st,ndards, selected on the basis of the NPV, are underlired in the
tables, which are divided for links in good condition (Table 8.1), narrow
links in fai' and poor condition (Table 8.2) and wide links in fair and poor
condition (- ble 8.3). Table 9 shows that the optimal solution without
budgetary cc-nstraints requires a financial outlay of Tk 11.4 billion over the
20-year period of the program, with an NPV of Tk 9.3 billion, an EIRR of about
lOOt and an NPV/investment ratio of 1.9. However, the table also shows a very
unequal distribution of the program between the FY94-97 and FY98-01 periods.
To spread the expenditures (and works) more evenly, the Expenditure Budgeting
Model (EBM) was applied as described below.
B. Expenditure Budgeting Model Alrplied to RMP Data
9.        The Bank's EBM uses mathematical programming to evaluate the trade-
offs between competing alternatives to maximize the objective NPV function,
against the resource constraint and budgetary provision for distinct periods
of time. The application of EBM in conjunction with the HDM exercise shows
that the FY94-97 program for the western region could be reduced from Tk 3.9
billion to Tk 2.9 billion at minimal cost, postponing Tk 1 billion of outlays
to the next period (Table 10). The NPV penalty for the overall 20-year
program is only Tk 71 million (less than US$ 2 million). Table 10 shows the
new series of selected maintenance standards and expenditures for all links in
the western region after application of the EBM. Because the higher priority
maintenance works are done first (i.e., the lower priority ones are deferred
due to budgetary constraints), the EIRR and NPV/investment ratio increase to
over 100% and 2.0, respectively.
10.       Table 11 shows the selected physical works program for the adopted
maintenance alternatives for the proposed project over FY94-97 and for the
full program FY94-ll. The mainstay of the FY94-97 program is 1,897 km of
asphalt concrete overlays (6 cm on average) on RHD's paved road network in the



ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 28
west. Only 4 km of roads were selected for resealing in the first four years.
Table 12 lists all roads on which intervention is to take place during PY94-
97. This list was used as the basis for selecting the actual work program for
the first year of the project, which while concentrating on the roads in the
poorest condition with the highest traffic levels, also conisidered other
programming requirements such as practicality of bidding and execution. Based
on the RMP's findings vis-a-vis the need for widening narrow roads in
Bangladesh (para. 13 below), it was decided to include in RRMP-II about 1,800
km of the identified program as periodic maintenance, mainly asphalt concrete
overlays and some resealing, over FY94-97 (now FY95-98), and the remaining lo
km as combined widening and strengthening of narrow roads over FY96-97 (now
FY97-98).
C. Road-by-Road Analysis and Final Enqineerinc
11.       After identifying the optimal 20-year program for western
Bangladesh with the HDM model and selecting a balanced 4-year program with the
EBM, a first year work program was identified for final engineering and
economic evaluation road-by-road. The preparatory consultants with the
assistance of RHD have completed the road-by-road preparation of the first
year maintenance program, including field condition and traffic surveys,
detailed designs, cost estimates, economic evaluations, final bills of
quantities and bid documents. The program comprises asphalt concrete overlays
on about (a) 265 km of roads with a riding surface of 5 m or more (2 lanes),
on which overlays will be laid with a mechanical paver; and (b) 152 km of
roads with a riding surface less than 5 m, on which overlays will be laid
manually (using pre-mixed asphalt from an asphalt plant), as it is not
possible to lay the narrow strip satisfactorily with a mechanical paver. Bank
staff updated the economic analysis of the first year program in April 1994
using actual road condition and traffic data provided by the consultants,
actual bid prices, RMP cost data updated to January 1994 prices, and start of
wiorks in the 1994-95 dry season; the base case was the same as in the overall
HDM analysis (i.e., routine maintenance until the IRI reaches 11.5 at which
point the road would be rehabilitated/reconstr cted). The EIRR for the first
year maintenance program is about 45%, ranging from 24% to 92% for the more
heavily trafficked wide roads and from 17% to 39% for the narrow roads. While
this is lower than the EIRR calculated above for purposes of defining the
maintenance framework, in part because the investment costs include
preparatory works which would be common among maintenance options, it is more
reliable as it is based on detailed analysis of specific road sections and is
about as expected for periodic maintenance works. Summary results are in
Table 13, and details in the project file. The first year bid prices were
used as a basis for finalizing the cost estimate for the 4-year program and
first year EIRRs for estimating the EIRR for the maintenance component.
Because thera is a greater proportion of narrow roads in the outer years, the
EIRR for the 4-year program is estimated to be 34*. Maintenance work programs
for the remaining three years of the project will be developed in a similar
manner with the assistance of the supervisory consultant under the project
based on updated field data and HDM analyses.
12.       Preparation of the 168 km of rehabilitation works under the
proposed project dates back to the preparation of RRMP-I when a 3-phase
program of rehabilitation works in the northwest was identified. As discussed
in Chapter II, the RMP calls for a continuing program of 70-100 km of high
priority rehabilitation works per year over the medium term to bring the road
sections to maintainable condition. The road sections proposed for



- 142 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 28
rehabilitation under the project are the priority sections in the west
identified under the RMP for the project period, and they will complete
rehabilitation of the main road network in the northwest. The economic
feasibility of the proposed rehabilitation component was evaluated by the
consultants assisting RHD in project preparation, using the HDM based on field
data and, where appropriate, the basic parameters used in the RMP. Final
engineering, including final bills of quantities and bid documents, have also
now been completed.  Bank staff updated the consultant's analysis in April
1994 taking into consideration the higher land acquisition and resettlement
costs for the new right-of-way, bids for the maintenance works, delayed start
of the bypasses to the 1995-96 dry season, decision to follow the northern
(rather than southern) alignment for the Saidpur bypass, and other relevant
information. In the case of the bypasses at Natore and Saidpur, both busy
urban areas, bhiefits to traffic remaining on the existing road (including
non-motorized traffic) were taken into consideration in the analysis, as well
as higher running costs for vehicles in highly congested conditions. A
further benefit of the bypasses which has not been quantified is the improved
safety and living conditions in the areas being bypassed. The EIRRs for the
four road sections and two bypasses range from about 16% to 28%; the weighted
average of the EIRRs is 22%. Summary results are in Table 14; details are in
the project file.
13.       Under a separate study, the RMP identified the need for widening
some 15% (1,500-2,000 km) of RHD's road network less than 6 m by 2000, with
the bulk of the works to be done in the latter part of this period. The EIRR
for widening roads with traffic above 400 vehicles per day was found to be in
the range of 15%-40%. Given the extent of narrow roads in the periodic
maintenance program analyzed for the proposed project, it was decided that
RRMP-II should help RHD to initiate this widening program in the outer years
of the project. This will be subject to re-analysis during preparation of the
FY96 program and final engineering, which will be carried out by RHD with the
assistance of the supervisory consultant during the second year of the
project. It is expected that the Bank's HDM-Q, which has been designed to
take congestion into consideration in its analysis of the network, will be
used in the preparation of this project component.
D. Topics for Further Analysis
14.       One issue which should be addressed in the course of preparing the
second year maintenance program under the proposed project is a difference in
the optimal maintenance strategies between the original RMP and the
preparatory work done for RRMP-II. The main difference is for roads with
between 100 and 1000 vehicles per day where: (a) the RMP strategy calls for
resealing every 4-6 years and overlaying once the IRI reaches 10; and (b) the
RRMP-II strategy, for roads in fair or poor condition (IRI greater than 4 or
6.5, respectively), calls for overlaying within the first 6 years followed by
further overlays when the IRI reaches 6.5. The base case strategy is the same
for both, routine maintenance until the IRI reaches 11.5 at which point the
road would be rehabilitated/reconstructed.



- 143 -
ANBX 4.1
Page 6 of 28
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.1   RHD Paved Road Network
Table 1.2   Analyzed Paved Road Network by Region
Matrix A: Western Region, narrow roads (up to 4 m}
Matrix B: Western Region, wide roads (wider than 4 m)
Matrix C: Eastern Region, all roads
Table 2     LINK Identification Codes for Paved Roads
Matrix A: Western Region, narrow roads (up to 4 m)
Matrix B: Western Region, wide roads (wider than 4 m)
Matrix C: Eastern Region, all roads
Table 3     Unit Cost of Maintenance Operations
Table 4     Maintenance Standards on Paved Roads
Table 5     Economic Unit Costs and Vehicle Fleet Characteristics Data
Table 6.1   Average Daily Traffic in 1990 and Annual Growth Rate of
Traffic on Paved Roads
Matrix A: Western Region, narrow roads (up to 4 m)
matrix B: Western Region, wide roads (wider than 4 m)
Table 6.2   Average Daily Traffic in 1990 and Annual Growth Rate of
Traffic on Paved Roads
Matrix C: eastern Region, all roads
Table 7     Weighted Average Values of LINK Characteristics
Table 8.1   Economic Indicators and Maintenance Standards
LINKS in Good Condition/All Roads (Western Region)
Table 8.2   Economic Indicators and Maintenance Standards
LINKS in Fair and Poor Condition/Narrow Roads (Western Region)
Table 8.3   Economic Indicators and Maintenance Standards
LINKS in Fair and Poor Condition/Wide Roads (Western Region)
Table 9     Optimal Maintenance Standards and Expenditures,  Without Budget
Constraints, FY1994-2011 by Period, Western Region
Table 10    Selected  Maintenance  Standards  and  Expenditures,  With  Budget
Constraints, FY1994-2011 by Period, Western Region
Table 11    Selected Maintenance Standards and Physical Works, FY1994-2011 by
Period, Western Region
Table 12    Proposed Paved Roads Program, FY94-97, by Road,' Western Region
Table 13    First Year Periodic Maintenance Program: Summary Economic Evaluation
Table 14    Rehabilitation Component: Summary 8conomic Evaluation



- 144 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 7 of 28
Table 1.1:         RHD Paved Road Network a/
(Length in kilometers, 1990)
ADT Range                  Gocod         Pair           Poor         Total
c  300                  37         1,071         1,412          2,519
300  - 1000                  204           944         1,111          2,259
1000  - 3000                  722           409            190         1,321
3000  - 6000                   77           219             25           322
> 6000                  --             11            11             22
Grand Total         L1.04         2a.6S3        2748           6.442
169           41%           43%           100%
Source: Road Master Plan data fites.
M/ Includes only those roads analyzed with the HDM4; does not include Herring
Bone Brick roads.



- 145 -
ANNEX 41
Page 8 of 28
Table 1.2:      Analyzed Paved Road Network by Region
(Length in kilometers, 1990)
Matrix A: Western Region, narrow roads (up to 4 m) a/
ADT Range                      Good           Fair          Poor          Total
<  300                      3.5         664.0         695.5       1,363.0
300  - 1000                     25.0         232.5          286.5         544.0
1000  - 3000                        --           1.0                          1.0
Subtotal                   28.5         897.5         982.0       1,908.0
Matrix B:  Western Region, wide roads (wider than 4 m})  /
ADT Range                       Good          Fair          Poor          Total
<  300                       --         109.5          84.5          194.0
300  - 1000                     86.0         323.5          149.0         558.5
1000  - 3000                    641.0          124.0          21.5         786.5
Subtotal                 727.0          557.0         255.0       1,539.0
Subtotal                 755.5        1.454.S      _1237.0        3.447.0
(A+B matrix)
Matrix C: Eastern Region, all roads
ADT Range                      Good           Fair          Poor          Total
c  300                    33.5          297.0         631.5          962.0
300  - 1000                     93.0         388.0          675.0       1,156.0
1000  - 3000                     81.0          283.5         168.5         533.0
3000  - 6000                     77.5          219.0          25.0         321.5
> 6000                       --          11.0          11.0           22.0
Subtotal                 285.0       1,198.5        1,511.0       2,994.5
Grand Total            1.040.5        2.653.0       2.748.0       6.441.5
(A+B+C matrix)
Source: Road Master Plan data files.
j,  The HDM analysis was done with roads up to 4 m and wider than 4 m; the first year work program under the
project uses a classification of less than 5 m and 5 m or more which reflect, respectively, single-lane
and two-lane roads. In fact, it makes little difference in the results because few roads are within the
range of 4-5 m.



- 146 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 9 of 28
Table 2: LINK Identification Codes for Paved Roads
Matrix A: Western Region, narrow roads (up to 4 m)
ADT Range       Level                   Good          Fair           Poor
<  300       (1)                   A1G            A1F            AIP
300  - 1000        (2)                    A2G           A2F            A2P
1000  - 3000        (3)                    A3G           A3F            A3P
Matrix B: Western Region, wide roads (wider than 4 m)
ADT Range       Level                   Good          Fair           Poor
<  300       (1)                   BIG            BlF            BlP
300   - 1000       (2)                    B2G           B2F            B2P
1000     3000       (3)                    B3G           B3F            B3P
Matrix C: Eastern Region, all roads
ADT Range       Level                   Good          Fair           Poor
<  300       (1)                    CIG           CiF            CiP
300  - 1000        (2)                    C2G           C2F            C2P
1000   - 3000       (3)                    C3G           C3F            C3P
3000  - 6000        (4)                    C4G           C4F            C4P
> 6000       (5)                   C5G            C5F            C5P
Note:  For LINK identification, the tetters (A,S or C) irdicate the region and/or width of
roads (matrix), the arabic numerat indicates the level of traffic (1,2,3,4.5) and the
third letter (G,F,P) the pavement condition according to the roughness level (Good IRI
< 4, Fair IRI between 4 and 6.5 IRI, and Poor IRI > 6.5).
IRI=tnternational Roughness Index.



- 147 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 10 of 28
Table 3: Unit Cost of Maintenance Operations
(1990 prices)
Maintenance Operation             Unit           Cost in Taka        Cost in US$ a/
Financial Economic    Financial
Paved Roads
Patching                           m2            165         140          4.77
Slurry Seal                        m2            S5           43          1.45
Single Surface Treatment           m2            120         101          3.47
Double Surface Treatment           M2            280         236          8.09
Reseal (used in HDM run)k/         m2             80          68          2.31
Overlay 6 cm (manual)   2I         M2            298         253          8.61
Overlay 6 cm (automated)d/         m2            395         335         11.42
Rehabilitation                     m2          1,185       1,007         34.25
Routine Maintenance              km/year    18,500        15,725        534.68
Unoaved Roads
Grading                            km         84,000      71,400       2427.75
Spot Regraveling                   m3          1,000         850         28.90
Gravel Resurfacing                 m3          1,000         850         28.90
Routine Maintenance              km/year       3,300       2,805         95.38
Source: Road Master Plan data files and Bank staff estimates.
a USS I = Tk 34.6
A mean cost value was used for reseals in the HDi simulation (slurry seal and surface dressing).
LI Applied manually on narrow roads (up to 4 m), with initial condition IRI = 4.3.
St  Applied with automated paver on wide roads (wider than 4 m), with initial condition IRI = 3.5.



- 148 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 11 of 28
Table 4: Maintenance Standards on Paved Roads
Maintenance
Standards              First Intervention               Future Intervention
Code
BASE                   Routine Maintenance              Routine Maintenance
Rehabilitation at 11.5 IRI
Good Condition
06Y4                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 4           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y5                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 5           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y6                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 6           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y7                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 7           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y8                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 8           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y9                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 9           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
SEYl                   Reseal in Year I                 Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
SBY2                   Reseal in Year 2                 Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
SEY3                   Reseal in Year 3                 Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
SEY4                   Reseal in Year 4                 Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
SEYS                   Reseal in Year S                 Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
SEY6                   Reseal in Year 6                 Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
Fair and Poor Condition
06Yl                   Overlay 6 cm in Year I           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y2                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 2           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y3                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 3           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y4                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 4           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y5                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 5           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
06Y6                   Overlay 6 cm in Year 6           Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
RCYl                   Rehabilitation in Year I         Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
RCY2                   Rehabilitation in Year 2         Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
RCY3                   Rehabilitation in Year 3         Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
RCY4                   Rehabilitation in Year 4         Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
RCY5                   Rehabilitation in Year 5         Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
RCY6                   Rehabilitation in Year 6         Overlay 6 cm at 6.5 IRI
Note:  ALl reseals in HDM simulation were considered as US$ 2.31 per .2 (mean cost value of slurry seal and
surface dressing).
On narrow roads (up to 4 m), a manual overlay with initial condition IRI = 4.3, was used.
On wide roads (wider than 4 m), an overlay with automated paver with initial condition IRI = 3.5, was
used.
Rehabilitation with an asphalt concrete Layer of 6 cm over a granular base with initial condition
structural maber = 4.5 and IRI a 3.5, was used.



- 149 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 12 of 28
Table 5: Economic Unit Costs and Vehicle Fleet Characteristics Data
Economic Costs (1990 Taka)
Item                        Unit        Car     Pick-Up         Bus        Truck
Van
Vehicle                  Tk/Unit   270,000      446,000     810,000      670,000
Tire                     Tk/Tire     1,100        1,400       3,700        4,100
Maint.Labor                Tk/Hr         38          38          38           38
Crew                       Tk/Hr         16          16          36           29
Time                       Tk/Hr         20          15           6            8
Overhead                      Tk    14,000       14,000      89,000       52,000
Interest                     (%)        12           12          12           12
Petrol                     Tk/Lt        8.5         8.5          --           --
Diesel Fuel                Tk/Lt         --          --         8.2          8.2
Engine Oil                 Tk/Lt         41          41          41           41
vehicle Characteristics
Item                        Unit        Car     Pick-Up         Bus        Truck
Van
Vehicle Type (Brazil)                     1           4            5           8
Number of Tires                           4           4           6            6
Gross Vehicle Weight   (in ton)         1.1         2.1         9.2         10.4
Equivalent Axles        (Exp. 4)          0           0         0.5          1.1
Number of Vehicle Axles                   2           2           2            2
Payload                 (in ton)          0           0           0            5
Desired Speed Paved      (km/hr)         90          80          70           70
Desired Speed Unpaved   (km/hr)          80          70          60           60
Depreciation code                         1           1           1            1
Utilization code                          3           3           3            3
Km Driven per Year          (km)    20,000       44,000      70,000       50,000
Vehicle Life             (years)         10           8            8          10
Hours Driven per Year   (hours)         500       1,100       1,750        1,250
Number of Passengers                      3           4          49            3
Source: Road Master Plan data files.



- 150 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 13 of 28
Table 6.1: AveraQe Daily Traffic (ADT) in 1990 and Annual Growth Rate
of Traffic on Paved Roads
Matrix A: Western Region, narrow roads (up to 4 m)
ADT Range       LINK        Length    Car  Pick-up   Bus    Truck Total
Code         (km}             Van
<  300      A1F        664.0      10       20      61      64      155
<  300      AIG          3.5      10       10     100      30      iSo
<  300      AlP        695.5      10       24      69      51      155
300  - 1000      A2F        232.5       29      61     187      170     447
300  - 1000      A2G         25.0       20     100     300      300     720
300  - 1000      A2P        286.5      41       55     199      234     529
1000 - 3000      A3F          1.0     140       80     410      370   1,000
Matrix B: Western Region, wide roads (wider than 4 m)
ADT Range       LINK        Length    Car  Pick-up   Bus    Truck Total
Code        (km)              Van
<  300      BlF        109.5      33       40     102      68      242
<  300      BIP         84.5       4       17      73      60      155
300  - 1000      B2F        323.5      41       76     212      287     615
300  - 1000      B2G         86.0      40       84     307      342     773
300  - 1000      B2P        149.0       56      75     171      257     559
1000 - 3000      B3F        124.0       80     107     386      567   1,139
1000 - 3000      B3G        641.0     105       97     452      812   1,465
1000 - 3000      B3P         21.5       88     103     380      676   1,247
Annual Growth Rate (-)
Year      Car  Pick-up   Bus    Truck
Van
Starting                1991     9.0      9.0     6.5     7.0
Starting                2001     8.5      8.5     6.0     6.5
Source: Road Master PLan data fiLes.



- 151 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 14 of 28
Table 6.2: Average Daily Traffic (ADT) in 1990 and Annual Growth Rate
of Traffic on Paved Roads
matrix C: Eastern Region, all roads
ADT Range       LINK        Length    Car  Pick-up   Bus    Truck Total
Code        (km)              Van
<  300      CiF        297.0      13       26      78      71      188
<  300      CIG         33.5      20       10      30     110      170
<  300      CiP        631.5      19       28      80      68      196
300  - 1000       C2F       388.0       70      71     187      239     566
300  - 1000       C2G        93.0       90      20     260      280     650
300  - 1000       C2P       675.0       77      64     212      251     604
1000 - 3000       C3F       283.5      171      90     540      592   1,392
1000 - 3000       C3G        81.0      173      75     592      466   1,306
1000 - 3000       C3P       168.5     154       79     502      630   1,366
3000 - 6000       C4F       219.0      358     200   1,148   2,153   3,859
3000 - 6000       C4G        77.5     255       85     901   2,290   3,532
3000 - 6000       C4P        25.0     472      317   1,323   2,212   4,324
> 6000      C5F         11.0   4,000   3,000   2,900   2,800  12,700
> 6000      C5P         11.0   1,480   1,480   1,390   1,650   6,000
Annual Growth Rate (%)
Year      Car  Pick-up   Bus    Truck
Van
Starting                1991     9.0      9.0     6.5     7.0
Starting                2001     8.5      8.5     6.0     6.5
Source: Road Master Plan data files.



-152-                                                          AMINEX 4.1
Page IS of 28
i |    i'-  -    -   -  -   -'  Vt             C* 0  . .   .        4                                     -i  4   -   - 4,              -
-            - -         - -       -       0 -                               - -   -
~  J 3    4'  0   4,  4'  0   V   0    V                 0      0 .     0 .       0  4   0   0   -        0 __  4         0   0
l~ ~ 3 J                           -0 ore       o O    00    @ v o40    - o0 00                                             0          4,^o "oa^    
s ~~  ~                       a _  _4'    2,4    04 2      4     00 204^_'                             00-          04 30               0 'e              
; ~      ~        0    .     =     E           - 1i        n                        -    -   - o-               
S ~I    N    2    e                 e                                                                                                       e  __   4 e=  
I     E4    4' .4   ,4 ,                             '   ,  41 o,    4'   -   4'  -   -   44  -   4'  4'    - 4'  e, 4,  o'  4 
-   Zn       *   0   *   4,,4    vi   vi o         -    F   4-O         a qw   w   0   .4o                         q0F
0   I           = =44              00 e'  d==*n o' o   oV o'~ o' o' o                              q'd o oo .o o oo  q    0,4 ' g0,4' 0~   W   
1 I      4, q'   ,  4,   '  4'  O.         V4   i  4,  4 O.,  0.  Vi   O, qi  4   O.,    q n          j   q0 O, 4'    O, O, O, 0    0
S   s  2 <                                  NS |2~                                                                                      -    "|g||gas8B                



Table 8.1   1EconoiC Indicators and M_iteme Sbtndards
LINKS in Good    iIasLAl Roads (Westen Region)
(1990 prces)
L3NK2  AIG          WDC4VLOWIGD                    MG          WHOMOWW                        MG           WDR44LOWM100                  3            WB>41ME         D
b.    cam "n               NPV     Nam "VI               com           NP            NWi           Cog.n3    NW   133  mWi                    Cadog          NPV  M3  NPV
Mm      As         5=.   .n         s      34.   Alm          sac.   on         S     WV.   Ab            E.       1n      s     WV.   A cy s    cv.   nU                   lisYv.
ge       Tdia      TOM                               Tdul    TOW3                               TOW       Toald                             TOW      Toa
12%      12%                               12%       12%                              12%       12%                               12%      12%
MSw      13J9       3B.6                             58.39    893.0                            221.42    3.319                            231413    44.146
0614      3.61      33.7    6.9   46        1.9      22.s    s36.    313   AMA          IA     t5226      3,194    125 MAW         0.8   1.380.0   42.33    3.835    42A  I.3
065      3.        3S       Gs   NONE      2.       20.82  *60.1   32.9  MA"           1.6    140.1    3,1S7    132   M           0.9   1.243.9   42.29   1,87       5.3      L.5
O6        2.99      31.9    6.7  NONE       2.2      19.00    8I9.    34.1 MANY         IS     126.92     3.179    139 MANY        1.1 1,149.1      42193 1,953    74.7    1.7
06Y7      273       32.0    6.  MANY        24       1738      5.6   34.2 MAY           2.0    117.34     3.172    147 MA1Y        1.3    ,036.t    42.31   3.915  MAY         1.8 1
O0m       2.49      32.1    6.5  MANY       2.6      1632    39.4   33.6  MWY           2.1    106.22     1.172    147 MANY        IA      936.5   42.378   1,768  MANY        1.9                                     .
OSY9      2.31      32.2    *.4  MANY       28       14.98    662.    30.2  MANY        2.0    7W.33      3.1355     3 MNY         2.1     846.9   42Z683   1,463  tMY         1.?
J8Wi      3.66      31.2    7.4 MANY         2.0     16.22    86.2   36.7 MANY          2.3     94.62     3.315    164 MAN         1.7     863.8   4XlC9   2,037 MAY           2.4
332       3.41      3M.      7.5  MA         2.2     14.90    854.7   38.2  MANY        2.6     91.17    3.149    170 MANY         1.9      782.2   42.47   2,09      5.3    2.7
se        3.37      31.3    7.3  MAY         2.2      3.72    833      39.2  MANY       2.9     82.84     3.145    374 MANY        2.3      709.2   42027   2,119    70.       3.0
S334      333       33.6    7.0 MAWY        2.1       3."     853.7      .3  MANY       2.8     80.09     3,142    177    63.9    2.2       732.7    4014   2,132    89.0    2.9
37        3.9       31J      6*  MAY        2.2      3      3.65   i53A  39.2 MANY      2.9     78.03     3.143    176 MANY        2.3     717.6   41.9"   _X151   320.       3.0
33m8      2J7       31.9    6.7  MANY       2.3      12.84     U3.6   39.4  MANY        3.1     76.931    3.142  m77 MANY          2.3     664.5   42,03   2,338   173.9    3.2
AM                   ISO                                        7o                                         773                                        1406
Laf* )               3.5                                         25                                         S6                                         641
r
0W 



Tabloe 8.2              o        i ndicators and Mainteane Standards
LINKS in Pai and Poor  Nano w Roads Westem Reo
(1990 pnces)
UN3.   ASF            W1041VL0WIPAR                   AIP         WU4PdtJoP0R                  AV           Wlk44.W IPA8                  A2JU        11IIK41W  WIO                  ASP           W5C4lMfDOAUt
Mao.         coo NFl         NPV       -     MpV/         ca w7k         EP      MR    "VW          Cogn            NV    MR   NW              cad mir        NOV    331   NWIt           COO       NW       V    33*   NW
Akr      A"7        Em..  .,n           s     INV.   A,M         eV   .n3         s     INV.   Agmw         EM..   mU        s     WNV.   Ag=cy       EMU.    nm   s          INV.   Agm.Y         EI    mi         s  INV.
.33w       Thai      IdTld t TOW                        Tol TOW                                   T.u       Toi                              TOW3t     T1                                Tzt       Thaw
12S      12%                                12S       t2S                              12S      12%                              125       12%                              12S        12S
WAE    2161.5    6.8I6                                2.147.s    7.36                             7168     5,71i1                           90.6    *,327                               3,10       St7
06SI     1,007.7    S,7S3   t.123   MANY       1.1   1,004.3    6.142   1,224 MAW          .2     352.7    5,252    S29 MANY        1.$     428.1    7,S30    797   93.i       1.9      I.66       48.3    3.4   81.0    2.0
06Y2       834.9   5.627   1.249      s4.5    1.1       332.0    6.060   1.306    89.4    1.6     292.1    5.225    5S7   103.7    1.9       387.2   77.94    734   1210-      1.9      1.54       484      3.3  116.9    2.1
(6Y3       756.5    5,592   3,284     146.8    t.7     751.3    6,062   ON304  310.7    1.7       264.7   5S240    542   373.6    2.0        318.6    7.628    699   1".1      2.2      1.41       41.5    3.2  t9S.2    2.3
06Y4       666.5    5.578  1.i2       474.8    1.9     686.0    6.069   1,297   477.7    1.9      240.2    5.273    50s  NONE        2.1     2S9.2    7.694    634  NONE4    2.2        127        48.      2.9  NONE       2.3
06YS       623.9    5.581   3,29S    NONE      2.1     624.0    6.08o   t.285  NONE       2.1     216.3    5.3l7    465  NONE        2.1     263.0    7,760    568  NONE       2.2       103        49.1    2.6  NONE       2. 
06Y6       568.1    5.192   1.284    NONE      2.3     568.7    6.097   1.269  NONE       2.2     398.8    5,360    423  NONE        2.1     239.5    7.826    503  NONE       2.1      0.93        49.6    2.1  NONE       2.3
RCYI    3.477.7    t.806    (932)  MANY        4.3   3.451.7    8,17S   (312) MANY        40.2   1.229.3    5,940   (359)    7.0   -4.1   1,475.2    8.341      (14)   11.7    0.0       5.73       51.4    0.3   13.6    0.3
RCM2    3.116.2    7.529   (653)  MANY    -0.2   3,W07.1    7.949   (182) MANY            0.2   1,103.5    5.861    (80)    8.5    0.3   1,322.1    8,309        19    32.7    0.0       5.13       51.0    0.7   16.4    0.3
RCYI    2,305.7    7.297   (421)  MANY    -0.1   2,7S5.8    7,750   (3841 MANY    .0.t            987.3    1.809    (28)   10.1    0.0   1,385.2    8.295        33    13,7    0.0 .    4 59        50.8    0.9   20.3    0.2
RCY4    2,516.1    7.101    (25   MANY         -0.1    X498.9    7.58    (212  MANY    -0.3    885.4    5.7S3         (1)   11.9    0.0   1.063.0    8,290       37    15.5    0.0      4t,1        50.8    0.9   25.4    0.2
RCYS    2,257.6    6.942    166)  MANY         0.0   2,242.8    7.410    (64) MANY        o.a     794.1    5.773            30.6    0.0      953.9    S.292      35    82.6    0.0       3 69       51.0    0.6  156.0    0.2
RCY6    2,026.8    6.8=        68       9.1    0.0   2,014.3    7,302      64     9.2    0.0      713.3    5.768      13 MANY        0.0     856.5    8.301      26  NONE      0.0       3.31       51.3    0.4  NONE       0.1
AMr                          155                                          114                                       447                                        529                                         1000
paRob 0                       664                                       695.S                                      232.1                                      286.5                                           3
st*
O r



Table 8.3    Econmic Indicators and -Mainteanc Standard
LINKS in Pair and Poor Condition/Wide &aads (Wilatern Reon~
(1990 prices)
SWF       wa)6V1.OWIFAIR                 DlIP        eWV>7low/PoOE               32        WS>44.0W IhAIt                32P       we>4/Low niomS                83?       W>4ImrD (fAIR                93P       WB>4f&&V0 (900
Mowd.    c68 amf         Ni'    MRS  NPV(           coo m7k        Nil'   IRS  NPW          CAW ioYh         Ni'  Om5   PWI         Cod on~        Nil    MR  RiV/          C.0 soIl      'prV    ERt NPYI         coo soln       Nil'    amS  N
PA"  how?         F.oin.   lh      S   INV1.    Ay          F~.  aon             INV. Agy.          Eos.      il    S   INY. A&~7          Esos.  Osi       S    WNV. Age=y         E~. asoi        IS  371. Agoty    Eoo.   pTl           S   WV41.
sioil    Toed     TOWd                            TobA      Tdol                          TOW       TOW)                         T.Wo       Tota                         Total     TOWa                          TOWa      TtAhl
12%s      12 %                           12 %      12 ?                           I   12        S         12%S 12%                    S           12%9 12%9                               12%                12%  32
9AS.  S12.4       1.703                          374.2     I.005                       1.595.2    10.013                         309.3     4.517                        632.3      7.411                       100 62   3.317.5
06Y3   2S8.A      1.438   265    48.  32.0        330.8       806    99  MANY    3.3   343.9       9.703   1.111  S8.1   1.3   366.4       3.99  3S29    63.5   1.4   303.7        6.730   681    78A    2.0   548 , .2LIMA  129.5    95 9   2.4
0612   212.5      3,423   20    68.2   3.2        366.1      331   203  MANY    3.2  '113.9        9.692   1.121  02.3   1.5   333.3       4,01%   520    35.0   3.5   33.9        6.760   653   107,2   2 1   49.31      2 70.4 137.2   139.3   2 4
0617)  209.2      1.414   239   334.4   3.4       349.3      795 20   MANY    1.4   633.1          9.717   1.090 132.9   3.6   304.4       4.044   434   132.3   t.6   2T7.9       6.333   593   1S991   231   443  3  .23.S 204.3    3 70.3   2.3
0614   133.7      1.410   293  1AANY    1.6    133.1         392   212  MANY    3.6   635.3        9,777   1.036 360.2   1 7   214.5       4.071   456   316.6   1.7   250 2       6.334   526   393.4   23 1999"   1296.6  91 0   407.0   2.3
0613   374.2      3.433   292  MANY    1.7        122.3       790   234  MANY    1.3   554.3       9,031      961 ONE    1.7   247.4       4.100   427  NONM    3.1   225.4        6.93t   459  NON?R   206   36 06   1.309.7? 79  NONE    2.2               -
36Y6   IS?74      1.413   290  MANY    2.3        3*0.4       7819  236  MANY    2.0   514.2        9.922     893  ONE    1 7   22) 4      4,329   39   NONE    3.3   3031 3       1.018   392  NONE    3.9   32 35   1.322 7  6430  NONE   2 0
UCYI  339.3       3.932  (2303 MANY    0.3        609 4     1.170  (365) MANY   .0).3 2,632.3    312.21    (430)  5.7  0).2  3. 17071    4.679  (152)    6 6   -0.3  3,050.9       7.311    94     14,13  031  168 22   3.3434  39.        39 2   0.2
RCY2   753.6      3,365  (3635 MANY    0 2        5413      3.1323  (3392 MANY   0 2  2,355.7   I31.0331   (7403  6.6   0.3  3,047.0       4.673   ("93    6.9  -0.31   9472       7.203   327    37.1   03   350.OL56   1.132I6  33.9    20 6   0 2
OMI   672.9       1.309  (t06) MANY   0.2         491 3     3.085   (31) MANY    0.2 2,322.3    10.930    (117)  3.0   0.3   944 0         4.306   (593     7.6   0.3   34738    7.2371  23    19.1   03   3 3439   1.316 4  13.3    22.4   0.2
OCY4   402.7      1.762   (59) MANY   -031        439 9     3.01*   (46) MANY   06.1 3,900.3    10.363        (1m0)  .5   0.0   343 4      4.556   (29)    7.1   0.0   739.1       7.106   304    213I'  03   120170   2,362.1  25.        25.4   0.2
RC'S   $43.3      3.225   (22) MANY    0.0        394.2     3,022   (27) NONE    0.0  3,702.3    30.326       (133   3.3   0,0   757 4     4.534    (7)    2.2   0 0   679.0       7.330    OD    90.    034  309 19   3.3691  33.4   342.0   0.2
AcY6   436.7      3.694     9    30.5   0 0       333.6       919    26  MANY    0.3  1.525,3    30.900        14 ANY    0.0   673.7        4,533     9  MANYT   0.0   60931       7.350    53  NON?   0.3   96 94    1.376 0  1.35  740(3    0.3
AM                        243                                       354                                      636                                   539                                    3340                                    1247
3.00bAn                  309.51                                    84.5                                     323.3                                   349                                     124                                   2.



Table 9. Wfmlt Maintenance Stardards cnd ExLenditures. ithout eudaet Constraints. F1Y994-2011 by Period
Uestern Realon
(i1llions of 1990 Taka)
Net Present       Ratio      financial  Costs            f nincist Costs Undsscowuted
LINK   DT  Length  Naint. Maintenance Standard                Value     tRR   PV/        fn Present Value          _      Cspital t  Reciirent
Code         km   Standard Description                        (12K)           Total     discounted at 12X          fY94-97 FY98-01 F102-t1  FY94-11
Code                                                      Cap.Rec Capital Recurrent Total                                 Total
a Take    (X)          u Take  a Taks   a TakO      n Take     Tak  m Toa    m Taks
Nbria Rook. Cup to 4 m)
Aif   1SS   664    06Y4  Overlay In 1996 and 2004             1.296   t100    1.9    583    103          687        781      49     857      1.687
Ale  150      4    SEY2  Reseal  in 1994 mnd  verlay in 2000    8    173    2.2          3      1          3          2       4       5         10
AlP  t55   696    063  Overlay In 1995  ndi 2003              1,304    151    1.7    647    108          75s        m        52     856      1.684
A2F   447   233   06Y2 Overtay in 1994 nd 200                   SS7    104    1.9    256       36        292        274      17     299        590
A20   720    2S    SE6 Newel in 1998 and Overlay In Z 4    39    136   3.1               9      4         13          2       9      29         40
A2P   529   287   06Y1  Overlay In 1993, 2001 ad 2009           797    92    1.9    384        44        428        329      21     668       1,017
3F 1,000      I   0611  Overlay In  993, 2001i s2008              3     81    2.0        2    0.2          2          1    0.1        3           4
Subtotal  IM                                                  4-006 l       * 1       .M A I,8.10                 L1o      iz   ?LJM        5.2lB
Wide RPa_t (ider thM     4 m)
SIF   242   110   06Y4 Overlay In 1996 and 2007                 293    >100   1.6    171       18        189        243       6     256         508
BIP   155    85    06Y6  Overlay in 1998 and 2001               216    >100   2.0       97     13        110          6     177    18          371
B2F   615   324    06Y2 Overlay In 1994 nd 2003                1,121     82   1.5    708       51        759        755      24     795       1,573
B2G   774    86    SEY6  Reseal  In 1998 and Overtay in 2004   177       104   2.3      62    1S          77          6      48     210        265
82P   559   149   06Y1  Overlay In 1993 and 2003                529      64   1.4    342       24        366        336      11     356         703
O3F 1.139   124    06Y1  Overlay In 1993 and 2001               681       79   2.0     325     19        344        299       9     313        621
930 1.465   641    SEYS  Reseal  In 1997 and Overlay in 2003 2,151       121   3.0     611    107        718         47     406   1,821      2,274
83P 1.247    22    06Y1  Overlay In 1993  nd 2001               130      96   2.4       52      3         SS         48       2      50         99
a6trSrbl  1.5"                                                5.297       85_ ]k 23B i                 2B          ^4         E    ^B         .
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L .. .                                           ..61                  _ . .. ....  __ .._.
lotol     3.447                                               9,303      101   1.9  4.251    S47       4,79?      3,905     83?   6,153      11'44?
09
oe 
0
O M



Table 10. Selected Maintenance Standards and Expenditures. With Budbet Constraints, FY1294-2011 by Period
Western Regi
(millians of 1990 Taka)
Met Present       Ratio      Financial Costa            Financial Costs UkhIscounted
LINK  ADY  Lenrth  Mafnt. Maintenance Standard                Value     IRR   mPV/       In Present Va(ue                 C2Rital 4 Recurrent
Code         km   Standard Description                        (122)           Totat    discounted at 122           FY94-97 FY98-01 fY0e-11  1Y94-11
Code                                                      Cap8Rec Capital Recurrent Totat                                Totat
m Taka   (M)           a Take m Taka    m Tako    a Taka a Take n Take   a Take
atrrm Raubd (te to 4 ml
AIF   155   664    06Y5  Overlay in 1997 and 2005             1.295   >100    2.08   521    103          624         49     781     857      1 687
AiG   150     4    SE12  teseal  in 1994 and Overlay in 2000           173    2.18      3    0.7           3          2       4       5         10
AIP   155   696    06   Overlay In 1996 and 2004              1,297   '100    1.89    578    108         686        777      52     856      1,684
A2F   447   233    06M   Overlay in 1995 ad 2003                542    174    2.05    229     36         265        274      17    299         590
A2G   720    25    SEY6  Resesl  In 1998 and overlay fn 2004    39    138    3.07       9      4          13          2       9      29         40
A2P   529   287   0611  overlay In 1993, 2001 and 2009          797    92    1.86    384       44        428        329      21     "68      1017
3F 1,000      1   06   Owolaty n I993, 2001 ond 2008              3     81    2.02      2    0.2           2          1     0.1       3          4
Subtotat j.08                                                          151    1,97  .724    297        2.021      132             2 716      5.
Wide Book (of th, 4 a)
61F   242   110    06Y5  Overlay in 1997 and 2007               292   >100    1.68    157      17        174          8     243     256        507
SIP   155    85    06Y6 Overlay in 1998 and 2001                216   >100    1.95      97     13        110          6     177     188        371
8Zf   615   324    06Y2 Overlay In 1994 and 2003              1,121     82    1.48    708    51          759        755      24     795      1,573
82G   774    86    SEY6  Reseat  In 1998 and Overlay In 2004   177    104    2.31       62     15         77          6      68     210        265
02P   559   149   06Y3 Overlay in 1995 and 2004                 484    132    1.59   281       24        304        336      11    354         701
B3f 1,139   124    06Y1  overlay in 1993 an  2001               681     79    1.98   325       19        344        299       9     313        621
830 1,465   641    SEYS  Reseal  fn 199? end Overlay in 2003 2,151    121    3.00    611    107          718         4?    406   1,821       2,274
93P 1,247    22    06Y1  overtay fn 1993 nd 2001                130     96    2.36      52      3         55         48       2      50         99
Subtotal                 1^L I    L                                             f    ,.-      m        L53t       LM          9   LW6t       O
Yotal     3.44? 4                                             9,232    119    2.02  4,016    546       4,567      2,98 m    I,=    6m703    11,45
W For adjusted link length see lable 11 footnote.
o f



Table 11. Selected Maintenance Standards and Physical Uorks. FY1994-2011 by Period
Western Resion p/
(Cn kilometers)
LINK  ADt  Length  Maint. Maintenance Standard                Ratio           Overlaw  Uwks    _                             Wes&sl Marks
Code         km   Standard Description                         NPV/    FY94-97 FY98-O1 FY02-11 Total      FY94-97 FY98-01 FY02-11 Total
Code                                       Total
Cap4Rec     ki      km      km      km         km     kim      km      k
bnros Reeds (Me to 4 a)
AIF   155   oT    06Y5  overlay In 1997 And 2005                2.08      --      647     647   1294        -- 
AIG   150     4    SEY2  Reseal  in 1994 and Overla In Z000  2.18         --       4       -        4        4                        4
AIP   155   641    06Y4  Overlay in 1996 and 2004               1.89     661       --    641   1,282        --                        -
A2F   44T   233    063  Overtsy In 1995 wnd 2003                2.05     233       --     233     466 -6            --               --
A2G   720    25    SEY6 Reseat  fn 1998 and Overlay in 2004  3.07         --       --      25      25       --      25               25
A2P   529   287    0611  overlay In 1993. 2001 and 2009         1.86     287       --    574      861       -        -
A3F 1,000      1   06Y1  Overlay in 1993, 2001 and 2008         2.02        1      --       2       3       --           --      - -
subtotal~~~~ ~ ~ 1-9t   q^m$ I.16                                      2&22   3.9354                                 2
MId. Rieds (wider than 4 e)
BIF   242   106    06v5  Overlay In 1997 and 2007               1.68       -      106 lS   06     212
SIP   155    60    066  overlay In 1998 and 2001               1.95       -       60      60     120
B2F   615   332    0612  Overlay in 1994  nd 2003               1.48     332       --     332     664        -
52G   774    86    SEY6  Reseat  In 1998 and Overlay In 2004  2.31         --      --      86      86                86      --      86
U2P   559   149    06Y3  Overlay In t995 and 2004               1.59      149      --     149     298                -       --      --
B3f 1,139   126    0611  overlay In 1993 eod 2001               1.98     124       -      124     248        -       --      --      -*
93G 1,465   533    SEYS  Reseat  In 1997 end Overlay In 2003  3.00         -       -      533     533       - -  533         --     53
B3P 1,247   130    06Y1  overlay in 1993 and 2001               2.36      130       -     130     260       --       --      --      --
Subtotetl J                                                                       i3 16    .5220   ?,421         e                  619
Totat     3,358 at                                              2.02   I,89m      817   3.642   6,356        4      644       a     643
"~~~~~~~~~~~_                                               _ _   _ _ _              ..               .. =  
p/     There Is a marginal difference in the link iength of this table ccmpared to previous tables because 89 km of roadr in tiXe oriqnai
analysis were incorrectly classified as being in the 9estern Region when they were actually in the Eastern 8egiwn.  This does not mste- aWO
affect the analysis, only the final numaber of kilometers selected. ehich has beep reftected correctly In this tabte ond in imb.  12.
t4
crE
OQ Z
N3r



ANN5lFX 4. 1
Page 22 of 28
TThJle  12:  PopoHsed Paved Roads  Prram    F94-9   by Joad
Western Reg ion
(1990 bage data)
Route
Section: Road                           Length  Req, Widtth   IRI  ADT   LINK Maintenan. Cumulat.
Number, Route flame                       Road SHlovd                          in  Length
(kin)     (i) (m)          (vpd)        Code Year  (km)
0041 -l : N5    ; BEL0ANGA-PANCHAGAR       16.0   R  5.5  1 5   6.0   560   52P  O&Y3  3    16
0041 -2 :S    , BELOANGA-PANCHAGAR         i4.5   R  5.4  1.4   f.3   560   82P  06Y3  3    31
0041 -3   N5    , BELDANGA-PANCHAGAR        6.5   R  5.4  1.5   8.6    560   82P  06Y3  3    37
0041 -4   Ns    , BELDANGA-PANCHAGAR        4.0   R  3.5  1.9   6.6    560   A2P  06Y1  1    41
0041 -5 :N5       BELQANGA-PANCHA6AR       12.5   R  3.2  Z.1   7.4    560   A2P  06Yt  1    54
0041 -6  N5       BELDANGA-PANCHAGAR       24.0   R  3.3  2.0   8.9    560   A2P  06Yl  1    78
0042 -2 :NS       PANCHAGAR-sANGLABANDH   27.0   R  3.3  2.0   6.7   270   AIP  06Y2  2   105
0042 -3 : Ns      PANCHAGAR-BANGLABANDH   12.5   R  3.1  2.0   7.6   270   AIP  06Y2  2   117
0042 -4: NS       PANCHAGAR-BANGLABANDR    1.0   R  3.0  1.8   9.3    270   AlP  06Y2  2   118
0043 -1 : N52     BOGRA-NATORE             11.5   R  5.6  1.6   4.9  1,150   B3F  06Y1  1   130
0043 -2 : N52     BOGRA-NATORE             39.5   R  5.5  1.9   5.5  1,150   B3F  06Y1  1   169
0043 -3 : N52   , BOGRA-NATORE              4.0   R  5.6  1.7   6.3  1,150   B3F  06Y1  1   173
0043 -4 : N52     BOGRA-NATORE              7.0   R  5.4  1.6  7.5  1,150   83P  06Y1  1   180
0043 -5 : N52     BOGRA-NATORE              1.0   R  5.4  1.5  8.5  1,150   83P  06Y1  1   181
0044 -1 : N56   , RANGPUR-KURIGRAM         15.0   R  5.5  2.4   5.8   420   B2F  06Y2  2   196
0044 -2 : N56    RANGPUR-KURIGRAM          21.0   R 4.0  2.3   5.7    420   A2F  06Y3  3   217
0044 -3: N56      RANGPUR-KURIGRAM         14.5   R  4.0  2.4   6.2    420   A2F  06Y3  3   232
0045 -1 : N58   , DINAJPUR-BELDANGA         1.0   R  6.8  1.3   5.6    960   82F  06Y2  2   233
0045 -2: N58   , DINAJPUR-BELDANGA         15.5   R  6.8  1.2  6.2    960   B2F  06Y2  2   248
0046 -2 : N59   , BARABARI-LALMONIRHAT      1.0   R  3.3  1.5   7.2    220   AlP  06Y2  2   249
0047 -3 : N59   t LALMONIRHAT-PATGRAM       2.5   R  3.6  1.7   7.3    160   AlP  06Y4  4   252
0053 -1: N7    , JHENAIDAH-JESSORE          6.5   K  7.0  1.5   7.5  2,210   B3P  06Y1  1   258
0053 -2 : N7    , JHENAIDAH-JESSORE        10.5   K  6.4  1.3   6.3  2,210   83P  06Y1  1   269
0053 -3 : H7    , JHENAIDAH-JESSORE        17.0   K  6.5  1.3   8.4  2,210   83P  06Y1  1   286
0053 -4 : N7    , JHENAIDAH-JESSORE        11.5   K  5.9  1.5   6.5  2,210   B3P  06Y1  1   297
0054 -1 :N7    , JESSORE-KHULNA            18.0   K  9.4  2.0   6.7  2,230   B3P  06Y1  1  315
0054 -2 :17    , JESSORE-KHULNA            39.0   K  6.7  1.6   6.0  2,230   83P  06Y1  1  355
0054 -3   N7      JESSORE-KHULNA            5.5   K  6.7  1.7   7.4  2,230   83P  06Y1  1   360
0055 -1 :7    , KHULNA-NOWAPARA            10.0   K  8.6  1.9   4.9  1,020   83F  06Y1  1  370
0056 -1   N7    , NOWAPARA-MONGLA          26.5   K  7.6  2.2   4.9   420   82F  06Y2  2   396
0057 -5 :N72      JESSORE-MAGURA            7.5   K  3.5  2.5   7.8    240   AlP  06Y2  2   404
0057 -6: N72      JESSORE-MAGURA            7.5   K  3.6  2.3   9.4    240   AlP  06Y2  2   411
0058 -2: N74   , JHENAIDAH-KUSHTIA          1.5   K  6.2  1.8   7.0  1,180   B3P  06Y1  1   413
0059 -1  1N74   , KUSHTIA-BHERAM4ARA        8.0   K  6.8  1.0   6.7    810   B2P  06Y3  3   421
0059 -2 : N74   , KUSHTIA-BHERAMARA         3.0   K  6.2  1.5   9.5   810   B2P  06Y3  3   424
0059 -3 : N74   , KUSHTIA-BHERAMARA         7.0   K  5.1  1.7   6.9    810   82P  06Y3  3   431
0059 -4 : N74     KUSHTIA-BHERAMARA         1.0   K  4.2  2.0   8.4    810   82P  06Y3  3   432
0061 -1 : N76   , JESSORE-BENAPOLE          6.5   K  5.7  2.2   4.8  1,320   83F  06Y1  1  438
0061 -2 : N76   , JESSORE-BENAPOLE         21.0   K  5.5  2.0   5.4  1,320   83F  06YI  1   459
0061 -3 : N76     JESSORE-BENAPOLE          4.0   K  5.2  1.7   6.7  1,320   83P  06Y1  1  463
0061 -4 : N76     JESSORE-BENAPOLE          3.5   K  5.5  1.5   7.4  1,320   B3P  06Yl  1  467
0061 -5 : N76   , JESSORE-BENAPOLE          4.5   K  5.1  1.7   8.9  1,320   83P  06Y1  1  471
0065 -1 : N84     FARIBPUR-BHANGA           5.5   K  6.7  1.5   5.6  1,000   B3F  06Y1  1  477
0065 -2 : N84     FARIDPUR-BHANGA           3.5   K  6.7  1.5  6.3  1,000   B3F  06Y1  1  480
0065 -3 : N84   , FARIOPUR-BHANGA          11.5   K  5.7  2.5   5.5  1,000   83F  06Y1  1   492
0065 -4 : N84   , FARIDPUR-BHANGA          11.0   K  5.7  2.3   6.2  1,000   B3F  06Y1  1   503
0065 -5 : N84   , fARIOPUR-BHANGA           1.0   K  4.0  2.5   5.5  1,000   A3F  06Y1  1   504
0066 -1 : N8      BHANGA-TEKERHAT          18.0   K  5.6  1.9   5.3   840   B2F  06Y2  2   522
0066 -2 : Ns       BHANGA-TEKERHAT          1.5   K  5.6  1.8   6.3    840   B2F  06Y2  2   523
0067 -1 : N8      TEKERHAT-ROSTAFAPUR      11.5   K  5.3  1.6   5.4   430   B2F  06Y2  2   535
0067 -2 : N8      TEKERHAT-MOSTAFAPUR       2.5   K  4.9  1.8   6.8    430   B2P  06Y3  3   537
0067 -3 :11    , TEKERHAT-MOSTAFAPUR        1.0   K  3.4  2.5   6.4   430   A2F  06Y3  3   538
0067 -4 : N8      TEKERHAT-MOSTAFAPUR       1.0   K  3.4  2.5   7.2   430   A2P  06Y1  1   539
0068 -1 : Ns       MOSTAFAPUR-BARISAL       9.0   K  6.6  1.5   5.5   420   B2F  06Y2  2   548
0068 -2: N8    , MOSTAFAPUR-BARISAL        19.0   K  5.5  1.5   5.7   420   B2F  06Y2  2   567
Table 12 Page 1



160  -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 23 of 28
Table  12   Proposed  Paved Roads Protram, FY94-97, by  Road
Western Region (continued)
(1990 base data)
Route
Section: Road                            Length  Reg   Width    IRI   ADT   LINK Maintenan. Cuwutat.
Number, Route Name                         Road Should                           in  Length
(km)       (m)  (m)         (vpd)         Code Year  (km)
0068 -3 :N8 a      ,4OSTAFAPUR-BARISAL       4.0   K  5.5  1.7   6.4    420   B2F  06Y2  2   571
0068 -4   N8    , MOSTAFAPUR-BARISAL        24.0   K  3.2  2.4   6.6    420   A2P  06Y1  1   595
006& -5   NB-   ,MOSTAFAPUR-8ARISAL          3.5   K  3.3  2.5   7.5    420   A2P  06Yt  1   599
0218 -1 : R540  , SSRAJGANJ-HATIKAMRUL    10.5   R  5.6  1.9   5.3    510   82F  06Y2  2   609
0218 -2 : R540  , SIRAJGANJ-HATIKAMRUL       8.0   R  5.2  1.5   6.3    510   82F  06Y2  2   617
0218 -3 : R540    SIRAJGANJ-HATlKANRUL       1.0   R  5.1  1.5   7.3    510   82P  06Y3  3   618
0219 -1 : R545  , BOGRA-NAOGAON              2.0   R  7.5  1.0   6.0    930   82F  06Y2  2   620
0219 -2   R545    BOGRA-NAOGAON             48.0   R  5.4  2.3   6.5    930   82F  06Y2  2   668
0221 -1   R545  , NAOGAON-MOHADEVPUR         4.0   R  5.5  1.0   5.0    670   B2F  06Y2  2   672
0221 -2 : R545  , NAOGAON-MOHADEVPUR        11.5   R  3.6  2.3   5.8    670   A2F  06Y3  3   684
0221 -3 : R545  , NAOGAON-MOHADEVPUR         2.0   R  3.6  2.5   7.0    670   A2P  06Y1  1  686
0221 -4 : R545  , NAOGAON-MOHADEVPUR         4.0   R  3.6  2.4   9.9    670   A2P  06Y1  1   690
0222 -1   R550    MOKAMTOLA-JOYPURHAT        9.5   R  5.4  2.3   5.5    530   82F  06Y2  2   699
0222 -2 : R550    MOKAMTOLA-JOYPURHAT       22.5   R  5.4  2.1   6.2    530   82F  06Y2  2   722
0222 -3 : R550  , MOKAMTOLA-JOYPURHAT        2.0   R  3.6  1.6   5.7    530   A2F  06Y3  3   724
0222 -4 : R550    MOKAMTOLA-JOYPURHAT        2.0   R  3.6  2.0   6.5    530   A2F  06Y3  3   726
0222 -5 : R550    MOKAM;QLA-JOYPURHAT        1.0   R  3.6  2.0   7.5    530   A2P  06Yt  1   727
0223 -1 : R555    PALASHBARI-GAIBANDAH       1.5   R  5.6  1.1   5.5    330   B2F  06Y2  2   728
0223 -2 : R555    PALASHBARI-GAIBANDAH       1.0   R  5.6  1.1   6.0    330   B2F  06Y2  2   729
0223 -3 : R555  , PALASHBARI-GAIBANDAH       6.5   R  3.6  1.7   5.4    330   A2F  06Y3  3   736
0223 -4   R555  , PALASHSARI-GAIBANDAH    12.0   R  3.5  1.6   6.1    330   A2F  06Y3  3   748
0225 -1 : R585    DINAJPUR-PHULBARI          8.0   R  5.4  1.5   6.4    690   82F  06Y2  2   756
0225 -2 : R585  , DINAJPUR-PHULBARI         25.0   R  4.3  1.8   6.5    690   B2F  06Y2  2   781
0225 -3 : R585  , DINAJPUR-PHULBARI          7.0   R  3.6  2.0   6.9    690   A2P  06Y1  1   788
0226 -4 : R585  , PHULBARI-GOBINDAGANJ       1.5   R  3.6  2.3   7.3    260   AIP  06Y2  2   789
0228 -1   R685    RAJSHAHI-NAOHATTA          6.5   R  5.6  1.5   5.5    640   B2F  06Y2  2   796
0228 -2   R685    RAJSHAHI-NAOHATTA          3.5   R  5.6  1.5   7.3    640   82P  06Y3  3   799
0229 -1 : R685  , NAOHATTA-CHOUMASHIA        1.0   R  5.6  1.5   7.1    320   G2P  06Y3  3   800
0229 -2 : R685    N HAOHATTA-CHOUMASHIA      3.0   R  5.6  1.5   7.6    320   B2P  06Y3  3   803
0229 -3 : R685  , NAOHATTA-CHOUMASHIA       13.5   R  3.6  2.1   5.5    320   A2F  06Y3  3   817
0229 -4   R685  r NAOHATTA-CHOUMASHIA       37.0   R  3.7  2.3   6.2    320   A2F  06Y3  3   854
0229 -S : R685  , NAOHATTA-CHOUMASHIA        1.5   R  3.8  2.3   7.0    320   A2P  06Y1  1   855
0230 -1   R710  , AHLADIPUR-RAJBARI          1.0   K  5.6  1.0   6.2    460   82F  06Y2  2   856
0230 -2   R710    AHLADIPUR-RAJBARI          4.0   K  3.7  2.0   5.2    460   A2F  06Y3  3   860
0230 -3 : R710  , AHLADIPUR-RAJBARI          5.0   K  3.7  2.0   6.2    460   A2F  06Y3  3   865
0231 -2 : R745    KUSHTIA-MEHERPUR          20.0   K  3.8  1.8   7.6    200   AIP  06Y2  2   885
0231 -3 : R745    KUSHTIA-MEHERPUR          29.0   K  3.8  1.8   8.6    200   AIP  06Y2  2   914
0231 -4   R745    K KUSHTIA-MEHERPUR         1.5   K  3.9  1.8   9.5    200   AlP  06Y2  2   916
0232 -4   R745  , MEHERPUR-CHUADANGA         2.5   K  3.4  2.7   7.4    180   AlP  06Y4  4   918
0232 -5   R745  , MEHERPUR-CHUADANGA        11.5   K  3.2  2.8   9.2    180   AlP  06Y4  4   930
0232 -6 : R745    M MEHERPUR-CHUADANGA       2.0   K  3.2  2.8  11.4    180   AlP  06Y4  4   932
0233 -1   R745  , CHUADANGA-JHENAIDAH        1.0   K  5.6  1.5   5.9    370   B2F  06Y2  2   933
0233 -2   R745  , CHUADANGA-JHENAIDAH        2.0   K  5.6  1.5   8.5    370   82P  06Y3  3   935
0233 -3   R745  , CHUADANGA-JHENAIDAH       10.0   K  3.5  2.5   5.7    370   A2F  06Y3  3   945
0233 -4 : R745  , CHUADANGA-JHENAIDAH        5.0   K  3.4  2.5   6.6    370   A2P  06Y1  1   950
0233 -5 : R745  , CHUADANGA-JHENAIDAH        8.0   K  3.7  2.4   8.0    370   A2P  06Y1  1   958
0233 -6 : R745  , CHUADANGA-JHENAIDAH       12.0   K  3.6  2.4   9.8    370   A2P  06Y1  1   970
0234 -1 : R750  , JESSORE-NARAIL             3.0   K  5.6  1.8   5.4    540   82F  06Y2  2   973
0234 -2 : R750  , JESSORE-NARAIL            10.0   K  5.3  1.5   7.6    540   82P  06Y3  3   983
0234 -3 : R750  , JESSORE-NARAIL             4.0   K  3.6  2.4   6.6    540   A2P  06Y1  t   987
0234 -4 : R750    JESSORE-NARAIL             9.0   K  3.7  1.9   7.6    540   A2P  06Y1  1   996
0234 -5 : R750    JESSORE-NARAIL             6.5   K  3.6  2.0  10.1    540   A2P  06Y1  1 1,002
0235 -1 : R755  , JESSORE-CHUKNAGAR         16.5   K  3.5  2.3   6.3    590   A2F  06Y3  3 1,019
0235 -2 : R755  , JESSORE-CHUKNAGAR         13.5   K  3.6  2.3   7.4    590   A2P  06Y1  t 1,032
0235 -3 : R755  , JESSORE-CHUKNAGAR          8.5   K  3.8  2.5   8.6    590   A2P  06Y1  1 1,041
0236 -1 : R760  , KHULNA-SATKHIRA            2.5   K  6.3  2.5   6.0    790   B2F  06Y2  2 1,043
Table 12 Page 2



- 161 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 24 of 28
Table 12: Proposed Paved Roads Progrram, FY94-97, by Road
Western Region (continued)
(1990 base data)
Route
Section: Road                           Length  Reg   Width    IRI   ADT   LINK Maintenan. CumuLat.
Nuiber, Route Name                        Reoa  Should                         iri Length
(km)       (m)  (m)        (vpd)        Code Year  (km)
0236 -2   R760    KHULNA-SATKHIRA           1.0   K  4.7  2.5   5.7    790 B2F  06Y2  2 1,044
0236 -3   R760  K, ULNA-SATKHIRA            1A.   K  4.7  2.5   6.2    790 B2f 06Y2  2 1,045
0236 -4   R760    KHULNA-SATKHIRA           1.0   K  4.7  2.5   8.6    790   82P  06Y3  3 1,046
0236 -5 : R760  , KHULNA-SATKHIRA          15.0   K  3.9  2.5   6.0    790   A2F  06Y3  3 1,061
0236 -6 : R760  , KHULNA-SATKHIRA          36.0   K  3.8  2.5   7.2    790   A2P  06Y1  1 1,097
0236 -7: R760  , KHULNA-SATKHIRA            3.0   K  3.8  2.5   8.6    790   A2P  06Y1  1 1,100
0237 -1 :R770  , NOAPARA-BAGERHAT          20.0   K  5.6  2.4   5.0    440   B2f 06Y2  2 1,120
0238 -1 :R770  , BAGERHAT-PIROJPUR          8.5   K  5.5  2.3   5.4    340   82F  06Y2  2 1,129
0238 -2 : R770    BAGERHAT-PIROJPUR        10.5   K  3.9  1.5   5.3   340   A2F  06Y3  3 1,139
0238 -3 : R770   fBAGERHAT-PIROJPUR         1.0   K  4.0  1.8  6.3    340   A2F  06Y3  3 1,140
0238 -4 : R770  , BAGERHAT-PIROJPUR         1.0   K  3.8  1.5   8.5    340   A2P  06Y1  1 1,141
0239 -1 : R860  , MOSTAFAPUR-MADARIPUR      6.0   K  5.6  1.8   5.7   490   B2F  06Y2  2 1,147
0239 -2 : R860    MOSTAFAPUR-MADARIPUR      1.0   K  5.6  1.8   6.8    490   82P  06Y3  3 1,148
0242 -1 :      R880    PATUAKHALI-AMTALI   10.0   K  3.5  1.0   8.5      70   AIP  06Y4  4 1,158
0246 -1 :R545  , MOHADEBPUR-PATNITALA       1.5   R  3.8  2.0   5.5    360   A2F  06Y3  3 1,160
0246 -2 :R545  , MOHADEBPUR-PATNITALA       5.0   R  3.8  2.0   6.5    360   A2F  06Y3  3 1,165
0246 -3 :R545  , MOHADEHPUR-PATNITALA       6.0   R  3.8  2.0   7.6    360   A2P  06Y1  1 1,171
0246 -4 : R545  , MOHADEBPUR-PATNITALA      1.5   R  3.8  2.0   8.8    360   A2P  06Y1  1 1,172
0248 -3 : R780  , NOAPARA-MOLLARHAT         6.5   K  3.9  1.5   7.2      90   AlP  06Y4  4 1,179
0249 -3 : R850  , TAKERHAT-GOPALGANJ        2.0   K  3.6  1.5  11.4    110   AlP  06Y4  4 1,181
0250 -3 : R860  , MADARIPUR-SHARISTAPUR    1.5   K  3.5  2.3   7.2    106   AlP  06Y4  4 1,182
0252 -4 : R545  , PATNITALA-DHAMOIRHAT      4.5   R  3.8  2.0   7.3    130   AlP  06Y4  4 1,187
0252 -5 : R545    PATHITALA-DHAMOIRHAT      1.0   R  3.8  2.0  11.4    130   AIP  06Y4  4 1,188
0253 -2 : R545    OHAMOIRHAT-JOYPURHAT      1.0   R  3.8  2.0   6.8      70   AlP  06Y4  4 1,189
0253 -3 : R545  , DHAMOIRHAT-JOYPURHAT      3.0   R  3.8  2.0   8.7      70   AIP  06Y4  4 1,192
0253 -4 :R545  , DHAMOIRHAT-JOYPURHAT       2.0   R  3.8  2.0  11.4      70   AlP  06Y4  4 1,194
0254 -1 : R880  , AMTALI-BARGUNA           10.5   K  3.4  0.7  11.4      40   AIP  06Y4  4 1,204
0255 -1 :R585  , DINAJPUR-PHULBARI          8.0   R  5.4  0.0  11.4    690   82f 06Y2  2 1,212
0256 -2 :R710    RAJBARI-KUMARKHALI         7.0   K  3.7  2.5   8.5      90   AlP  06Y4  4 1,219
0257 -1 : R710    KUMARKHALI-KUSTIA         3.5   K  3.7  1.9  11.4    418   AlP  06Y4  4 1,223
0258 -1 : R850  , GOPALGANJ-MOLLARHAT       5.0   K  3.5  1.3  11.4      30   AlP  06Y4  4 1,228
0547 -3: F5002 ,DHARMAGARH-THAKURGAON    1.5   R  4.0  1.5   7.5    160   AlP  06Y4  4 1,229
0547 -4 : F5002 ,DHARMAGARH-THAKIURGAON    5.0   R  4.0  1.5   9.2    160   AlP  06Y4  4 1,234
0547 -5 :F5002 , DHARMAGARH-THAKiURGAOM    3.5   R  4.0  1.5  11.4   160   AIP  06Y4  * 1,238
0550 -3 : F5004 , BIRGANJ-HARIPUR           6.5   R  3.7  1.6   7.6    140   AlP  06Y4  4 1,244
0550 -4 : f5004 , BIRGANJ-HARIPUR          17.0   R  3.6  1.6  8.3    140   AIP  06Y4  4 1,261
0550 -5 :F5004 , BIRGANJ-HARIPUR            1.0   R  3.6  1.5  11.4    140   AlP  06Y4  4 1,262
0554 -2 : F5009 , RANISHANKAIL-NEKMORD      1.0   R  3.6  2.0   6.8      70   AlP  06Y4  4 1,263
0555 -1 : F5011 , SAIDPUR-PARBATIPUR        2.5   R  5.4  1.5  9.2    400   82P  06t3  3 1,266
0555 -2 :F5011 , SAIDPUR-PARBATIPUR         3.0   R  3.7  1.5   6.9    400   A2P  06Y1  1 1,269
0555 -3 :F5011 , SAIDPUR-PARBATIPUR         4.5   R  3.7  1.5   8.1    400   A2P  06Y1  1 1,273
0555 -4 :F5011, SAIDPUR-PARBATIPUR          4.0   R  3.7  1.5   9.3    400   A2P  06Y1  1 1,277
0559 -3 : F5025 , RANGPUR-BARDARGANJ        3.5   R  3.5  1.2  11.4    120   AlP  06Y4  4 1,281
0561 -3 : F5035 , MOKAMTOLA-SONATOLA        4.5   R  3.8  1.3  7.1    130   AIP  06Y4  4 1,285
0562 -1 :F5041 , BHUIYGATTI-TARAS          13.5   R  3.6  1.0   7.5    120   AlP  06Y4  4 1,299
0566 -3 :F5451   NAOGAON-BADALGACHJ         5.0   R  3.2  0.9   7.4    160   AlP  06Y4  4 1,304
0566 -4 *F5451   NAOGAON-BADALGACHI         5.0   R  3.4  1.0  10.1    160   AIP  06Y4  4 1,309
0566 -5 : F5451 , NAOGAON-BADALGACHI        1.0   R  3.4  1.0  10.8    160   AlP  06Y4  4 1,310
0568 -1 : F5454 , PATNITOLA-SHAPAHAR        2.0   R  3.7  2.0   6.8    170   AlP  06Y4  4 1,312
0568 -2 :F5454 , PATNITOLA-SHAPAHAR        20.0   R  3.7  2.0   7.5    170   AIP  06Y4  4 1,332
0568 -3 : F5454 , PATNITOLA-SHAPAHAR        2.5   R  3.7  2.0   8.9    170   AIP  06Y4  4 1,334
0569 -3 :f5457 , NAOGAON-ATRAI              3.0   R  3.5  1.1   7.3    130   AlP  06Y4  4 1,337
0569 -4 : f5457 , NAOGAON-ATRAI             1.0   R  3.5  1.0  11.4   130   AIP  06Y4  4 1,338
0570 -2 :f5612 , MAHIGANJ-HARAGACHA         1.0   R  3.6  1.5   7.1    140   AIP  06Y4  4 1,339
0570 -3 :F5612 , MAHIGANJ-HARAGACHA         2.5   R  3.6  1.5   8.7    140   AlP  06Y4  4 1,342
0570 -4 :F5612 , MAHIGANJ-HARAGACHA         1.0   R  3.3  1.3  11.4   140   AIP  06Y4  4 1,343
Table 12 Page 3



- ( 62
ANNEX  4.31
Page 25 of 28
,    -  Pri --osed  Paved Ro sro           ramF ,9497  ._b                Road
:.esLexnPeq4I         (cantitinuedl
(1OO bswe data)
Pout e
Soc-    loaj a                            ength  wtS   Width    IRI   AOTJ  L[iNK Maintenan. Clumat.
4;. >4n' .; ;P.<e Nqrar                    Ro.  Shoutd                           in  terngth
(knl       (rn)  (Pn)       (v[A)         Code Year  (km)
0S76 -  F5i'i,,  lt(';1ARI-M OAP 'b.    P R .7 1             '   6.6    130   A1P  06Y   4 1,347
0576 ->   P5707, NT.rHAMARI-011?0   R  3.7  1.1   7.6    130   AlP  06Y4  4 1.349
0MG0 -2  :FS!r2   O i IAJPUP - KHANPiJR      '0   R  3.6  2.0   7.7    150   AlP  06Y4  4 1,353
0564  3 :F6'J0O, ISnJAROI ;AHCSVAI             S   tR  3.,< 1.7   6.9    180   Al1x O6Y4  4 1,56
0584 -4   F6006 1SWARI-SBANESWAR             t.0   R  3.4  1.4   7.6    180   AlP  06Y4  4 1,360
0584 -:   F6006   ISWARP.V1B3NESW5R      s       G   R  3.3  2.3   9.0    180   AIP  06Y4  4 1,363
051W. 6   r6OF00,I Slti RD!-BANESUAR       I ?.O   R  3A 4  1.6  11.4    180   AlF  06Y4  4 1,380
0586 -5 :F680, hAWASGANJ-KANSAt              5.C   R  3.5  1.3   7.6    120   AlP  06Y4  4 1,385
0586 -6   F6801 r NlAWABGANJ-KANSAI          2.0   R  3.5  1.1   9.8    120   AIP  06Y4  4 1,387
0591 -2   F7031   CHURAMONKCA1I-CHOWGACHA   6.5   K  3.6  1.7   6.8    230   AIP  06Y2  2 1,393
0591 -3   F7031 , CHURANONKATI-CHOWGACtHA   8.5   K  3.5  1 6   7.7    230   AIP  06Y2  2 1,402
0591 -4   F7031, CHURAMONKATI-CHOWGACIIA   1.0   K  3.7  1.8   9.4    230   AIP  06Y2  2 1,403
0593 -2   F7102 , RAJBARI-MADHUKHALI          1 5   K  3.7  1.5   7.3    160   AIP  06Y4  4 1,404
05S4 -1   F745F4, CHlJADANGA-DATTANAGAR      6.5   K  5.7  2.5   6.7    430   B2P  06Y3  3 1,411
0596 -.2  F7454 , ZHJADANGA-DATTANAGAR    11.0   K  5.7  2.5   7.3    430   82P  06Y3  3 1,422
u594 -S   F?454 ,  tHUADANGA-DATTANAGAR      2.0   K  5.7  2.5   8.1    430   82P  06Y3  3 1,424
0594 -4   P7454, GHUADANGA-DATTANAGAR        4.5   K  1.i  2.0   6.5    430   A2F  06Y3  3 1,428
0594 -5 . F7454, CNJA0ANGA-0ATTANAGAR        9.0   K  3.7  2.F   7.1    430   A2P  06M1  1 1,437
0594 -6   F7454, CHUADANGA-DATTANAGAR        4.0   K  3.7  2.8   8.5    430   A2P  06Y1  1 1,441
0596 -1   F7601 , NAVARAN-SHATKHIRA          5.0   K  3.8  1.6   5.1    480   A2F  06Y3  3 1,446
0596 -2   F7601 , NAVARAN-SHATKHIRA         15 5   k  3.9  1.6   6.7    480   A2P  06Y1  1 1,462
0596 -< * F7601 , NAVARAN-SHATKHIR4         13.5   K  3.7  1.7   7.6    480   A2P  06Y1  1 1,475
0596 -  *;?601 , NAVARAN-ShATKHIRA           8.5   K  3.7  1.6   8.7    480   A2P  06Y1  1 1,484
0597 -1   F7602   SHATK$IRA sHETKHALI        6.0   K  3.7  2.5   5.4    490   A2F  06Y3  3 1,490
0597 -2 . F7602, SHATKHIRA-BHETKHALI        27.5   K  3.7  2.4   6.5    490   A2F  06Y3  3 1,517
0597 -3   r7602 , SHATK'IRA-sHETKHAL1       20.5   K  3.7  2.4   7.4    490   A2P  06Y1  1 1,538
0597  4   F7b02 , SHAFKHTRA-8HETKHALI        2.5   K  3.7  2.3   8.9    490   A2P  06Y1  1 1,540
0606 -3   F8033 , BARISAL-SWARUPKATI        15.5   K  3.7  O.7  1i.4    160   AlP  06Y4  4 1,556
0609 -1  :8402 , FARIOPUR-CHARBHADRASHA   2.5   K  3.7  1.8   8.5    120   AlP  06Y4  4 1,558
0610 -1 : f8403 , FARIDPUR-SHAHID SOBHAN   2.0   K 12.0  1.5   4.9    370   B2F  06Y2  2 1,560
0610 -2 : f8403 , fARIDPUR-SiAHID SOaHAN   1.0   K  7.8  1.0   6.0    370   B2F  06Y2  2 1,561
0610 -3 : F8403   fARIOPUR-SHAHID SOBHAN   3.0   K  6.4  1.7  8.5    370   82P  06Y3  3 1,564
0613 -1 : F8901   TALUKDERHAT-BHOLAKHEYA   9.0   K  3.7  1.5   8.5    120   AlP  06Y4  4 1,573
0614 -2   f8902   BHOLA-BORHANUDDIN         21.5   K  3.3  1.5   7.5    210   AlP  06Y2  2 1,595
0615 -1   f8902 , BORHANUDDIN-LALMOHAN    27.5   K  3.4  1.5   8.5    110   AlP  06Y4  4 1,622
0616 -: F8902 , LALMOHAN-SHASHIBHUSHAN  21.0   K  3.6  1.5   8.5    160   AIP  06Y4  4 1,643
0632 -1   f6005 , SHISPUR-DURGAPUR           1.5   R  3.0  2.0   6.9    140   AIP  06Y4  4 1,645
0632 -2 :6005 , SHIBPUR-DURGAPUR             5.0   R  3.0  2.0   7.7    140   AlP  06Y4  4 1,650
0632 -3 : F6005 , SlIBPUR-DURGAPUR           1.0   R  3.0  2.0   8.7    140   AIP  06Y4  4 1,651
0632 -4 : F6005 , SHIBPUR-DURGAPUR           1.5   R  3.3  2.0  10.6    140   AIP  06Y4  4 1,652
0634 -1 : f6011 , BON?ARA-DAYARAMPUR         4.0   R  3.4  1.7   6.7    180   AlP  06Y4  4 1,656
0534 -2 * F6011 , 8ONPARA-DAYARAMPUR         8.0   R  3.4  1.3   7.4    180   AIP  06Y4  4 1,664
0635 -3 : F6021 , TEBUNIA-HHANGURA           9.0   R  3.7  1.4   7.3    180   AIP  06Y4  4 1,673
0635 -4: f6021, TESUNIA-BHANGURA             9.0   R  3.7  1.7   9.3    180   AIP  06Y4  4 1,682
0635 -5: F6021   TEGUNIA-BHANGURA            3.5   R  3.7  1.7  11.2    180   A1P  06Y4  4 1,686
0636 -2   F6026 , 4ACHUPUR-SANTHIA           6.0   R  3.4  1.0   7.8    180   AlP  06Y4  4 1,692
0636 -3 : F6026 , MADHUPUR-SANTHIA           2.0   R  3.4  0.5   9.0    180   AlP  06Y4  4 1,694
0636 -4 : f6026 , MADHUPUR-SANTHIA           2.0   R  3.4  1.0  11.1    180   AlP  06Y4  4 1,696
0709 -1 * F5551   SUNDARGANJ-GAIBANDHA       9.0   R  3.5  1.3  11.4    110   AlP  06YI- 4 1,705
0712 -2 * F5458   DARGAHAT-KAHALU            1.0   R  3.0  1.0   6.7    110   AlP  06Y4  4 1,706
0712 -3 : f5458 , DARGAHAT-KAhALU            1.5   R  3.0  1.0   8.2    110   AlP  06Y4  4 1,707
0714 -2 : F6012, NATORE-BAGATIPARA           4.5   R  3.6  1.0   7.8       80   AIP  06Y4  4 1,712
0714 -3 * F6012 , NATORE-8AGATIPARA          8.0   R  3.6  1.0   9.1       80   AIP  06Y4  4 1,720
0714 -4 : F6012 , NA1ORE-BAGATIPARA          2.5   R  3.6  1.0  11.4       80   AlP  06Y4  4 1,722
0720 -3 : F7453 , CHUADANGA-PORADAH          5.5   K  3.8  0.8   7.4    180   AIP  06Y4  4 1,728
0752 -1: F8401, PUKURIA-SADARPUR             9.5   K  5.5  1.5   6.7    310   U2P  06Y3  3 1,737
Table 12 Page 4



'TalbIe  .2   Pi        e    paved Ecad          ..  1..               J .t
Western  'l .11ir '012
(199C ba.e d.t *,
Route
Section: Road                               eorgtfi  Reg   1 .-Ith     RIi   'T                        c )__._U
lumber, Rouite N1dfI1                       Road Sh o-ui i                            -
(kin)   -    0 ,' (n) 3 fin)  ins           ^.-:  ;
0752 -2   F8401, PUKURIA-SADARPUR              2.t   k  S     .,   ,8    'lu    Af,  :;.Y 1        I 73-)
0752 -3 : F8401, PUKURIA-SADARPUR               1.L    K  3.6  0.5   O. '     Z :   1,74
0766 -2 : F7502, NARAIL-KALIA                  5   .r, ?         ?                   ho o 9-.
0766 -3   F7502   F NARAILNAP0KALIA                   K  3     3.4 1           6 6        'b.
0766 -4 : F7502   NARPIL-KALIA                  1.0      3 6  1.3  1'         ''   A 'l    '         7'
0767 -2   f7503   NARAIL-SHATtAPARA            -.0   K  3.   2. 5                   0" 1
0767 -3   F7503   NARAIL-8HATIAPARA             7.5   K  3-9  2.6   8. 7       'i     -              AIf"'
0767 -4   F7503   NARAIL-BHATIAPARA            4 0   K  '.Y  2.6  105 '       0'   AW   u'Y2       !,?t,_`
0802 -3 : F6806, NAWABGANJ-GOMOSTAPUR          2.0   R  3.7  1.         5      t!   aU- (06(4      . /6u
0803 -1 : F7022   KALIGANJ-JIBANNAGAR          12.0   K  5.-  1.8 ; "    L4sj BBf    06Y3  3   -177g
0803 -2 : F7022, KALIGANJ-JIBANNAGAR          12.5   K  5 . 1,8 8.Z,   64G   8ZP  06Y3   1,790
0803 -3   F7022, KALIGANJ-JIBANNAGUR           4.5       4. 1  2.5   5.7    640   By4  rv;AY7  2   7'i
0803 -4 : F7022, KALIGANJ-JIBANNAGAR           3.0   K  4.i 2.5   6.8    640   62P f36CY3  3 1-798
0803 -5 : F7022, KALIGANJ-JIBANNAGAR           3.5   K  4.1  2.5   8.7    640   R2P  06r3 2
0804 -2   F7401   GARAGANJ-SAILKUPA            6.0   K  3.1  1.3   9.7        '0   OP  C6V4  4 1,837
0808 -1 : F8906   BANGLABA,AR-HAKIMUDDIN   7.0   K  3.o, 7.5   8.5            90   AtP  0614  4 1,814
5062 -1   F5062, KALAMPUR-BALIA                7.0   P  3.7  1.8   6.6    190   01,  06Y4  4 1,821
5062 -2 : F5062   KALAMPUR-BALIA               3.0   R  3.7  1.6   7.5    19Q   AlP  06`4  4 1,824
5062 -3 : F5062, KALAMPUR-BALIA                 1.0   R  3.7  1.5   8.2    190   AIP  06r4  4 1,825
5402 -2   F5402, SIRAJGANJ-SHAHAJADPUR    3.5   R  3.?  !.0   3.7    150i  Jlii  SFiB  .? 1 829
5402 -3   F5402, SIRAJGANJ-SHAHAJADPUR    1.0   R  3.7  0.9   8S7    150   AIP  06Y4  4 1,830
5503 -2 : F5503, JOTPURHAT-HILI                4.5   R  3.3  ;.5   7.4   1i0   A1ll  06Y4  4 1,834
5503 -3   F5503, JOTPURHAT-HILI                3.5   R  3.3  1.5   8.4    140   AlP  r16Y4   1,838
5503 -4 : F5503, JOTPURHAT-HILI                3.5   R  3.2  1.3  11.4       140   AIP  06Y4 r   1,841
5621 -4 : F5621   KURIGRAM-CHILMAR       ;     6.0   R  3.7  1.6 z.5    I 0n  A',P  068'4  4 1,847
6015 -2   F6015   AHMEDPUR-GURUDUSPUR          6.0   R  3.3  1.8   7.6    150   AlP  06Y4  4. 1,853
6015 -3 : F6015, AHMEDPUR-GURUDUSPUR           5.5   R  3.4  1.5   8.6    15P   AIP  06Y4  4 1,859
7036 -1   F7036, CHANCHRA-MURAIL               4.5   K  6.0  1.8   6.5    680   8?F  06Y2  2 1,86S
7411 -4   F7411 , RHERAMARA-DAULATPUR          4.0   K  3.3  1.4   7.8    280   A1r  06Y2  2 1,867
7411 -5 : F7411, BHERAMARA-DAULATPUR          11.5   K  3.5  1.5   9.4    280   AhP  06Y2 s 1,879
7431 -1 : F7431, ISWARDI LINK-ROAD             2.5   R  5.1  2.5   7.tj   50   827 r,6Y3  3 !,b81
8404 -1  : F8404   TALMA-NAGARKANOA             1.0   K  3.2  1.0   6.7    100   AIP  06Y4  4 1, b8?
8404 -2 : F8404   TAL A-NAGARKANDA             3.5   K  3.?  1.0   7.7    100   AIP  06Y4 G  1,886
8404 -3 : F8404   TALMA-NAGARKANDA             4.0   K  3.2  1.0   8.'    100   A1-  06Y&  4 1,890
8404 -4 : F8404, TALMA-NAGARKANDA              2.5   K  3.2  1.0  11.4.   10t(   AlP  0671t  4 1,892
9606 -1   F5024, PAGLAPIR-SHAMPUR              6.0   R  2.9  2.0   7.5    120   AIP  OSY4  4 1,898
Total -                             1.898  km
Source: Road Master Plan aata fites.
Table 12 Page 5



- 164 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 27 of 28
TabLe 13: First Year Periodic Maintenance Progran
Sunmary Economic Evaluation
(costs in million Taka)
Average                    Roughness    Invest-
Road Location                    Length      Width     ADT Range         Range        ment        NPV       EIRR
(km)       (m)                         (TRI)       Cost                    M
Wide Roads
Jhenaidah - Khulna                108.0       6.7      1,736-1,877       8.5-9.5       357       1,093      91.9
Faridpur   Barisal                126.8       5.7        430-1,131       7.0-8.1       547         575      36.0
Rangpur Bypass                      7.4       7.3            1,076           8.0        43          37      40.2
Saidpur - Betdanga                 23.0       6.0              679           7.5        95          68      24.3
Total Wide Roads              265.2          -                -            -    1,041        1,772      54.0
Narrow Roads
Navaran- Bhetkhali                 99.0       3.8          154-342       8.4-9.5       296          84      20.1
Rangpur - Kurigram                 32.0       4.0              809           8.0        93          77      38.9
Pakshbari - Gaibandha              21.0       4.4              396           7.2        63          18      17.2
7utd ., na  w2vn                            -                -             -        5 c170              27 2
Total First Year Mainterance
Program                           417.2         -                -             -    19q'.        1.952      44.9
Note:   January 1994 road condition, traffic and prices.
ADT = Average Daily Traffic (4-wheeL motorized)
IRI = International Roughness Index



- 165 -
A"NEX 4.1
pave 28f 28
Table 14:  fta b'i im I, O Cocpoinen
_umar  ycno ffigoltton
(costs In milltfn Take)
Average
Road Location              Length      Width       ADT       Roughness  Investment    NPV        EIRR
(km)       (M)                    CIRI)        Cost                   (X)
Dasuris - Natore            39.0        6.0      1,841          a?          588        Z08        27.#
Natore - Raishahi           36.5        6.6        821         8.5          495         77        16.4
RaJshahi- - Ntawabganl      44.0        4.3        938         9.2          524        t45        20.4
Uatore Bypass                5.9        7.3          t          A/          314        210        18.9
SubtotaL               125.4           -         -                    1920         720        20.8
Rangpur - Saidpur           34.5        5.8      1,010         8.0          336        178        22.2
Saidpur Bypass               8.0        7.3         I/          P           184         83        17.2
Subtotal                42.5          -          -                      520        261        20.0
Total Rehabilitation
Corponent                  167.9                                          2,440        981        21.6
Note:   January 1994 road condition, traffic and prices.
ADT = Average Daily Traffic (4-wheel motorized)
IRI = International Roughness Index
I     No data given for bypasses as they do not exist.  Expected traffic/ADT in first year of operation Is
1,155 vehicles/day for Natore and 1,021 vehicles/day for Saidpur.



- 166 -
ANNEX 5.21
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.   Road Materials and Standards Study-Bangladesh (Volumes I-IX) (Draft
Final Report), Howard Humphreys & Partners/CEBTP/DDC(89C)-, June 1992.
2.   Road Master Plan Project (Volumes I-X) (Final Report), Transroute/
Stup/BCL (UNDP), December 1992.
3.   RRMP-II: File Document - Note on Adequacy of Road User Charges in
Bangladesh (Includes Referenced Report/Addendum), Bank Staff/
Consultants, February 1994.
4.   Construction Industry Development- Revised Action Plan (Final Report),
R. Islam/LBII/Sarm, January 1993.
5.   RRMP-II: Pre-Investment Study - Preliminary Engineering and Feasibility
Report (Final), LBII/Sarm, May 1992.
6.   RRMP-II: Pre-Investment Study - Soils and Materials Reports (Appendices
to Final Report), LBII/Sarm, November 1991.
7.   RRMP-II: Pre-Investment Study - Final Engineering and Economic
Feasibility Report, LBII/Sarm, October 1993.
S.  RRMP-II: Pre-Investment Study - First Year Periodic Maintenance -
Engineering and Economic Feasibility Report (Final), LBII/Sarm, March
1994.
9.   RRMP-II: Pre-Investment Study - Maintenance Component/First Year-HDM-III
Input Data and Field Survey Results, LBII/Sarm, October 1993.
10. RRMP-II: File Document - HDM Analysis, Bank Staff/Consultant, January
1993.
11. RRMP-II: File Document - Project Economics Updating, Bank Staff/
Consultant, April 1994.
12. RRMP-II: Environmental Analysis for RRMP-II, LBII/Sarm, April 1993.
13. RRMP-II: Socio-Economic Survey of Affected Families, Resettlement Plan
for Affected Families, and Supplement, LBII/Sarm, January/April 1993.
14. RRMP-II: Land Acquisition Plans/Profiles, Sarm, November 1991.
15. RRMP-II: Resettlement Action Plan, CCDB, May 26, 1994.
16.  RRMP-II: Project Concept Paper and Project Proforma, RHD/GOB, May 1994.



- 167 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 2
17.  RRMP-II: Technical Assistance Project Proforma for Institutional
Development of RHD, RRTD and BRTA, RHD/GOB, November 1993.
18.  RRMP-II: Bid Documents for First Year Periodic Maintenance Program (5
Contracts), LEII/Sarm, April 1993.
19.  RRMP-II: Bid Documents for Rehabilitation Works (6 Contracts) (Final
Draft), LBII/Sarm, July 1993.
20.  RRMP-I1: Analysis of Construction Contractor Prequalifications
(Maintenance Works), LBII/Sarm, May 1993. -
21.  RRMP-II: First Year Periodic Maintenance Program Tender Analysis Report
for Contracts 1-5, LBIT/Sarm, November 1993.
22.  RRMP-II: Analysis of Construction Contractor Prequalifications
(Rehabilitation Works), LBII/Sarm, April 1994.
23.  RRMP-II: Appendix A-Job Descriptions of Individual Specialists, from
Terms of Reference for Twinning/Consultancy Team for Institutional
Development Program, April 1993.
24.  RRMP-II: Evaluation Reports for Supervision Consultancy Services, RED,
October 1993.



IBRD 2420
. ,J   89      BANGLADESH
NEPAL/                                                         SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
' ./ IPECh^t^NS >  #                                         PROPOSED PROJECT:
.J'~-7'\    .\ :,   =) lROAD REHABIUTATION
f                 I>                                  \                   , 7t X t . R mPERIODIC MAINTENANCE (FIRST YEAR PROGRAM)
.Thokurg.t*f -p    )                                                     (NATIONAL / REGIONAL I FEEDER ROADS]
-26,   .(S       i                                                               PREVIOUS PROJECT (CR 1827-BD):
lp amori        6L bmonirat       -      =      ROAD REHAB UTATION
i                                                        - - -g   DEFERRED MAINTENANCE ON
SELECrED SECTIONS
L /     ; *-   NATIONAL ROADS
REGIONAL ROADS
\   <  Qi*Ur  Ns  )   &1 Z \x  )-  ' ' t   -.t  RAILROADS
, ',<     ' \i  . *-'     -~ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
.  t-- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5 f- *~ S   Jotaypur,hat    aI}b. ,)  \<y-_
/Patnitala     ,-                                0     20   40    60 B0    100
-25~                                                                                  K'LOMET ERS                    2
<   '.bganil   \ <      fh  i/;        >}. t J          <~~~~~~~~~~n
\u(&   \           p)     }~  /    \Sroganj, t-' '
/     o   ,.1k  'c ~     ~   0Tongail 
-,\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b TheM W.dd 'a' ,/Ir$w-staf
ICahl nsthawr                    )         a us fd o. ibs for  24t
/    lomatq we s) Tb,, Wedd Saab
(                                        of ees -d _iT d s II,66 ".
asibouadaiu to-s
I  DHAKM   \     50 di,s m~~~ap de rot imply. onath.
MX5 bs                                             | ,^(agsXh 4  \X -  DHAK.  ) -_ _
I N DI A        O                                   
INDIA      .N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ INI
,,  (in'  /1                      ~~~BA GLADS
Area af
Boger            1993
(9.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETMUR19



