Document oif
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USED ONLY
Report No: 22364-BD
IMPLEMENTATION COMPIETION REPORT
(IDA-26380; IDA-26381)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 162.9 MILLION (US$ 226.80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR SECOND ROAD REHABILrTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
04/18/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/30/2001)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
Bangladesh Taka 54.10 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.018 = Bangladesh Taka 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 01 June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE          -      Additional Chief Engineer
ADB          -      Asian Development Bank
BRRL         -      Bangladesh Road Research Laboratory
BRTA         -      Bangladesh Road Transport Authority
BTSS         -      Bangladesh Transport Sector Study Project (BGD/89/036)
BUET         -      Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
CCDB         -      Christian Commission for Development in Bangladesh
DC           -      Deputy Commissioner
EIRR         -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOB          -      Government of Bangladesh
HDM          -      Highway Design and Maintenance Standards ModelVersion III
LEB          -      Institution of Engineers of Bangladesh
IMSCT        -      Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee for Transport
IWT          -      Inland Water Transport
LGED         -      Local Government Engineering Department
MOC          -      Ministry of Communications
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV          -      Net Present Value
ODA          -      Overseas Development Administration (U. K.)
PCWD         -      Project Civil Works Director
RAP          -      Resettlement Action Plan
RHD          -      Roads and Highways Department
RMP          -      Road Master Plan
RMSS         -      Road Materials and Standard Study
RRMP-I       -      Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr. 1827-BD)
RRMP-II      -      Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
RRTD         -      Roads and Road Transport Division
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
TYRIP        -      Three Year Rolling Investment Program
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager/Director:    Vincent Gouarne
Team Leader:   Jonathan Kamkwalala



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
Second Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  11
6. Sustainability                                                                      12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                    19
10. Additional Information                                                            49
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  50
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  51
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  53
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  56
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  57
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     58
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 59
Annex 8. Status of Civil Works
Annex 9. Status of Resettlement Action Plan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their officiaI duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009465                                        Project Name: Second Road Rehabilitation &
Maintenance
Team Leader: Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi                           TL Unit: SASIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date. June 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name. Second Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance        L/C/TF Number: IDA-26380;
IDA-26381
Country/Department. BANGLADESH                                            Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/13/88                                 Effective: 09/27/94
Appraisal:  02/11/93                                  MTR.
Approval:  06/28/94                                 Closing:  12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency. GOB/ROADS & H'WAYS DEPT
Other Partners:  DFID
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Meiko Nishimizu                            D.Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                    Christopher Willoughby
Sector Manager:       Vincent Goume                             Marie Garcia-Zamor
Team Leader at ICR:   Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi                       Janet A. Koch
ICR Primary Author:   Uma Subramanian; K.M.
Maqsoodul Mannan; Mohi Uz
Zaman Quazi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=High.ly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Mlodest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to reduce the cost of road transportation on
heavily traveled roads and support the modernization of the road sector administration by
assisting the RHD/GOB in planning, design, construction (and reconstruction) and maintenance
by: (i) initiating physical implementation of the project in areas west of the Jamuna, thus
preserving the country's capital base of road infrastructure and improving high priority sections in
a systematic manner; and (ii) by developing its institutional and technical capacity to plan and
program works, administer and supervise works contracts; and operate and maintain the country's
main road system (SAR, 1994). To achieve the above objectives, the project components
included (i) civil works in the western half of the country that included rehabilitation (168 km),
widening (100 kms) and a major focus on periodic maintenance (1800 kms) of the roads (ii)
technical assistance for project preparation and implementation and (iii) a multi-year institutional
development component.
The project objectives are in line with the GOB priorities and IDA's CAS that promote
poverty reduction through labor-intensive private sector led economic growth, that would need to
be supported by provision and maintenance of physical infrastructure by the public sector. The
project objectives are also consistent with the transport sector review, and IDA's strategy for
involvement in the Bangladesh roads sector, that identifies the major sector issues as poor
planning and prioritization, management, budgetary controls, and inadequate maintenance. The
project objectives and components built on the physical and institutional work initiated under
RRMP- 1, including the implementation of the Road Master Plan, expanded the basis for sustained
improvement of the roads sector, by integrating a strong institutional development program
together with a program and system for periodic maintenance.
3.2 Revised Objective:
After the devastating floods in 1998 almost at the very end of the project implementation period,
as part of the flood-related assistance package, the project was extended until December 2000, to
allow for rehabilitation of roads damaged by the floods. The Development Credit Agreement
2638-BD was amended in May 11, 1999 to increase the credit amount from the original US
$146.8 million equivalent by an additional US $80.0 million equivalent to fund rehabilitation of
flood ravaged project roads and additional regional roads not originally covered by the project.
The original objectives of the project were not revised. The additional objective was to
rehabilitate the flood damaged road network consisting of project and non-project roads in the
areas of RRMP 1 and RRMP 2 and to restore them to pre-flood conditions, so as to reestablish
critical links and restore access of basic commodities (such as grain) to flood affected areas and to
poor rural markets through the feeder roads sub-component.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components to achieve the above objectives included:
(a) Road works: Civil works included (i) rehabilitation of about 168 km of national and
regional roads in the northwest, during a four-year period between 1995-98 (US $ 64.3 million)
(ii) widening of about 100 km of narrow roads (less than 5 m) to 2-lane standard (US$ 23.62
-2 -



million), and (iii) periodic maintenance (mostly asphalt concrete overlays and some resealing) of
about 1,800 km of national, regional and type A feeder roads in the northwest and southwest (US
$ 109.25 million).
(b) Project preparation and implementation support (US $15.73 million):   This
included (i) consultancy services to supervise implementation of the above road works over the
project period, (ii) prepare the detailed design, bid documents and environmental/resettlement
plans for Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara (N-H-B) road which is needed in conjunction with the
Jamuna bridge, (iii) carry out feasibility studies, detailed engineering and other preparatory work
for priority road rehabilitation and widening works, including improvement of type A feeder
roads, which may be identified during the project, and (iv) prepare a plan for land acquisition and
resettlement under the project and assist in implementing this plan.
(c) Institutional development (US $ 10.4 million): A multi-year program of integrated
support, including consultancy services, twinning arrangements, officer and staff training, research
and associated equipment (i) to RHD, to strengthen its planning and RDM capabilities, improve
data collection and use, enhance quality control of works, instill better work practices, and
improve environment for and capabilities of local contractors, (ii) to RRTD, to strengthen its
planning and economics capabilities and improve information systems, and (iii) to BRTA, to
enhance its road traffic safety efforts and assist in establishing an integrated approach to improved
road safety. In addition, US $ 7.74 million was set aside for miscellaneous expenditure. This
component was co-financed by DFID.
The project civil works components and the institutional development component were
directly linked with the project objectives, in reducing the costs of transportation through
improved, well maintained and safer roads in high traffic areas and by introducing modem
planning and management systems within the RHD, and strengthening its capacity to operate
more efficiently to avoid costly rehabilitation and reconstruction often, so that scarce resources
could be diverted to high priority needs in the sector. The reduced transportation costs, and the
increased access to markets are expected to benefit poor under-developed sections of the western
half of Bangladesh. The periodic maintenance and the institutional development components are
expected to improve the sustainability of the road assets of the country.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 The supplemental credit for flood-related assistance included rehabilitation of about 270
kilometers of flood damaged national, regional and feeder roads (Type A) (US $ 73.27 million)
and associated services (US $ 6.73 million).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   Quality at Entry of the project can be rated as satisfactory. The objectives of the project,
as discussed above, were consistent with the CAS and with the priorities of the government. The
project design, that placed a strong emphasis on institutional strengthening and in particular, on a
modern and sustainable maintenance program, was appropriate to the needs of the road sector
and the RHD, that required extensive overhaul and modiernization, as identified in the transport
sector strategy. The comprehensive institutional development component built on the preliminary
-3 -



changes introduced under RRMP 1, included strengthening of the HDM cell, establishment of an
environmental unit and a road safety unit, introduction of an extensive training program for
personnel from road related agencies in Bangladesh (RHD, Bangladesh Road Research Lab,
BRTA, LGED); twinning arrangements with international road agencies, and involving
international consultants, universities and technical institutes. This, together with the periodic
maintenance program based on annual surveys of road conditions and traffic surveys and
systematic allocation of maintenance funding on the basis of a Highways Design Model (HDM),
serve to increase the project sustainability.
3.5.2 The comprehensive though lengthy preparatory phase of the project ultimately resulted in
improved project design and in expediting the implementation phase. The rather lengthy
preparation period between project concept and appraisal is explained largely by the way the
project was conceived and how it evolved, initially as a third phase in the previous roads project
(RRMP 1), and then designed as a separate project. The project concept was drafted early when
the RRMP 1 had just become effective (1988), and a lot of the preliminary preparations for
RRMP 2 were done while RRMP 1 was still being implemented. As a result, project preparation
for RRMP 2 was not as resource intensive as might be expected. Also, the project was among the
first in Bangladesh infrastructure projects that required the environmental and social components
to be benchmarked against IDA's Operational Directives 4.01 and 4.30 standards, which added
about a year to the delay in the preparation and finalization of the project, but helped in
strengthening client acceptance/ownership.
3.5.3 The project risks were adequately assessed and addressed in the project design. To
address the risk of implementation delays or failure, contracts for supervisory consultants,
maintenance and rehabilitation contracts were issued, and preparations for land verification/
acquisition were made early in the project cycle, before credit effectiveness. As recommended by
the Association and approved by the borrower, substantial reduction of import duties on most
construction equipment helped the local construction industry and resulted in somewhat greater
participation of local bidders in rehabilitation and maintenance works. On the institutional side, to
address the risk of excessive dependence on international consultant expertise and poor capacity
within the RHD. the project design provided for close coordination between supervisory
consultant and the RHD staff, intensive training for staff, and timebound plans to shift key task
responsibilities to RHD staff, with safeguard measures to improve effectiveness of the IDC such
as qualifications criteria for staff counterparts, system for evaluation and audits, etc. There was
no quality at entry assessment by QAG of this project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The project achieved its major physical and institutional objectives. The objective of
lowering transportation costs for passengers and goods were achieved by completion of the
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works on the major trunk roads by their scheduled target
dates that brought about improved riding quality, reduced travel times, reduced traffic congestion,
and lower vehicle operating and maintenenance costs. Estimated savings for motorized traffic
amount to approximately US $156 million from reduced vehicle operating costs and US $13.7
million from reduced travel time. In addition, there are important non-quantified benefits in the
- 4 -



form of increased economic opportunities through improved access to less developed regions in
northwestern and south western parts of Bangladesh. The project road network, in combination
with the Jamuna Bridge, has facilitated the critical links between the western half of Bangladesh
with the eastern half, in particular with large markets in Dhaka. There is a surge in economic
activities in the western parts offering increased employment opportunities, markets and services,
through reduced transportation costs and easier access to rural areas and urban markets, giving
rise to what could potentially be a development corridor, from Bogra in the west to Dhaka in the
east and on to Comilla and Chittagong.
4.1.2 Though tangible outcomes from the IDC are long term and usually difficult to measure,
the capacity within RHD for planning, managing and implementing the civil works shows fairly
significant improvements as seen in RHD's enhanced capacity in implementing the RRMP 3.
Improvements can be seen in better (i) HDM use and adaptation, (ii) use of information systems in
RHD/ MOC, (iii) capacity for quality control of works, (iv) development of local engineering and
construction industry and (v) awareness and institutional mechanisms for improved safety. In
addition, systematic procedures have been established in RHD for planning and executing regular
network maintenance, thereby deferring more costly re:habilitation and reconstruction.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Physical Components. The implementation of the physical components of the project can
be considered highly satisfactory. Most of the physical components as originally defined (under
Credit 2638-BD) and covering a total length of albout 1478 kilometers for rehabilitation,
widening and periodic maintenance contracts, were completed within the project period. The
construction of bus lay-byes adjoining road pavement has contributed in improved road safety.
The construction of additional drainage structures and tree plantation along the sides of the roads
helped in improving the environment. Factors responsible for successful and timely completion of
civil works could be attributed to efficient supervision by consultants and good cooperation of the
project implementing unit/ director in prompt clearing of procurement issues and payments to
contractors.
4.2.2 The restoration works of project and non-project roads severely hit by the 1998 floods
was taken up through a supplemental credit of US $80 million equivalent.  The flood
rehabilitation works comprising of 116 contracts were also completed in time. 108 contracts were
completed by June 30, 2000. The remaining 8 contracts were completed by December 31, 2000.
4.2.3 Periodic Maintenance Component: The targets for the periodic maintenance component
have also been largely achieved. The RHD has issued the completion certificate for all of the
periodic maintenance contracts P1 -P20 under RRMP- 2.  RHD had also undertaken a
comprehensive program using GOB funding for periodic maintenance of roads rehabilitated under
RRMP -1 during 1987-94.
4.2.4 For sustained maintenance of the road assets, there will be need for attention in setting up
a sustainable financing mechanism for road maintenance, in future road interventions. An option
in the form of a dedicated Road Fund that is linked to user charges, has already been broached
with the RHD. In principle the government has also agreed that the new road linking the western
end of the Jamuna Bridge to Raj'shahi (N-H-B) would be a toll road (user charges to cover
- 5-



operations and maintenance). However, the option of establishing a Roads Board, with
representation from user groups and the private sector, to manage the Fund has not been
accepted.
4.2.5 Discontinuation of the old Form 2911 and introducton of a new contracting system for
small works is expected to become operational after July 2001. The new contracting system is
also linked with a Joint Registration System for contractors, which is expected to remove some of
the constraints on the development of small local contractors. The new system has already cleared
by the Ministries of Communication and Law and is awaiting clearance from the cabinet.
4.2.6 There were no financial covenants other than submission of annual audit reports of the
project accounts within 9 months of the end of fiscal year. The reports were submitted in a timely
fashion.
4.2.7 Institutional Components. The project's success in implementing its institutional
component was satisfactory. The Institutional Development Component (IDC 2) under RRMP 2
was funded by DFID (UK) and successfully completed in 1998. There were multiple elements
achieved under IDC 2 including an interim reorganization of RHD; the establishment of an HDM
cell and an environmental unit; a road safety unit; and an economics cell. The IDC 2 also enabled
the completion of an extensive training program for GOB personnel, both within and outside
Bangladesh. Following the completion of IDC 2, and a transition phase IDC 3 was started in
January 1999 with funding from DFID, to continue support for institutional capacity building in
Bangladesh roads sector. In partnership with the University of Birmingham, and with DFID
funding, a new HDM 4 model has been developed for Bangladesh, which will use the extensive
road data developed by RHD. Road inventory and condition data-base have been transferred to
Microsoft SQL server on the new network and HDM-4 introduced into the department, and used
for generating an annual maintenance program. The structure of the MIS system has been
finalized and the institutional aspects of operating the MIS Cell are about to be implemented. A
disaster management reporting and assessment system is in place now and this should assist in
better planning for flood control and other emergency works.
4.2.8 Road Safety: The specific outputs under the road safety sub-component are many and
form the basis for a concerted effort to improve road safety performance. They include:
* a new accident reporting and computerized data system piloted by the Dhaka Metropolitan
Police (MAAP) that was expanded to cover many parts of the country through trained local
professionals engaged to set up the computerized system and to train the police.
* establishment of a Road Safety Unit
* establishment of the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) as a coordinating institution for
concerned ministries/departments;
* the preparation of the National Road Safety Strategic Action Plan by Technical Working
Groups appointed by the NRSC during IDC 2; establishment of District Road Safety
Committees;
* numerous workshops and technical reports to build engineering and management capacity for
accident prevention as well as reduction measures and to build safety awareness within the
GOB as well as among NGOs and civil society; (See Annex 7 for a list of selected reports
- 6 -



prepared under IDC);
* a road safety audit manual to be implemented during IDC 3 and safety training of local
personnel by an international Road Safety Engineering advisor;
* specific recommendations for improved driver testing and training;
* A Draft Road Transport Act was prepared uncler a legislative committee that addressed
multiple road safety issues (such as inclusion of non-motorized vehicles, authority to set up
speed limits to be extended beyond BRTA; penalty units in place of specified fines, and
introduction of demerit points). This is still in draft form with the Ministry of Communication,
and would need careful revisions and strong committed implementation. Preliminary efforts to
identify gaps in traffic law enforcement were conducted under IDC2, that will be strengthened
by traffic police training and testing equipment for more effective enforcement under IDC 3.
4.2.9 A joint working committee has been set up by GOB with representatives from RHD and
Local Government Engineering Department (LGED), with the objective of better coordinating
their involvement with the local road construction industry and assisting its development. Uniform
criteria for registration of contractors in RHD and LGED have been developed and approved by
the concerned Ministries, and implementation is expected from July 2001. As a first step towards
streamlining contracting procedures and introducing new standard contract forms for the road
construction industry, a revised contract document has been prepared and approved by the
concerned authorities. The document is not only being used in the procurement of works for
donor financed projects, but the GOB plans to use the document for projects funded from its own
source from July 2001.
4.2.10 Social Component:
The implementation of the social component can be deemed satisfactory. Under the TOR agreed
with IDA, RHD contracted the Christian Commission. for Development in Bangladesh (CCDB), a
leading Bangladeshi NGO, actively involved in the project area, to assist in preparing,
implementing and monitoring a plan for land acquisition and resettlement under the project.
CCDB was also responsible for the preparation of the resettlement action plan (RAP) detailing
key characteristics of the affected population, nature of losses sustained, compensation policies,
implementation schedule, organizational framework and estimated budget.. The land acquisition
and resettlement under the project was carried out in accordance with the final agreed RAP. The
overall implementation of the resettlement action plan (RAP) and payment of compensation to
the entitled persons (EPs) were satisfactory, excepting for the payment of compensation to 26
households on the Khulna- Satkhira road. In response to the Bank team's continual follow-up, the
Ministry of Communications provided detailed information on the issue and their inability to trace
the 26 households, and requested the Bank to consider the matter as resolved and settled
permanently. Based on the detailed explanations provided by the Ministry, the Bank team
endorsed GOB's request to consider the matter as resolved. The status of implementation of the
RAP is presented in Annex 9.
4.2.11 Environmental Component:
The project has been designated by the ]3ank as Category B within its three-part
classification system. The actions recommended in Annex 3.11 of the SAR were implemented by
- 7 -



RHD appropriately based on site conditions. An important environmental concern was that of
potential adverse impacts of the project on the area's hydrology, particularly in relation to floods.
This concern was addressed in the the design of bridges and culverts and the additional drainage
structures constructed to reduce the water logging of the adjoining areas and potentially reduce
the effects of flood damage. Also, an Environmental Unit under RHD was established as
recommended at appraisal to address environmental impacts of RHD activities on a regular basis.
In order to maintain the environmental integrity of the project area, adequate steps were taken by
RHD (i) in retaining the existing trees and roadside vegetation and (ii) in protecting the planted
trees and turfed shoulders (iii) replanting on a reasonable scale. In the first, third and fourth year
periodic maintenance works, no trees were removed or disturbed along the entire length of 660
km. In the second year periodic maintenance work, only 150 trees were removed. In the
rehabilitation and widening contracts for 260 Km of road, 51,500 trees were removed and
438,000 trees replanted.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The World Bank HDM model was used for the economic evaluation of the project. At
project appraisal, the Periodic Maintenance Component gave an ERR of 45% and an NPV of
USD 48.5 million. The Rehabilitation Component then yielded an ERR of 22% with an NPV of
USD 24.37million. The ERR on the widening works was estimated at appraisal to be 25%. No
NPV is available on the widening component.
At completion of the project, an economic re-evaluation using the HDM 4 model yielded
the following results: The ERR on the Periodic Maintenance Component (cost US $110.65
miillion), was 66.6% with an NPV of almost US $55 million. The ERR for the Rehabilitation
Component and the Widening Component of the project (together costing US $99.5 million) was
computed jointly and gave an ERR of 28.7% and an NPV of approximately US $ 84 million.
Towards the end of the original project in 1999, an interim economic re-evaluation was
conducted for the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the individual road sections for years
1, 2, 3 and 4. The ERRs obtained for the individual road sections of the Rehabilitation
Component compare well with the estimates for the same individual sections estimated at
appraisal (Table 1, Annex 3). One of the road sections, the Rangpur-Saidpur section, yielded an
ERR 2.5 times that estimated at appraisal, mainly due to generated traffic caused by a surge of
economic activity in the area, that exceeded appraisal estimates. This is also indicated by the ERR
for periodic maintenance of the Rangpur bypass (79%) which is almost twice as that estimated at
appraisal (40%). Similarly the ERR for all of the individual road sections under the Periodic
Maintenance component are higher or equal to the estimates for the same road sections at
appraisal (Tables 2 A and 2B, Annex 3). The re-evaluated ERR figures for the periodic
maintenance component for years 2, 3, and 4 also consistently fall above 12%, ranging between
12 % to 130 % for almost all sections.
The project yielded significant savings in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs of
motorized traffic (US $ 15.6 million), discounted at 12%. Savings from reduced travel time for
both motorized and NMTs were to the tune of US $33.7 million. (Tables 3 and 4, Annex 3).
There was no economic evaluation of the institutional component nor of the safety
sub-component.
-8 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1   The institutional development impact of this project is significant. The outputs of the
institutional development component are described briefly in Para 4.2.6 above. This component
has made notable impact in terms of increased capacity within the RHD to plan, manage and
implement future civil works, maintain the road network. The capacity within RHD to ensure
quality control, in a more systematic, information-based and efficient manner, through use of
HDM model, GIS and other information systems and thlrough an overhaul of their administration
systems are noteworthy. As compared to the start of the project there is increased use of and
capacity in the local engineering and construction industry, particularly among the large
contractors. With the consolidation expected from the on-going IDC 3, several features and
systems introduced under IDC 2 are expected to become fully operational. To further strengthen
and sustain the institutional development impact, it would be important in future IDA
interventions, to continue the dialogue on sustainable maintenance financing including that of
establishing a Roads Fund, overseen by a Roads Board, with representation from users and
private sector.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.] Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The 1998 devastating floods at the very end of the project resulted in reversing some
physical achievements of the project by causing extensive damage not only to the project roads
but also non-project roads. The implementation of the works were interrupted due to submersion
and inaccessibility to sites. The same catastrophic event also had some positive effects, in that it
called on IDC inputs substantively in helping RHD adapt its survey and assessments systems to
plan and develop flood rehabilitation measures, in essence serving to test the efficacy of the
systems.
5.1.2. Extended periods of political unrest such as non- cooperation movement( hartals) during the
project period did have some adverse impacts on project implementation, but not on project
outcomes.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1   There were some delays in (i) decision-making in processing of contract awards, (ii)
relocation of public utilities and (iii) land acquisition and payment of compensation to the project
affected persons.
5.2.2 One factor that could potentially affect development outcome in the form of increased
road safety, was the initial lack of coordination among agencies concerned with road safety. This
was difficult initially and is still an evolving process. Integrating traffic police is a particularly
important issue. With the establishment of the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) under the
Ministry of Communication, the problem of coordination is beginning to be addressed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
-9-



5.3.1 There were no factors subject to implementing agency control that affected development
outcomes. Initial delays that adversely affected project implementation were delays encountered
at various work locations on the (i) award of contracts and (ii) payment to contractors. These
were overcome by the deputation of competent field staff and monitoring by the consultants.
There were some delays in payments to consultants partially due to administrative inefficiencies
within the implementing unit.
5.3.2 RHD support for the CCDB helped facilitate resettlement issues to be resolved within
reasonable time limits.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 The total project estimated cost, including the original and supplemental credits, was USD
352.15 million. The actual costs at the end of the project were USD 343.52 million, about 97.5%
of the estimated total cost when the project costs were estimated in 1999 when the supplemental
credit became effective.
5.4.2 The estimated project baseline cost for the original project alone was USD 231.04 million,
for which the actual baseline expenditure was USD 244.67 million. The IDA funded estimated
amount for the original project was USD146.8 million. A supplemental Credit of USD 80.00
million equivalent was approved on May 11, 1999 for rehabilitating flood damaged project and
non-project roads, increasing the original credit of USD 146.8 equivalent to USD 226.80 million
equivalent. At credit closing, USD 210.22 million had been disbursed (92.7% of the total
estimated credit), of which USD 67.48 million were disbursed from the supplemental credit.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The project's sustainability is deemed as likely.
The project's sustainability is likely primarily not only because of the achievements in physical
works (rehabilitation and maintenance) but also in the institutional strengthening that should
facilitate the government's continued and strong commitment to the development and maintenance
of the road assets. Modem road planning and management systems, supported by a more efficient
implementing agency; use of systematic information and data collection and monitoring on a
timnely basis; use of HDM model for planning; experience in fostering local engineering and
construction industry; and focus in integrating road safety measures, are already in place or
substantially established. These elements and the government's capacity will be further supported
and strengthened through the institutional development component (IDC 3) under the follow up
project (RRMP 3), that builds on the considerable progress made under IDC2.
6.1.2 Specifically, attention is warranted in these following areas to ensure that the project
benefits are sustainable over the medium to long term.
a.    Maintenance: There would be need for continued commitment of GOB resources for
maintenance (Taka 50 crore allocated in March 2000), while at the same time, the progress
already made in strengthening institutional capacity within RHD to effectively implement the
- 10 -



maintenance programs. Also increased delegation of some of the supervision of the works must
be made to private consultants. Special attention would need to be paid to the continued support
and staffing of the HDM cell in preparing road maintenance and preventive maintenance plans.
b.    Sustainable Funding for Maintenance: Though recurrent budget for periodic maintenance
from GOB has increased recently, the establishment of a Road Fund linked to user charges, with
the ultimate objective of setting up an independent National Roads Board, should be considered
seriously, as a way of ensuring assured funds towards maintenance of the road assets. The Board
and the Roads Fund would also strengthen the sustainability of some of the outcomes under the
IDC including enhancing the development of the local construction industry (through larger and
more predictable contract packages), and enable user and private sector participation in roads
management (through representation in the Roads Board), thus ensuring accountability. The
Bank team organized a seminar on Roads Management and Financing (Nov. 1998) bringing in
experiences of Ghana, Zambia, UK and other South Asian countries. While the Road Fund was
an acceptable and even welcome concept, there remains significant resistance within the
government to establishing a Roads Board. This issue will need continued follow up and up-front
conditionalities in future projects for long term sustainability of the assets.
C.    Reorganization of the RHD would continue into the IDC3 and be completed under it.
Though retrenchment of large numbers of staff was not particularly highlighted as an issue under
IDC 2 or IDC 3, the issue of skills mix, particularly tc, ensure adequate and timely recruitment to
replace retiring staff at the appropriate levels is important for long term efficient functioning of
the department.
d.    Institutional preparedness for dealing with emergency flood situations promptly and
systematically. In the medium to long term, built-in design factors to ensure greater integrity of
the road network when subjected to periodic floods wculd be critical.
e.    Safety:      Further advancements and the sustainability under the safety component
would depend upon continued financial and institutional support for the functioning of NRSC, and
its coordination with relevant agencies (including the RHD, BRTA, BRRL, LGED and police).
The Draft Road Transport Act would need to be revised and implemented; incentives and
measures to enforce traffic laws must be strengthened. At the same time, continued awareness
building and community support to reduce accidents would be required.
f.    Axle Load Limits:   The overloading of pavements beyond the legal axle load limit on
certain completed roads section is a critical issue in as far as the sustainability of the project roads
is concerned. The importance of immediate enforcement of axle load limits has been emphasized
several times during project implementation and Rl[D under the ongoing RRMP-3 project is
taking appropriate measures for the operation, management and monitoring of axle load control.
With a view to enforcing axle load limits more vigorously, RHD/MOC has decided to set up three
weighing stations on an experimental basis at three strategic locations.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The underlying basis for a sustained periodic maintenance and road safety program is already in
place and will be further strengthened through the IDC 3 under the current RRMP 3 project that
- 11 -



highlights maintenance of the road network as the principal focus of RHD and provides a
concerted focus for road safety. DFID financing of IDC 3 will continue and is expected to
consolidate capacity building and institutional reform within the RHD and extend links upward to
the MOC as well as to zones operating under RHD. HDM 4 model that is being developed in
collaboration with the University of Birmingham will further enhance the capacity of the RHD to
plan and develop rehabilitation and maintenance plans. The IDC 3 has also been designed to
focus on strengthening the factors for increased safety and will actually implement specific safety
projects identified under IDC 2 safety sub-component.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
7.1.1 Project Identification and Preparation. The Bank's performance in identifying, preparing
and appraising the Project was satisfactory. The Bank staff identified and prepared a project that
was consistent with the country's transport sector strategy and the Bank's CAS. The project
focused on the growing need for improved road network in the western part of the country; and
on the transport sector's need for an integrated program for road construction, modernization,
rehabilitation and maintenance. Of special importance were (i) the multi-phased institutional
development component, geared toward creating an effective road administration system,
equipped with modem technical skills and methods of operation; (ii) the incorporation of safety
as an integral part of road related work. The project was comprehensively prepared by a highly
experienced team and built on the earlier RRMP-I project financed by IDA, expanding the
objectives and scope of RRMP 1, designed to support the Road Master Plan and the technical
assistance provided under RRMP-I. The selection of road segments for rehabilitation and
maintenance of the RRMP 2 was based on the Road Master Plan. In response to requests from
the GOB for strengthening institutional capacity, ODA agreed to finance a substantial institutional
development program under the project.
7.1.2 During the preparation process, the Association's counterparts were fully involved in every
aspect of project preparation. Inputs in the form of grant financing as well as expertise was
secured from several donors, in particular DFID and Norway for assistance in the institutional
strengthening process. Based on the previous project (RRMP 1) and other Bangladesh projects,
the Bank team assessed the need for an extended institutional strengthening component, with
assistance in procurement, financial management, information, computerized systems, and brought
in appropriate experts to assist in all of these areas. The institutional component was designed to
provide the follow up necessary to sustain momentum over a long term. Though ambitious,
several important elements of the component were achieved. Early involvement of an NGO, the
Christian Commission for Development (CCDB), even during the project identification phase for
planning and implementing the land acquisition and resettlement under the project, enabled
expedient and almost thorough fulfillment of the resettlement issues. CCDB was also responsible
for preparing the RAP in 1994.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 The project supervision work was highly satisfactory. A 1998 QAG review of supervision
of Bank projects selected this project as one of the top 28 projects picked out of the 200 projects
reviewed, and rated as a "best practice" example of building effective collaboration between the
- 12-



borrowing agency, suppliers and consultants engaged in implementation and Bank staff.  In
particular the following features of the project supenrision was highlighted: (i) the strong and
effective focus on institutional development, in particular in strengthening local contractors (ii)
excellent progress of the civil works.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1 The Bank staff performance overall is rated as satisfactory for reasons mentioned above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1        The borrower's performance in reviewing the project proposal with respect to
technical, economical and implementation was satisfactory. The rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works on national, regional highways and type A feeder roads were selected based
on economic evaluation, which was found justifiable and acceptable. The selected project roads
were of high priority and had deteriorated to the extent that the major repair needs were beyond
the institutional, financial and technical capacity of RHD. The borrower's performance in the
execution of the institutional development program particularly in strengthening RHD's planning
and HDM capabilities, officer and staff training, improve data collection and use, enhance quality
control of works, instill better work practices, and improve environment for and capabilities of
local contractors, and planning and economic capabilities of the Roads was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 GOB's performance during implementation can be considered satisfactory. The availability
of GOB counterpart funding was timely and adequate and this greatly helped in smooth execution
and timely completion of the civil works. The borrower also showed its firm commitment to the
implementation of the institutional development coimponent by providing its assistance and
support to the formation of a permanent HDM unit in RHD; a planning cell in RRTD; the
establishment of the NRSC under the MOC; and assigning sufficient qualified staff to these units.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 In general, the implementing agency's performance can be rated as highly satisfactory, in
view of the fact that the civil works completed were of satisfactory quality and despite initial
delays ,the project succeeded in completing all physical targets within the approved costs. The
modality for the implementation of the civil works and institutional development component of
the project with clearly defined roles worked very well and contributed substantially to timely
completion of the project components. The implementing agency complied with the IDA guideline
on procurement and disbursement though there were some delays in submission of audit reports.
The performance of the contractors and consultants, closely monitored by RHD was found to be
generally satisfactory. At the initial stage quality control works was mostly done by the
consultants, however as RHD staff became trained, this responsibility was gradually taken over
by the RHD staff and was satisfactorily performed with assistance and advice from the
consultants.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 The overall borrower's performance can be considered as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
- 13-



8.1 Client ownership and Partnership:  The successful implementation of this rather large
project owed substantially to effective partnership between the client counterparts and the
Association. Resources to support continuity of experienced staff through the entire project
cycle, and continual interaction among Bank staff and stakeholders helped build the partnership.
Adequate IDA resources in terms of staff and time was important in ensuring quality preparation
and supervision of the project.
8.2   Commitment and dynamic direction of the implementing agency: The implementing
agency consisted of dedicated staff, willing and able to learn from exposure to new technical and
management systems. Key factors underlying the excellent disbursement and timely completion of
civil works, is the dynamism and absence of bureaucratic inertia of the project director and his
team.
8.3   Project Implementation:  The practice adopted under the project in commencing the
bidding process for civil works before the start of the project, and finalizing the appointment of
the supervision consultants before Credit approval, helped in avoiding inordinate delays and
facilitating effective project implementation. For speeding up the procurement process, there
would be need to streamline the procurement systems.  The current practice of passing
procurement decisions through the RHD COP (Committee on Procurement) and the
Inter-ministerial Procurement Committee causes delays that should be overcome by a more
centralized procurement clearing mechanism.
8.4   Development of an efficient construction industry:   One of the positive
outcomes of the project was the development of the large local contractors in Bangladesh. These
contractors were given reasonably sized contracts that provided them the right incentives to
demonstrate high calibre performance. The performance of contractors in the smallest category
(<Taka 10 million) continues to to be generally poor, particularly in terms of time. It is
recommended that in future projects, the contract sizes for small works should be larger and
performance based. A strategy to help promote efficiency among small scale contractors, training
and equipment support should be continued, while at the same time, contract sizes should be
gradually increased. A problem that is highlighted as a constraint to small contractor performance
is inadequate mechanized equipment with individual contractors who mainly operate on a
piecemeal basis, despite some relief from reduced import duties on most construction equipment.
Nor are the equipment available in sufficient quantities or quality with the RHD or its divisions.
There are current efforts to examine interim measures such as creation of an equipment pool
under the RHD, operated on commercial principles hiring out equipment to FIDIC type
contractors. However, the ultimate goal must be to have most of the equipment in the private
sector.
8.5   One area for attention and dialogue in future IDA engagements in the roads sector, is that
of sustainable maintenance funding through the establishment of a Roads Fund linked to user
charges, with the ultimate objective of setting up an independent National Roads Board.
Establishing a Roads Fund would enable large, predictable contract packages that would provide
the right incentives to the local construction industry to participate and perform more efficiently,
and to invest in construction equipment. As in other countries, the Board would have significant
- 14 -



representation from private sector and road users, have an independent chairperson, and would be
empowered to manage the fund and be accountable for the use of the Fund. The Bank team's
preliminary efforts, including a seminar on Roads Management and Financing (Nov. 1998)
bringing in experiences of Ghana, Zambia, UK and other South Asian countries, brought support
for setting up a Roads Fund in principle, but not for establishing a National Roads Board. This
issue will need continued dialogue and up-front conditionalities in future projects.
8.6  Discontinuation of Form 2911 and introduction of a new contracting system for small civil
works (linked to Joint Registration System of contractors), would also have a positive effect on
development of local construction industry. The effects would be felt once the new system
becomes operational, after clearance from the cabinet. Clearance from relevant ministries
(Communication, Law) have already been obtained.
8.7   Systems within RHD for managing emergency works:  Floods are a recurring annual
phenomenon in Bangladesh causing severe and costly damage to physical infrastructure, cutting
off access to many parts of the country. It is important for the government to be prepared for such
emergencies, ensuring access of critical commodities and services to flood affected areas and to
be able to start rehabilitation works immediately, while having a system for periodic maintenance
of the road infrastructure so that the damages are minimized.
8.8   Standardization of Bidding Documents:  Each road division of the RHD should have
standardized formats to record damages and assess item wise quantities and cost for immediate
temporary restoration and final restoration of each road within a week's time of the floods
occurring so that the government would be in a position to start rehabilitation works, seek
assistance from external donors if necessary.
8.9   Road Safety: Implementing a road safet program is a difficult and long term process,
involving multiple stakeholders(governmental and non-governmental agencies, communities/
community based organizations) requiring awareness of safety issues, ownership and commitment,
effective institutional mechanism for coordination, and adequate funding. Sustained strengthening
of the NRSC would be necessary to ensure that the safety sub-component in RRMP 3 leads to
concrete outcomes in the form of policies and physical measures. To improve road safety GOB
should adopt the following guidelines: (i) carry out road safety audits at the planning and design
stage of road rehabilitation works; (ii) implement the road safety action plan with clear priorities
identified, involving all concerned stakeholders frompublic, private, communities and NGOs, and
(ii) GOB to commence implementing remedial measures at accident black-spots on major roads
on priority basis.
8.10  Quality of Works:  Careful supervision of contractor performance is needed to assure
adequate quality of works, with payments tied to fulfilling the quality requirements. The
performance of the RHD Contractors varied fromi poor to satisfactory. In general, they did not
adhere to strict quality control, planning and timely completion of works. In implementing their
normal non-emergency operations, it is important for RHD to emphasize strict quality control,
planning, scheduling and timely delivery of civil works with their contractors so that eventually a
strong core of efficient contractors emerge to deal with emergency and non-emergency situations.
- 15 -



8.11  Land Acquisition and payment of compensation:  Early action on the preparation of
land acquisition action plan, simplified compensation procedures, and timely compensation
payment to entitled persons can substantially reduce the project completion time.
8.12 Partnership with other agencies: Effective partnership with external agencies such as
DFID and ADB was instrumental in defining/improving project scope and expediting project
implementation.  The Bank team and ADB worked with the GOB and had clear upfront
agreements on their respective areas of focus in implementing the Road Master Plan. DFID
financed the institutional development component (IDC) of the project, and has extended further
assistance for IDC 3 under the follow on project (RRMP 3). For components that are either high
risk or that require medium to long term assistance (such as institutional reform), partnership with
other development agencies with clear demarcation of responsibilities considerably increases
leverage and provides for sustainability of the component.
8.13  Axle load control: With a view to ensuring the integrity of road networks, the vehicle
overloading and axle load control is an issue of major concern, This needs coordinated efforts
from all concerned agencies in both public and private sectors . The Borrower needs to review its
legislation and take appropriate measures in providing adequate institutional, financial and
commercial arrangements to ensure effective enforcement of axle loads.
8.14  Low cost erosion protection on road batters:   Under the RRMP2 and the flood
damage relief works, gabion mattresses were constructed to protect the road batters from flood
waves. However, the coverage was limited to selected road sections due to the high costs of
construction at Taka 7-12 million per km. In the absence of such protection, it was found that
sections of R4 were affected by the 1999 floods. However, parts of the road network that were
close to embankments covered by bushes were much less affected, and in fact, protected by the
bushes. Therefore, a low cost option of planting bushes on the edge of embankments should be
encouraged.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
Please see Annex 8 for Borrower/implementing agency comments
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from DFID were sought but none received so far.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Framne Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projeted _ri last PSR                 ActualLatest Estimate
(a) At least about 270 km of the national and                               Activity completed.
regional road network rehabilitated and
widened to good condition by August 1998;
(b) At least about 1120 km periodic road                                    Activity completed.
maintenance (asphalt overlays) of the
national, regional and Feeder Roads A
network to good condition by August 1998;
(c) Awarded at least 9 road                                                 Activity completed.
rehabilitation/widening contracts and 16
perodic road maintenance (asphalt overlays)
contracts to promote contractors through
Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) by
June 30,1997.
(d) establish RHD's capacity to carry out                                   Activity completed.
ICB for road works and competitive selection
of consultants by June 30, 1997.
(d) Carry out institutional development                                     Activity completed.
training in management, planning and
selected technical areas equivalent to at least
150 staff-weeks by August 1998, including
(i) establishment of a road management unit
(HDM Cell)
Output Indicators:
Indlcator/Matrix                   Projected it last PSR                 Actuai-tst Estimate
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Poect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent) ______________
Estimate      E              Appraisal e
Project Cost ByftComitLporLnt         US$ million    US$ million
Rehabilitation                                       64.30          80.50           125.2
Widening                                             23.62           19.00            0.8
Periodic Maintenance                                109.25         110.65           101.3
Preparation/Implementation Support                   15.73           16.38          104.1
Institutional Development                            10.40           10.40           100
Misc. (Land Acquisition, Staff Incentives, Vehicle)   7.74           7.74            100
Restoration of Damaged Roads and Bridges             93.62          73.30            78.3
Consultant Services for Flood Damaged Work            7.28           5.80            79.7
Total Baseline Cost                                 331.94         323.77
Physical Contingencies                               0.59           0.65             1.1
Price Contingencies                                 19.62           19.10           0.97
Total Project Costs            352.15          343.52
Total Financing Required            352.15          343.52
Project Costs reflect the costs of the original credit and the supplemental credit combined. The appraisal
estimated costs are as of May 19, 1999 when the supplemental credit was signed.
ect Cosanements APraisal Estimate US$ million e uivalent  _
Procurment Methdd
Expenditure Category      1GB           N            Other        NBF        Total Cost
1. Works                    217.39         93.62         0.00         0.00         311.01
(131.07)      (73.27)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (204.34)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00          0.00          2.03         2.03
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         22.46          9.08        31.54
(0.00)       (0.00)       (22.46)       (0.00)       (22.46)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          7.03         7.03
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00        (0.00)
Total                     217.39        93.62         22.46         18.14       351.61
(131.07)      (73.27)       (22.46)       (0.00)      (226.80)
See note above for date of estimated project costs.
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (ActualLatest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
Expenditure Category                                         Procurement M dal Cost
1. Works                     99.51        156.17        27.78         0.00        283.46
- 18 -



(79.61)        (915.93)      (12.50)         (0.00)       (188.04)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           22.18          8.40          30.58
(0.00)         (o.00)        (22.18)         (0.00)       (22.18)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           7.30          7.30
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (j.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         ((.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        99.51          156.17          49.96          15.70        321.34
(79.61)        (95.93)        (34.68)        (0.00)        (210.22)
Credit 2638-0 and 2638-1 combined.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            ActuaVLatest 1sfimate        -
IDA       Govt.     CoF.       IDA       Govt      CoF.    IDA   Govt  CoF.
Rehabilitation/Widening  75.70      32.44      0.00      79.61      19.90     0.00    105.2  61.3   0.0
Periodic Maintenance     55.37      53.88      0.00      49.79     60.85      0.00     89.9   112.9   0.0
Preparation/Implementatio   15.73   0.00       0.00      16.38      0.00      0.00    104.1   0.0    0.0
n Support
Institutional Development    0.00   0.00       9.08      0.00       0.00      10.40    0.0    0.0   114.5
Miscellaneous             0.00      9.06       0.00      0.00       5.30      0.00     0.0   72.0   0.0
Flood Damage             73.27      20.35      0.00      58.64      14.66     0.00     80.0   72.0   0.0
Services for Flood Damage    6.73   0.00       0.00      5.80       0.00      0.00     86.2   0.0    0.0
- 19-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
TABLE 1
Rehabilitation Component: Summary of Economic Evaluation
APPRAISAL                  COMPLETION
Length   Cost   NPV   ERR    Revised  Revised  ERR
km      Mill    Mill            Length  Cost
Tk      Tk
Dasuria-   39       588     288    27.8    40.2    723.9   19
Natore
Natore-    36.5    495      77      16.4    36.5    242.9   17
Rajshahi                                   I
Rajshahi-  44       524     145    20.4    41.9    670.4   16
Nawabganj
Rangpur-  34.5    336       178    22.2    33.64    726.5   52
Saidpur                                            I
Saidpur    8        184     83     17.2    9.78     226.1    NA
by-pass           _
Natore by-  5.9     314     210    18.9    5.97     471.3    NA
pass
TABLE 2A
Periodic Maintenance Component: Summary of Economic Evaluation
| _________ _______ _    APPRAISAL
Length  Cost     NPV      ERR
km     Mill      Mill
Taka     Taka
Jhenaidah -Khulna       108    357       1093     91.9
Faridpur-Barisal        126.8  547       575      36
Rangpur bypass          7.4    43        37       40.2
Saidpur Beldanga        23      95       68       24.3
Navaran-Bhetkali        99      296      84       20.1
Rangpur Kurigram        32      93       77       38.9
Paleshbari-Gaibandha    21      63       18       17.2
- 20 -



TABLE 2:B
Periodic Maintenance Component: Sumamary of Economic Evaluation
COMPLETION
Length      Cost        ERR
km         Mill Taka
Jhenaidah-Jessore               106.5       461.3       130.00
Jessore-Khulna                                          98.0
Navarone Sarkira                49.6        283.0       14.0
Sarkira- Kaliganj                           _           12.0
Faridpur- Bhanga                51          237.2       44.0
Bhangra-Takerhat                                _       26.0
Takerhat- Mostafpur             73.4        288.3       28.0
Mostafpur-Barisal                                       33.0
Saidpur-Beldanga                83.2        232.6       54.0
Rangpur bypass                                          79.0
Rangpur - Kurigram                                      46.0
Palashbari- Gaibanda                      _             28.0
Table 3
This report shows total economic benefits using the following:
Discount rate: 12.00%
Analysis Mode: Analysis-by-Project
Alternative: Rehabilitation vs Alternative: Base Option
(Taka millions)
Increase in Road Agency Costs
Savings  Savings  Savings Reductio   Net      Net
Capital Recurren  Special  in MT    in MT   in NMT    n in   Exogenou Economic
t               VOC    Travel  Travel &  Accident s Benefits Benefits
Time  Operatin   Costs             (NPV)
_ Costs   g Costs                  I
Undiscount 7,299.23   5.48     0.00 34,525.5 3,168.84 6,473.40     0.00     0.00 36,863.0
ed      I                 I                1                                             1 4
Discounted 2,713.06   0.70     0.00 5,647.36_ 523.18 1,081.29      0.00     0.00 4,538.07
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) = 28.7% (No. of solutions = 1)
- 21 -



Table 4
This report shows total economic benefits using the following:
Currency: Taka (millions)
Discount rate: 12.00%
Analysis Mode: Analysis-by-Project
Alternative: Periodic Maintenance vs Alternative: Base Option
Increase in Road Agency Costs
Savings  Savings  Savings Reductio   Net       Net
Capital Recurren  Special  in MT    in MT   in NMT    n in   Exogenou Economic
t               VOC    Travel  Travel &  Accident s Benefits Benefits
Time   Operatin   Costs            (NPV)
Costs   g Costs
Undiscou  -615.58     0.83     0.00 12,428.8  970.23       0.00     0.00     0.00 14,013.8
nted     _ _ _ _   _ _  __6                                                              4
Discount    42.87    -1.10     0.00 2,795.83   218.14      0.00     0.00     0.00 2,972.20
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) = 66.6% (No. of solutions = 1)
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performanc Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation   Dcvelopmcnt
Month/Year   Count             _pecalty                         Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/88                        2   EG(2)
06/89                        2    EG (2)
10/89                        2   EG(2)
03/90                        2   EG (2)
08/90                        5   EC, EG(3), FMS
08/92                        6   EG (4), EC(2)
12/92                        4   EG (2), EC, FMS
04/93                        9   EG (5), EC (2), RS, FMS,
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/94                        5   EC, EG, DS, RS, SS
Supervision
05/96                         6   EG (3), RS, TS, FA                    S               s
09/96                         6   EG (3),TS, RS, FA                     S               S
03/97                         6   EG (3), TS, RS, FA                    S               S
11/97                        6   EG (3), RS, DS, FA                     S               S
06/98                         6   EG (3), RS, DS, FA                    S               S
12/98                        6   EG(3), RS, DS, FA                      S               S
07/99                         6   EG (3), RS, DS, FA                    S               s
12/99                        6   EG (3), RS, DS, FA                    S                S
02/2000                       6   EG (3), RS,DS, FA                     S               S
07/2000                       6   EG (3), RS,DS, FA                     S               S
ICR
12/2000                      6    EG (3), EC, RS ,DS, FA                S               S
EG - Engineer, FA - Financial Analyst, FMS - Financial Management Specialist; OA - Operations Analyst, RS - Resettlement,
TS - Transport Specialist, PR - Procurement, EC - Economist, LC.- Legal Counsel, DS - Disbursement, EV - Environment, SS
- Social Scientist, TA - Team Assistant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                102.8                        294.6
AppraisalNegotiation                       96.2                        283.5
Supervision                              250.88                        501.9
ICR                                       30.83                          64.7
Total                                    480.71                       1144.7
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Financial                             OH  OSU-M  ON  ONA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)          OH f OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Private sector development            0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
E Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
co
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perforimance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
D Lending                                            OHS OS Ou OHU
El Supervision                                       *HS Os   OU  OHU
Ol Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
El Preparation                                       O HS * S  O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             0 HS * s   0  U  0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance                 O HS * S   O  U  O HU
Fl Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Reports
1. Full supervision reports,including Form590/PSR of the project,;
2. Consultants final report on project implementation.;
3. Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement ( Supplemental Credit for Flood) dated May
24, 1999
4. Development Credit Agreement, dated June 29,1994
5. Staff Appraisal Report dated June 3,1994
List of Selected Reports prepared under the IDC
Titl of Report                                                Date
Axle Overloading Study                                        February 1998
RHD Network database Report 1995/96                           May 1996
RHD Road Network Database Report 1995/96 - Volume 1: Main     June 1996
Report
RHD Network Database Report 1996/97 - Volume 1: Main Report   July 1996
Manual Classified Traffic Counts Instruction Guide - English  June 1995
Road and Bridge Economic Modeling System                      September 1996
The Economic Planning of the Main Road Network in Bangladesh  October 1994
Scoping Review for BOT in Bangladesh Roads Sector             October 1995
Accident Costs (Draft Discussion Paper)                       July 1998
Vehicle Operating Costs                                       March 1998
GIS Pilot Study for Road Sector in Bangladesh                 March 1996
Pavement Management System - Guidelines for Design and
Implementation
BRRL Standard Testing Manual - Volume 2: Soils                1997
BRRL Standard Testing Manual - Volume 5: Bituminous Materials   1997
IDC - Quality Manual for Construction Materials Testing Laboratories June 1997
in the Roads and Highways Department - Volume 1A BRRL
BRRL Standard Testing Manual Volume 4: Concrete
Road Maintenance Management                                   September 1997
Project Design Workshop for RHD Mechanical Wing               January 1996
Mechanical Management Review of the Roads and Highways        June 1996
Department - Draft Final Report
Equipment and Ferry Study - Final Report                      May 1998
Road Safety Appraisal                                         February 1995
Road Safety in Bangladesh - Final Report                      August 1996
Manual for Road Safety Audit                                  February 1998
Vehicle Safety and Roadworthiness in Bangladesh               March 1998
Children's Traffic Education in Bangladesh - Draft Report     June 1998
Report on Driver Training and Testing in Bangladesh           June 1998
Report on Road Safety Publicity in Bangladesh                 June 1998
- 26 -



Dhaka Metropolitan Police - Traffic Accident Analysis Annual Report 1996
National Road Safety Strategic Action Plan (Jul '97 - Jun'99 - English
version.
Driver Training and Testing in Bangladesh                   June 1998
Traffic Accident Analysis System in Bangladesh              Jul 1998
Coordinators Report Senior Management Course No. 3S495      September 1995
Coordinator's Report Middle Management Course No. 3M1950CT    October 1995
Coordinator's Report Junior Management (Part 1]) Course 30196  November 1996
LogFrames (Development by RHD through IDC,&                 September 1996
Report on Interim Re-organization of RHD                    June 1997
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Comments
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
1998 Flood Damage Restoration Works - Project & Non Project Roads
Credit No 2638BD
Borrower's Contribution to
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
- 28 -



Ministry Of Conmmunication
Roads and Highways Departmentsecond Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                                        Page 6
of 23
1. Introduction
The Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP-II) has been initiated to improve
the road network of the most travelled roads in the westem part of Bangladesh through more efficient
and effective planning, design and construction of roads and more effective programming, resource
allocation and implementation of road maintenance.
To assist with the work, the implementing authority, the Roads and Highway Department, Bangladesh
engaged as consultants, Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Limited in association with
Bangladesh Consultants Limited and Queensland Transport (the Consultant) or (Supervision
Consultant).
The project area covers all the country located on the western side of the Jamuna River as shown in
Map 1. Significant increases in traffic volumes over the past few years have not been matched by
improvements in the road system. As transport demand continues to rapidly grow, transport
requirements in these two regions and the remainder of the country are expected to further intensify.
The Government of Bangladesh (GOB), in recognition of this, requested the Intemational
Development Association (IDA) to provide assistance in carrying out essential rehabilitation and
maintenance work to the road and highway network. In 1984 the First Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP-I) studies commenced to determine rehabilitation works in the northwest
of the country.
The subsequent proposed construction project has since proceeded to implementation. The initial
phase (RRMP-I) was completed in 1996 and phase 2 (RRMP-II) is the subject of this Project
Completion Report.
The project, the Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP-II) covers
rehabilitation work in the Northwest. It also includes the extension of routine maintenance works into
both the northwest and Southwest. The location of RRMP-II Project is shown on Map-l.
In 1990, the Road Master Plan (RMP) project commenced using Version 3 of the World Bank's
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM3). It was completed in 1992. This Road
Master Plan provided GOB and the Department with an objective basis for planning future investment
and maintenance activities for its main road network.
Other key studies which have had an impact on the implementation of RRMP-II are the Road
Materials and Standard Study (RMSS), the Institutional Support to Road and Road Transport
Development (ADB-TA - ISRRTD) and the Construction Industry Study. In particular RMSS
provides extensive valuable information on pavement materials, designs, standards and road surface
treatments.
A Pre-Investment Study was carried out by Louis Berger International and they prepared the contract
- 29 -



documentation and Bid evaluation for the First Year Program.
The Supervision Consultant (SMEC), then carried these Contracts through to implementation. The
Supervision Consultant subsequently helped RHD to develop a Second Year Program and prepared
contract documentation for the Second and Third Year Program. The 2nd year program was
implemented in 1996 and 3rd year program was then implemented in 1997. The 4th year program
followed contracts being fmalised in the third quarter of 1997. The 4th year program was implemented
in 1999.
The country had a devastating flood in 1998 which was recorded as the biggest flood in last hundred
years. This flood had caused severe damage in road network in Bangladesh. In response to an appeal
by the Government of Bangladesh for assistance in dealing the effects of disaster the World Bank
agreed to provide a supplementary credit to carry out an assessment and implementation of the
restoration works of the damage caused to the project roads of RRMP-I & II and non project roads in
Rangpur, Rajshahi, Khulna & Barisal RHD zone and Sylhet RHD Circle.
Two Consultant firms namely SMEC- BCL-QTL ( while on supervision of RRMP-II ) and
DHV-DDC were requested to carry out the assessment of extent of damage of the roads in all over
Bangladesh. SMEC-BCL-QTL made an assessment of the project roads of RRMP-I&II and non
project roads ( Feeder Road Type A) under Rangpur & Rajshahi RHD zones and DHV-DDC did the
assessment of feeder roads ( Type A ) under Khulna and Barisal RHD zones and Sylhet RHD circle.
Subsequently both the consultants were asked to carry out the design and construction supervision of
the repair & rehabilitation works of all the affected roads. Roads and Highways Department has been
the implementing agency on behalf of the Government of Bangladesh.
2.    Assessment of the Project Concept
Assessment of the existing condition
The Senior Maintenance Engineer organised inspection teams made up of the Maintenance Engineer
with RHD staff of each subdivision. The road condition survey was in two stages:
* Initial Visual Rating; and
* Detailed pavement condition survey.
Topographical Surveys
On commencement of all Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance Contracts, the Contractor was
required to undertaken topographical surveys of the alignment in consultation with the Consultant and
RHD staff who established the Centreline of the road detailed levelling for longitudinal profile and
cross-section were done on the established centreline. From the detailed survey the Consultant fixed
the vertical alignrment to suit the pavement requirements. In the case of the Widening contracts the
connection to undertook a detailed Total Station Survey over a period of three months in 1996 and
detailed drawings were produced. Due to disruption by Civil disorder the survey was delayed on
Widening Contract W4 for a period of approximately one month. The original three month assigned to
survey was increased on institution by RHD in order to complete the works.
Traffic Survey
- 30 -



The HDM/PMS Specialist made an assessment of traffic volumes and traffic composition using the
BROF Road Information data base. Because of the age and unreliability of this information additional
counts were requested. These traffic counts have been arranged by IDC as part of their training
process for RHD personnel. Counts were carried out for RRMP-II solely in February 95, other
RRMP-II roads were counted in August 1995 as part of the pilot /trial series of counts and most of the
other RRMP-II roads were counted in the national traffic count program taken from December 95 to
April 1996. over a period of years development has taken place and some count stations have been
moved away from now urban areas. This means Ihat counts on these roads are not comparable even if
they were done at the same time of year so growth rates cannot be estimated.
Specific Testing
Benkelman Beam Surveys
Deflections have been measured with a Benkelman Beam in accordance with standard testing
procedures. The objective of the deflection testing program is to identify similar sections of the road
pavement and use the results as the basis for structural design of pavement overlays and rehabilitation.
The result of the deflection testing was also used in HDM-III together with pavement condition factors
to allow the modelling of the road pavement life. RHID provided the Benkelman Beam, the Contractors
supplied a correctly loaded truck and driver, and thle staff were trained by Consultant personnel.
Dynamic Cone Penetration
Dynamic Cone Penetration (DCP) tests have been carried out beneath existing pavements to obtain an
indication of layer depths and have been used as a means of evaluating sub-grade CBR values.
The outputs of the DCP testing, converted to equivalent CBR values, have been used to design
widened and reconstructed pavements.
Roughness Surveys
Roughness Surveys have been undertaken by IDC as part of their annual roughness testing program.
The roughness meter works on the principle of accumulating the relative displacement between the
body of a vehicle and the differential, and may be linked to a laptop computer.
Trial Pits
Trial pits have been excavated in roads to determine the pavement structure and sample its component
layers and the sub-grade of the roads.
At trial pits, samples of the existing sub-grade materials are taken as requested by the Senior
Materials/Pavement Engineer, and laboratory tests made to determine:
 the soil classification and strength of the sub-grade;
* California Bearing Ratio (CBR) tests; and
* Atterberg Limits, sieve analysis, compaction test, moisture content test.
During examination of the existing pavement properties, observations have been made of pavement
- 31 -



failures and of the probable causes. These records, together with those of the engineering survey teams
and the longitudinal sections, provided the basis on which upgrading design for these road pavements
were made.
Pavement Treatments
From experience gained in the first and second year periodic maintenance programs, the consultants
reservations conceming the suitability of asphalt concrete as a periodic maintenance treatment in the
context of conditions in Bangladesh proved to be correct. Where deflections are in excess of 1.5mm
the likelihood of cracking is very high. This causes adverse comment from the public and
non-technical Govemment staff; and leads to early major deterioration and the formation of potholes,
particularly because there is a lack of early implementation of routine maintenance. The Consultant
considers that the money would be better used in areas where deflections are in excess of 1.5mm, in
strengthening the existing road base with granular material after removal of the existing asphalt
surface and overlaying the regulated base with double coat surface treatment. For less financial input
a strengthened road with a workable running surface can be achieved which is not prone to surface
cracking. Further, this type of pavement if properly constructed will have a life in excess of five years
if regular routine maintenance is carried out, thereafter, further layers of DBST can be used to
continue the life of the road or where there has been increase in traffic an asphalt concrete overlay can
be done indirectly on the DBST surface on the strengthened base which will be less prone to cracking
as the deflections will have been reduced.
Identification of Suitable Treatment - Use of HDM-II
For any of the road sections, HDM-III models the deterioration of the pavement as a function of time,
traffic, pavement condition and structural strength existing at the start of the analysis period. Thus,
given initial values of roughness, potholing, cracking etc, the model, for every year of the analysis
period, generates the current values of these features. The system takes into account the improvements
resulting from patching, resealing and reconstruction undertaken at any stage of the analysis period.
The system gives unit costs for these maintenance options and produces, for each year of the analysis,
discounted costs of the maintenance operations. In this way it is possible to assess and quantify (in
terms of costs) the effect of maintenance altematives and the economic consequence of deferred
maintenance.
A particular feature of the model is the ability to derive maintenance and rehabilitation activities which
are condition responsive. That is, when predicted potholing, cracking deflection or roughness reaches
certain specified levels, the software nominates and cost the appropriate treatment. This capability was
utilised in optimising maintenance strategies.
However, the vehicle operating cost model is not responsive to congestion on the road and does not
take into account the effect of mixed traffic. In particular, the effect of non-motorized vehicles such as
ox carts and rickshaws are not modelled. This means that for a congested road the road user costs are
under-estimated and the strategy of widening the road does not achieve its true benefits. Because so
many roads in Bangladesh have high levels of non-motorised traffic the screening process is not valid.
The costs of congestion can be estimated externally but this would have to be done for each road and
every change of traffic and pavement width. It is hoped that the new HDM Version 4 will model this
situation and give results closer to reality.
- 32 -



Selection for Periodic Maintenance Program
The factors that were taken into account in the selection included the following:
* local RHD management qualitative analysis and observation;
* traffic volume;
* Traffic mix;
* Traffic growth rate;
* traffic volume variations (daily, seasonal);
* level of service;
* congestion;
* HDM analysis;
* effect of non-motorised traffic on HDM operational assumptions;
* accuracy of the various factors and consequent result aLccuracy;
* cost of maintenance activities;
 equitable distribution of projects;
* acceptable contract 'package';
* roughness;
* pavement condition;
* continuation of the rehabilitation of the linkage of zonal and regional roads;
* selection of links rather than isolated road sections.
The development of the third year periodic maintenance program was primarily dependent upon the
availability of funds. This arises because of the following:
* the limited funding of the credit;
* the increased cost of work over what was originally estimated arising from deficiencies in data and analysis
methods;
* increased scope of work from increased deterioration;
* increases in traffic volume and loading; and
* increases in required road standard/classification.
The 3rd Year Program included two major roads initially included in the 2nd Year Program but
withdrawn for possible altemate funding. This proved to be unsuccessful.
The same parameters as used for the 2nd Year Program were used for the 3rd and 4th Year Programs
with an increased effort on minimising the cost to avoid overspending. Bituminous surface treatment
(BST) is a useful and cheaper method of preserving the condition of the road and minimising the rate
of deterioration. However a BST does not provide a decrease in roughness because it follows the
shape of the existing surface. In fact it may increase if large size stone is used. Thus the reduced
vehicle operating costs (VOC) do not occur. If the road is initially rough then an overlay which
reduces the roughness will provide reduced VOC and the overlay may then give a higher economic
return than the BST. In Engineering terms DEIST is a sealing operation to protect the existing
pavement structure but does not mechanically increase the pavement strength.
The flood affected roads under project and non pioject roads needed immediate integrated program to
restore the roads by repair and rehabilitation as were required. This program was absolutely necessary
to meet the demand for road transport in Bangladesh.
3.     The main objective of the Project
- 33 -



The overall objective of the proposed project is to reduce the total cost of road transport on Northwest
and Southwest Bangladesh's most travelled roads. This is to be achieved by improving the RHD
National Highway, Regional Highway and Feeder Road networks.
The project has, through technical assistance and transfer to technology, developed the Department's
in house capabilities and capacity to manage, operate and maintain the country's main road network.
The project complements an Asian Development Bank overlay project which has been implemented in
the eastern half of the country.
Through these objectives, the local constructing industry is anticipated to further develop and RHD
should reduce its dependency on consultants.
The main Objectives of this project are as follows:
(a)  To reduce the transport cost of the passengers and goods
(b)  To minimise the vehicular maintenance cost
(c)  To improve institutional and technical activities in programming and executing the works and
(d)  To upgrade the capabilities of the local contracting industry to undertake the road works of
standard specifications under supervision of consultant.
- 34 -



4.    Scope of Work
4.1 Original Component
Original Component consists of 20 Periodic Maintenance Contracts, 6 Rehabilitation and 3 Widening
Contracts. The details of the contracts are summarized below:
Periodic Maintenance Contracts
Contract            Contractor             Revised                      Location                    Contract Value at        Revised of
No.                                      Length                                                        award             Contract (Tk
(km.)
PI        Oriental - CPC JV.                106.00   Jhenaidah to Jessore, N-1                        458,S80,214.00       463,252,68t
Jessore to Khulna, N-7
P2        IRCON                              49.60   Navaron to Sathkhira, F-7601                     285,948,900.74       283,041,73!
Sathkhira to Betkhali, F-7602
P3        MAH-CHEC JV.                       51.00   Faridpur to Bbanga, N-8                          255,037,360.00       237,221,64(
Bhanga to Takerhat, N-8
P4        MAH-CHEC JV.                       73.40   Takerhat to Mostafapur, N-8                      289,062,388.96       289,057,731
Mostafapur to Barisal, N-8
P5        BDC-NCE-FF Cruz JV.                83.20   Saidpur to Beldanga, N-5                         287,397,017.18       232,359,051
Rangp'ur By-Pass, N-5
Ranglur to Kurigram, N-56
Km. 0+000 to Km 32+555
Palashbari to Gaibandha, R-555
P6        AML - RCL Consortium               63.44   Barishal to Banaripara to Swrupkati, F-8033      243,847,000.76       245,829,39F
Barisal to Thalikati, R-870
Barisal to Bakerganj to Patuakhali, N-8
P7        AML- RCL Consortium                44.42   JhenaidahtoChuandanga, R-745                     220,319,822.50       218,780,15(
Township roads
P8        Monico Ltd.                        71.39   Kaliganj to Kotchandpur to Jibannagar,           252,422,915.00       251,207,08'
F-702:2
Chuadanga to Jibannagar to Dattanagar,
F-7454
P9        China Road & Bridge Corp.         114.91    Dinajpur to Phulbari, R-585                     350,894,120.00       344,879,08.
Phulbari to Birampur to Gobindaganj, R-585
PIO       China Road & Bridge Corp.           84.41    Mokamtala to Sonatala, F-5035                  282,617,031.95       260,231,22^
Mokamntala to Kalai to Joypurhat, R-550
Joypwhat to Hili to Hakimpur to
R-585,F-5503
P11       Mir Akhter Hostain Ltd.             65.80   Rajshahi to Noahatta, R-685                     249,945,900.00        245,705,77'
Noahatta to Manda to Chalimushia, R-685
P12       Ansal - Pubali iv.                  39.50    Shibpur to Durgapur, F-6005                    146,869,868.03        163,570,32f
Iswardi to Bagha to Charghat to Baneswar,
F-6006
P13       BSB (Malaysia) - PBL JV.            47.15    Santhkhira to Bhetkhali, F-7602                221,587,479.86       220,791,26'
- 35 -



P14       COVEC                               62.00    Bogra - Santahar - Naogaon- Chalimushia        172,820,252.00        161,751,90,
P15       Mir Akhter Hossain Ltd.             63.59   Bogra - Natore, N-52 (63.29 kim)                303,587,344.00       272,119,65!
Bogra - Nagarbari (5.00 km)
P16       OSE-CPC JV.                         62.97    Khulna - Noapara - Bagerhat - Pirojpur -       214,579,458.00       213,669,562
Togra
(N7/R770/F7705)
P17       COVEC                               33.87   Jhalikhati - Rajapur - Bhandaria - Charkhali    168,773,279.00        154,669,631
P18       AML                                 30.70   Takerhat - Gopalgonj                            138,583,227.75        138,576,82z
P19       CRBC                                17.34   Gopalgonj - Mollahat (R850)                      70,628,693.00        59,801,88'
Ghonapara - Tongipara (F8501)
P20       CRBC                                25.36    Noapara - Mollahat (R780)                      123,691,888.00        123,691,00:
TOTAL =                        1,190.55                                            332,903,808.75       4,580,207,638.09
Rehabilitation and Widening Contracts
- 36 -



Contractor          Revised      Location and      Chainage of Works      Award Value         Revised Value CMIk)
Length of
Contract
(kin)
Contract
No.
- :37 -



RI       BDC-NCE-FF. Cuz JV.        40.20      Dasuria to Natore km. 12+600 to km.  602,712,260.39     727,917,217.89
52+150
R2       Reza Constuciton           5.97       Natore By-pass                       178,786,379.55     262,587,967.00
R3       Obayeshi - Pubali JV       36.35      Natore to Rajshahi mn. 0+700 to kn.  549,482,148.26     711,093,866.14
37+060
R4       Samwahn - Mir Akhter       41.90      Rajshahi to Nawabganj km. 2+300 to km.    564,609,553.50  753,719,221.71
JV                                   47+860
R5       BDC-NCE-FF. Cruz JV.       33.64      Rangpur to Saidpur km. 0+000 to 47+860    363,682,296.90  476,826,365.75
km.
R6       BDC-NCE-FF. Cruz JV.       9.78       Saidpur - By-pass                    238,356,712.20     239,427,678.00
W2       China Harbour Eng. Co.     29.50      Khulna- Chuknagar                    340,299,241.92      298,474,921.26
W3       OSE & CPC JV.              28.30      Chuknagar - Sathkhira                391,126,102.64      417,591,969.69
W4       IRCON                      34.83      Nawabganj - Sonamasjid               330,420,918.34      418,136,364.00
Total:                                 260.47                                          3,559,475,613.00    4,305,765,571.94
4.21998 Flood Component:
1998 Flood Component consists of 5 Project Road Contracts, 13 Non Project Road Contracts under
Rajshahi Zone, 16 Non Project Road Contracts under Rangpur Zone, 44 Non Project Road Contracts
under Barisal Zone, 25 Non Project Road Contracts under Khulna Zone & 18 Non Project Road
Contracts under Sylhet Circle. The rehabilitaiton works were of acceptable quality and were
completed within the Credit Closing Date.
5.      Supervision of Works:
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Limited (SMEC) in association with Department of
Transport, Queensland and Bangladesh Consultants Ltd. (BCL) were selected as the supervision
consultant for the project. The consultancy commenced on 14 May 1994 and work commence
immediately. the consultancy originally provided of approx 270 foreign man-months and 1090 local
but an additional 90 expatriates man-months and 560 local man-months were agreed in 1996 by GOB
to improve supervision and quality control. The additional expatriate personnel were mobilished to
meet the requirements of the existing contracts in July - August 1996 and contained to the completion
of the second year program after which the Orignal level of manning was sufficient to complete the
third and fourth year work.
The organizational structure for the project is required to permit the project to be executed in
accordance with the joint requirements of the GOB through RHD, the IDA and ODA as joint funding
agencies, the local and foreign consultants, and the contractors.
The majority of the funding is applied to the actual rehabilitation and maintenance work which was
carried out over the whole portion of Bangladesh west of the Jamuna River during a four year period
and covering the following three categories of work:
periodic maintenance;
- 38 -



rehabilitation; and
widening.
Periodic Maintenance (P contracts)
Program                    Southwest (km)           Northwest (km)            Total (km)
First year                                   280.50                    83.20                  363.70
Second year                                  226.40                   304.62                  531.02
Third year                                    96.84                   130.00                  226.84
Fourth year                                   96.50                                           96.50
TOTAL                                        700.24                   517.82                 1,218.06
Rehabilitation (R contracts) and Widening (W contracts)
Program                     Southwest (km)           Northwest (km)            Total (km)
I st year rehabilitation                                               152.09                 152.09
2nd year rehabilitation/new                                             15.75                 15.75
2nd year widening
57 80                    34.83                  92.63
TOTAL                                        57.80                     202.67                260.47
This report considers Completion of the IDA component of the project and not the Institutional
Development Component (IDC) funded by ODA, which is the subject of a Separate Consultancy
Contract.
The organization required and procedures followed to execute this work are discussed in this and the
following sections.
The IDA component of the project is under the control of the RHD's Project Civil Works Director
(PCWD) assisted by the Zonal Project Director (PD) and  the Consultant team. The PDs oversee
RHD Project Managers for each of the periodic mraintenance contracts with support from Supervision
Consultant personnel including the Works superintendents and the Senior Maintenance Engineers.
RHD  also provided the necessary day-to-day supervision personnel for the periodic maintenance
contract except where appropriate staff are not available when local consultant staff were utilised.
Generally RHD have not been able to provide Engineers in sufficient numbers, particularly Materials
Engineer and Technicians, on a full time basis. In future years it will be necessary that RHD overcome
- 39 -



this problem if work is to be properly supervised.
For the rehabilitation contracts the work was under the control of the Consultant's Senior Resident
Engineers (SRE) who oversee Resident Engineers (RE) who themselves each oversee two contracts.
Support has also been given by the specialist Senior Materials and Pavement Engineers (SMPE).
RHD personnel provided a supporting role on the rehabilitation projects especially in removal of trees
and shiffing of utilities.
The widening contracts are structured the same as the rehabilitation contracts with the W4 contract
under the SRE (North) and the two contracts (W2 and W3) in the southwest under the SRE (South).
Coordination between RHD, Consultant and Contractors has been maintained on a direct day-to-day
basis as required. In addition, regular meetings on an approximately monthly basis have been held
with all parties present. At these meetings progress has been reviewed and problems discussed.
Contractors have been able to emphasise mutual problems and this has often led to prompt action
being taken to alleviate their difficulties. The WB missions have attended these meetings and have
taken up issues with higher authorities. Other meetings with WB personnel have taken place during
site visits.
Informal contacts have also facilitated communication and understanding with significant on-the-job
training being transferred by this means.
Each contract has prepared regular reports which form the basis of the contract status reports in the
Consultant's Monthly Reports to RHD. In addition, special reports have been prepared on specific
matters when necessary.
T'he Project has established procedures for planning, designing, programming and quality control in
the supervision of the maintenance works. Procedures were established for assessment of the work
required and preparation of the contract documents for the following year's periodic maintenance
programs under the project.
Each Contractor has provided a fully equipped field testing laboratory for their contract package.
These field laboratories have been utilized by SMEC-BCL and RHD to undertake the testing of
materials, soils to ensure compliance with the specification. The laboratories revert to RHD on
completion along with the equipment in case of maintenance and Rehabilitation contracts. In case of
FDR contracts laboratory equipment belonged to contractor.
Permanent records were being maintained of testing results. Those records were handed over to RHD
on Completion of the Contract.
The Senior Materials/Pavement Engineer established a quality control plan and system for checking
and testing the work and materials. The system continued to be developed and modified as required
during the course of the work. The systems are based on International Standards (mainly AASHTO),
the Specification, and the appropriate Bangladesh Standards.
- 40 -



An agreement was made with both the above mentioned consultant by the GOB for the supervision of
the repair works of the flood damaged restoration work project funded by World Bank to the amount
of US Dollar 80.00 million. This agreement included the assessments on the extent of damages and
preparing the estimates for Govt. and Bank's approval. Preparing the Tender document and inviting
the Bids among the local contractors through the post qualification procedures. Evaluation of the bids
and reconmmending for award of the contracts of non project roads. The project road works were
awarded on the basis of sole source basis as per the decisions of RHD and World Bank.
6.    Design Consideration
Widening Contract
The design philosophy for Widening Contracts has been to check the residual strength of the existing
pavement and to provide a pavement within the widening section of equivalent strength. On completion
of the widening the fill width of pavement is then provided with a 5 cm thick overlay of Asphalt
Concrete.
Due to large increases in Traffic volume and because of overloading pavement thickness increase has
been necessary.
The three Widening Contracts (W2-W4) let in the second year (1996). These cover 96.5 km and were
awarded in January 1996. Due to further increase in heavy truck traffic on the road from the Indian
Border to Nawabganj has led to pavement thickness on Contract W4 being increased. All contracts
were completed on schedule.
Rehabilitation Contracts
Four Rehabilitation Contracts (RI, R3-R5) covering 152.09 km commenced in February and June
1995. The roads were reclassified to National status with consequent increase in required standards
after the Contracts were signed. The two bypass contracts (R2+R6) (15.75km) were let in January
1996 at Natore and Saidpur. All the contracts were completed by schedule.
(a)    Roadway
Based on extent of damage the design and type of repair of the roads including the design of
rehabilitation of the roads were prepared in order to restore the pavement to the pre flood conditions.
(b)    Drainage
The design of the drainage structures to replace the flood damaged ones were performed by the
consultant in order to suit the present requirement for easy flow of rain water through the structures.
7.    Implementation
(a)    Design
The design of road repair works using required thickness of brick sub-base and base course and 38mm
- 41 -



bituminous carpetting covered by 7mm bituminous seal coat has been proved to have merit.
(b)    Length and duration of Contracts
There was no long continuous length of road under repair. It was rather scattered all over the non
project roads ( Type A ) of respective RHD zones. In some of the project roads it was a continuous
bituminous surface sealing by SBST/DBST. Few sections were repaired by removing the top
bituminous surface and strengthening the existing pavement by brick sub base and brick & stone base
course and over it by bituminous penetration macadam with DBST.
The duration of contracts varied on the basis of quantities of works carried out. Generally it took nine
months for the completion of the contracts with exception of structural contracts which took 12
months including the wet season. All contracts were completed within the stipulated time.
8. Road Maintenance Plan
As per the advice of World Bank the RHD has taken up an action plan to maintain the high way on
priority basis every year. This year the RHD has already taken up the maintenance work of few
national and regional high ways to the amount of Taka 700.0 million. This practice of maintaining the
road has in fact started from this year with increasing magnitude of works.
9.    Strengthening the Construction Industry:
Status of Covenants
Financial and other covenants are written into the Development Credit Agreement.
A standard covenant is the requirement for auditing of the Project accounts etc.
These covenants include establishment of an Institutional Review Committee, an HDM unit, a
planning cell in the Ministry, a Chief Resettlement Officer, an environmental Unit, various reports on
program selection, road-user charges, standard contract forms, common contractor registration, etc.
Through the flood damage restoration works the construction industry in Bangladesh has been greatly
developed. The local construction companies have come across the intemational standard tender
document and had experienced of running quality control laboratory at sites. The field personnel were
given training for preparing the works program, materials flow chart, Cash flow chart and to run the
site laboratory. The companies had deployed various type of construction equipment to carry out their
works as per specifications.
10.   Benefits Derived from the Project:
Both technical and financial benefit has been achieved. The totally damaged unserviceable roads have
been restored through standard works to pre flood conditions surface. Thus it reduces the vehicle
operating cost greatly and increases the users benefit. It reduces the vehicular joumey time and thereby
it has increased the number of traffic passengers. Products movement have also been eased.
Institutional development in RHD has been greatly achieved through theoretical and practical training
on the contract documents. It thereby has improved the technical capability of RHD personnel in
- 42 -



respect of programming of works, administration, quality controlling of works and maintenance
procedures. It further offered them the knowledge of how to carry out the repair works smoothly in
shortest possible time under the tender condition provision. The objectives of restoring the damaged
road to pre flood conditions have been fulfilled satisfactorily.
The other objective of this project was to assist: the borrower to improve the local construction
industry and also to improve the executive system of road maintenance system by introducing the
contracting and increasing the capability of the contracting industry.
- 43 -



11.Major factors affecting the Project
The factors mainly affected the progress are as follows:
(a)  Delays due to rains
(b)  Delays due to submersion
(c)  Delays due to inaccessibility to site
(d)  Delays due to hartal
(e)  Delays due to late disbursement of Bank component
(f)  Delays due to procedural delay in allotment of fund by GOB
(g)  Delay in approval of the VO and the contracts
(h)  Delays due to local disturbances
(i)  Contractors own inability to organise and manage the project efficiently
12.   Bank's Performance
For the implementation of the project the Bank management was very co operative and took much
initiation in pushing the project to move. The loan agreement was duly signed in time. Monitoring by
Bank staff on total over all progress was excellent and provided suggestion and advice for timely
completion of the project.
Initially funding by Bank was very good but lately there was a problem from Bank side in disbursing
the loan in time.
The Bank was also initially disbursed the variation orders of the contracts in time. But later on most of
the variation orders were not responded timely and rather much delayed for which the program for
utilising the fund in full had not been achieved and there by a good amount of fund are unspent.
13. Borrower's Performance
Delay in processing the approval of the tender document
Delay in awarding the contracts
Delay in approving the variation orders
Lack of co-ordination and accountability has been figured prominently.
However the Borrower was prompt in disbursement of the payment certificates which has enable the
contractors to maintain their steady progress in works. The Borrower has followed the guide lines on
the procurement of civil works of the World Bank. The Borrower has always provided all the
informations especially the status on work both physical and financial progress.
14.Environment
Deforestation is one of the key factors in degradation of environment. So emphases was given for
protection of planted trees and road side vegetation, turf and bushes from damage to the extent as
possible and undertaken plantation and turfing on completion of rehabilitation and maintenance works.
In the First, Third and Fourth Year Periodic Maintenance Projects, environment impact in the projects
area was beneficial to all concemed as no trees were removed or disturbed and the turf is not well
- 44 -



established along the entire length of 660.89 km.
In the Second Year Periodic Maintenance Projects onily 150 Nos. of trees were removed. However the
quality of road environment improved on completion as trees were planted and shoulders turfed.
In Rehabilitation and Widening Contracts 51487 No. of trees were removed. Trees were replanted in
far greater numbers (approx. 1500 Nos./Km.) than removed and potential traffic hazards were also
removed from the carriage way. Total 4,35,000 trees were planted which improved the environmental
impacts in the area.
1 5.Re-settlement:
Payment of completion to the affected persons to relocate elsewhere and vacation of Right of Way
were the main task of resettlement. A limited amount of land acquisition was associated with the by
pass / realignments under the project. An NGO, CCDB assisted RHD with re-settlement of project
affected persons as per RAP. Cash compensation for land acquisition was paid by D.C's in traditional
process.
Impact related to displacement from Private and Public lands are shown in the Chart.
(See Annexure - II & III).
All the RAP has been satisfactorily implemented. The details are presented in Annex.
16.Key Lessons Learned for future guide
Lessons learned:
16.1   Standardized Bidding Documents
Floods are almost regular yearly phenomena in Bangladesh. The damages and restoration cost thereof
for the Roads Infrastructure are also so vast that the Government has to ask for donors' assistance.
So, RHD should standardize the tender documents (including specifications), pre-qualification criteria
for Contractors and bid evaluation criteria for such aided National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
Contracts well ahead, duly approved by all concerned. This will save lot of time and they will be well
prepared to face the emergency situation and restore the damages more quickly, efficiently and
economically.
-45 -



16.2     Standardized Formats to Record Damages
Each Road Division of RHD should have standardized formats to record damages and assess item
wise quantities and cost for immediate temporary restoration and final restoration for each Road
within a week's time of such devastating floods occurring. The GOB/RHD then can quickly go for
seeking assistance and restoring the damaged infrastructures.
16.3   Performance of Contractors
The RHD Contractors are not used to effective & close quality control measures. They are also not at
all conscious about programming and timely completion of the work. So, RHD should effect quality
control measures, programming and strict adherence to time while implementing their normal works
which will help them build up a well trained group of Contractors.
16.4   Road Construction Equipment
For good quality Road Construction, mechanized equipment are a must but very few Contractors own
such equipment; obviously for the reason that this is not economically feasible for them as they are not
certain that they will get such works. RHD also is not fully equipped with the required equipment for
implementing their normal works. In these circumstances, either each RHD division should be
equipped with required equipment or only Contractors who own the required equipment should be
pre-qualified for Road Contracts and the Contracts should be sizeable to enable the Contractors to buy
them even by installments.
16.5  Steel Wheeled Carts
Spray sealing work on P15 (Bogra - Natore) Road has been damaged by the wheels of buffalo carts.
These carts have narrow steel banded wheels and carry relatively heavy loads. The resulting high point
pressure of the wheels is breaking the stones of the seals and bleeding of the bitumen through the small
stone matrix is evident. In addition to spray sealing damage there is damage to asphalt surfaces
constructed during the RRMP-II project. We consider the solution is to encourage and enforce the use
of rubber strapping to replace the steel bands currently used on the wheels or to replace the wooden
wheels with a vehicle type axle/pneumatic tyre combination.
16.6   Erosion Protection on Road Batters
During the execution of FDR work and the RRMP-II contracts gabion mattress protection has been
constructed in many areas to protect the batters from erosion by wave action during the flood season.
The cost of this work is Tk. 7-12 million per kilometer depending on the height of embankment. In
many areas there is no protection due to the high cost of the protection work. During the flood of 1999
erosion occurred on sections of R4 Road where there was no protection. Adjacent to these areas there
were embankments covered by bushes. These bushes acted to dissipate the energy of the water and
erosion was greatly reduced or non-existent. The planting of these bushes on the edge of embankments
should be encouraged as a low cost erosion prevention measure.
16.7   Contract Packaging Size
The performance of Contractors executing work under the Non-project road component of the project
- 46 -



varied from poor to satisfactory. The performance of Contractors in the smallest category (<Tk 10
million) was generally poor with no concept of timely execution of the work. We consider that contract
packages for this type of work should be larger with a strict relegation and promotion system for
contractors based on their performance.
16.8   Subcontracting
In a number of contracts where the contractors' performance was otherwise satisfactory there were
parts of the work undertaken by unapproved subcontractors as a result of pressure from local groups.
The performance of these subcontractors was uniformly poor. This problem of lawlessness impedes
the ability of genuine contractors to operate their businesses and decreases the efficiency of the
contracting industry. The solution is not simple.
16.9   Time Control of Contracts
For the efficiency of the contracting industry to improve there must be rewards for contractors
performing well and penalties for poorly perforrming contractors. Liquidated damages should be
imposed as a matter of course in the event that a contractor does not complete the work within the time
specified. Extension of time claims need to be dealt with promptly and awarded strictly on the basis of
contractual entitlement, not need. Donor agencies need to be aware of the contractual entitlement of
the contractors in their expectations of completion times for the works.
16.10  Spray Sealing Specification
The spray sealing specification refers to TRL's Road Note 3 for general guidance and gives
application rates for bitumen and aggregates. The rates given in the specification are greatly excessive
and will result in bleeding surfaces. Design of application rates using Road Note 3 in previous and
other ongoing projects has also resulted excessive bitumen application and bleeding. Application rates
for this project have been designed using Australian Road Authority's Sprayed Sealing Guide. The
only bleeding evident is a result of softening underlying asphalt or areas where RHD has carried out
slurry crack sealing. It is recommended that this guide be used as the basis for future specification and
sealing design.
- 47 -



Additional Annex 9. Status of Resettlement Action Plan
STATUS OF RESETTLEMENT OF RRMP - II
Project        Location     Total          No. of     No. of       Achie     No. of         No. of           Status of       No. of        Any              Remarks
of       amount of       legal      legal       veme       house        households       Compensat       household       other
Works      land           owners      owners      nt in       holds      losers among        ion and        losers       informat    (No. of  legal and
acqwred       affected    received     perce      affect      legal owners        other        relocated       ion        socially  recognized
(acres)       (Private    compen       ntage       ed          Any other        Entitlemen                    needed      EPs displaced from
land)     sation                              information           ts                          for       both   Private  and
relevant to                                    clarifica   Public land shown for
impacts                                        tion      clarification only)
Deputy           RHD /         Total
Commissio       CCDB's
ner's           Payment
Payment        (Entitleme
ntt
include
amnount
for hoth
legal and
Socially
recognize
d EPs)
Entitlemen      Payment       Entitle        Payment (TI.)
ts (Tk.)       (Tk.)         ments          Entitlements
(Tk.)      (Tk.)Payment (Tk.)
No of Socially
recoglized EPsTotal
(Col. 2 & Col. 9)
1_
2            3             4           5           6         7              8                 9             10           1I          1213141516171819
RR.MP-11      Rajshahi         144.42        1172         1160        99       541                 424                      15,304,88     14,685,    14,264,16213,118,253
(ongitial      -Nawabg                                                                                                             7         335               29,569,049
works)        onj                                                                                                                                            27,803,588A11
Altemat                                                                                                                                 household losers are
e Route                                                                                                                                      self relocated--
1411313
Natore           60.74         484         468         97        566                251                     27,550,95      26,556,    36,828,31537,322,964
By-pass                                                                                                             5         342               64,379,270
63,879,306AII
household losers are
self relocated-252736
Dasuria            .65          12           12       100         42                 29                     2,586,647      2,520,3    962,366769,2573,549,
Intersect                                                                                                                       13            013 3,289,570
ion                                                                                                                                    All household losers
are self relocated--
4052
Saidpur          51.04         231         231        100        175                145                      8,222,935     8,222,9    4,468,7702,950,16812
Town                                                                                                                            35       691,705 11,173,103
By-pass                                                                                                                                 All household losers
are selfrelocated-
96327
Ghagot            8.35          52           52       100         41                 38                       608,981      608,981      1,959,9991,915,1862,
River                                                                                                                                     568,980 2,524,167
Realigne                                                                                                                               All household losers
d Route                                                                                                                                are self relocated-456
- 48 -



Sub-Total                     265.2       1951        1923        99      1365               887                    54,274,40     52,593,    58,483,61256,075,828
(RRMP-1I                                                                                                                   5         906             112,758,017
- Original                                                                                                                                    108,669,7345332484
works)
Page I of 2
Project         Location of       Total          No. of    No. of      Toral
Works             amount of     legal      legal
land         owners    owners
acquired     affected    received
(acresl      (Private    c
land)     al and
Socially
recogniz
ed EPs)
Entitlemen     Payment      Entitle       Payment (Tk.)
ts (Tk.)      (Tk.)        ments         Entitlements
(Tk.)      (Tk.)Payment (Tk.)
No of Socially
recognized EPsTotal
(Col. 2 & Col. 9)
1  2           3            4          5          6        7        8           9             10           I        1213141516171819
Construction of       24.86        465         456        98     308      275                    26,114,19     25,848,    33,788,59233,554,336
Shibgonj By                                                                                             4         450              59,902,786
Pass                                                                                                                            59,402,786AII
household losers are
self relocated--38503
RRMP-ll
(Additional
works)
Construction of        4.82         50          50       100      37       37                    5,111,666     5,111,6    3,241,5343,241,5348,
Kansat Bridge                                                                                                      66     353,200 8,353,200Ail
Approach                                                                                                                   household losers are
self relocated--50
Stnaghteningof        19.17        587         570        97     322      171                    7,673,790     4,123,1    20,823,04622,608,963
Natore-Rajshabs                                                                                                    94              28,496,836
i Road                                                                                                                          26,732,157Ail
household losers are
self relocated--290877
Straightening of       5.76        135         130        96      74       37                    1,608,917     1,452,3    2,207,5492,062,3723,
Rajshahi-Nawa                                                                                                      77     816,466 3,514,749Ail
bgonj Road                                                                                                                 household losers are
selfrelocated--21156
Dhanidaha              1.00         18          17        94      38        6                      311,698    311,698     2,824,4541,814,4193,
Bridge                                                                                                                    136,152 2,126,117AiI
approach                                                                                                                   household losers are
self relocated--3654
Khulna -                                                    |----    2,684,613240,0002,68
Satkhira road                                                                                                              4,613240,000-5050
via Chuknagar
Sub-Total of                           55.61       1255        1223       97      779      526                    40,820,26     36,847,    65,569,78863,521,624
RRMP-11                                                                                                                  5         385             106,390,053
(Additional                                                                                                                                 100,369,0094351690
works)
- 49 -



Project Total                               320.81         3206         3146          98      2144       1413                       95,094,67       894,41,      124,053,400119,597,4
of RRMP-11                                                                                                                                  0           891             52219,148,070
209,038,7439684174
Page 2 of 2
Imnacts related to displacement from Public lands
Project       Location of Works     Total           Total            Achievement         Total no of            Status of           Relocation of       Any other         Retaks
number of       number of        in percentage    business and other    compensation and       homestead losers     infomrati
homestead -     homestead -           of            establishments      other entitlements                             on
losers          losers           homestead -                                payment                                  needed
(Squatters,     (Squatters,         losers                                                                            for
etc.)           etc.) received    (Squattets                                                                        clarificrti
compensatio     etc.) received                                                                        on
n               compensatio
n (%)
l                2                   3                4               5                   6                    7                      8                 9                10
RRMP-11      Rajshahi-Nawabgo           36               36              100                 2                 Tk. 619,552        All of homestead                    Fig. shown under
(Ongmnal     nj Alternate Route                                                                                                   losers (Squatters,                 col. 3 includes Fig.
works)                                                                                                                           etc.) including 25                  shown undcr col.
indigenous                              6
households are
Self relocated
Natore By-pass          102              102              100                14                Tk 994,613          All of homestead                    Fig. shown under
losers (Squatters,                 col. 3 includes Fig.
etc.) including 26                 shown u-der col.
sweeperd Methor                           6
households ue self
relocated
Dlustia                                                                   10                Tk. 66,334
Intersection
Saidpro Town
By-pass
r3hagot River
Realigned Route
Sub-Total                               130              138             100                 26               Tk 1,680,499
of
RRMP-II
(Original
works)
Page I of 2
- 50 -



Project        Location of        Total          Total           Achievement irn    Total no. of     Status of       Relocation of      Any other         Remarks
Works              number of      number of        percentage of      busmess       compensation       homestead         information
homestead      homestead        homestead-        and other       and other          losers           needed for
-losers        -losers            losers          establishtn    entitlements                        clatification
(Squatters,    (Squatters,    (Squatters, etc. I     ents          payment
etc.)          etc.)             received
received        compensation
compensati          (O/)
on
l                2                3              4                5                 6               7                8                  9                10
RRMP-t1       Construction of         9              9               100                           Tk. 265,744         All of
(Additional     Shibgonj By                                                                                           homestead
works)            Pass                                                                                                losers
(Squatters,
etc.) are self
relocated
Construction of        _
Kansat Bridge
Approach
Straightening of                                                        44         Tk. 3,550,596        All of
Natore-Rajshahi                                                                                        homestead
Road                                                                                                losers
(Squatters,
etc.) are self
relocated
Straightening of       3              3                100                          Tk. 156,540          All of
Rajshahi-Nawab                                                                                         homestead
gonj Road                                                                                             losers
(Squatters,
etc.) are self
relocated
Dhanidaha                                                             13          Tk. 521,446         All of
Bridge approach                                                                                        homestead
losers
(Squatters,
etc.) are self
relocated
Khulna -            50             24               48                           Tk. 240,000          All of
Satkhira road via                                                                                      homestead
Chuknagar                                                                                             losers
(Squatters,
etc.) including
24 households
who were
paid
compensation
are self
relocated
Sub-Total                             62             36                58               57         Tk. 4,734,326
of
RRMP-11
(Additional
works)
Project                               200            174               87               83         Tk. 6,414,825
Total of
RRN4P-11
Page 2 of 2
- 51 -



