Environmental                       ' e
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                      _ __
Report E0044
Bangladesh -
Second Road Rehabilitation
&i Maintenance Project
EA Category B
1 of 2
Environmental Analysis
April 1993
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



* ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS'
-s.;.;  ..    .   .;   .; .   .    ... ,..,  ....   .~.  : :-. -::.- -iYorthe
SECOND ROADJREHA BILTATION AND
MAINTENANCEPROJECT IRM-U .
APR11. 199
.- .:   :-. -  .,..    .    ..  .-:.     ,,    . ;.   .-    .- ..;    .
-..- ..---  . PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESHI-.._
MIIS -TY OF COMMICATIONS
ROADS AND ElGHVVWAYS DIMSION
=:4. -     .y .
*         ~-;    Ntirfi-  -"-Mc;.
Luis BergerItento l,I.
IN Badmai 6ugEOe,MwJmyPI  S
SarAt   Lim..e.                   .            ....         ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..;- .-;.---:,-
~~~-:  -       :             -;.;;.                    . .  .  -  .  -  ;   .
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -    ***.-* ** -  -          M    L - '   - 0*;t@F;.z-  f     
A ~~~~-        .w e 



ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
for the
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION AND
MAINTENANCE PROJECT (RRMP-1l)
APRIL 1993
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
ROADS AND HIGHWAYS DIVISION
Prepared By:
Louis Berger International, Inc.
100 Ha}ed &rW ESD Orm0, New Jmey 0719 - UA
Sarm Associates Limited
MA Mo*hs C _mmI Am - Dbaa iN1 -  _twu"



Executive Summary



ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE PROJECT
People's Republic of Bangladesh
April 1993
EXECUTIE SUMMARY
INTROlDUCTION: The Environmental Analysis of the Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (RRMP-II) presents the findings of an enviromnental investigation undertaken on behalf of the
Bangladesh Ministry of Communications, Roads and Highways Departnent (RHD). RRMP-II is planned
to implement specific road improvements in the western part of Bangladesh and is funded by the World
Bank. The level of analysis is established by the Bank's determination that the project does not require
a full environmental assessment (EA) as that term is defined by its Operational Manual, Directive 4.01.
The project has been designated by the World Bank as Category B within its three-part classification
sybtem. (Category A requires a full EA; Category C requires no environmental analysis beyond that
determination.) The project does, however, require a lesser level of environmental investigation as
defined by the investigation's terms of reference, i.e., a Category B enviroitnental analysis as
summarized herein.
The analysis focuses primarily on five road realignments and town by-passes to be constructed as part
of RRMP-II and assesses other improvements and maintenance activities. Other than the five sub-
projects, activities are confined to existing rights-of-way (ROWs), but road widenings, other earth-
disturbing activities and indirect impacts beyond the ROWs (e.g., borrow pits) will also occur. Improved
access will have a generally positive impact throughout the area.
PURPOSE: The purpose of the analysis is to ensure that khe project options in general and the five sub-
projects in particular are environmentally sound and sustainable and to identify ways of improving the
project environmentally, by preventing, minimizing, mitigating or compensating for adverse impacts.
ORGANIZATION: Although the project has been determined to fall in Category B and does not require
a formal EA, the analysis is organized in the format outlined for an EA by Bank directives, i.e., an
overview assessment of the existing conditions in the study area; identification and assessment of the
potential positive and negative impacts of RRMP-I; analysis of alternatives to and within RRMP-II in
general, including alternative realigmnent and bypass proposals, alternative construction materials and
other details; mitigation and enhancement recommendations; environmental management and training
recomunendations; and environmental monitoring recommendations.
FINDINGS: Potential impact on the area's hydrology is one of the most important topics of potential
enviromnental concem. Earlier projects have had adverse impacts on flooding characteristics. Following
the re-evaluation of RHD's design parameters after the 1988 floods, however, the sizing of bridges and
other drainage structures no longer assumes that planned, but as yet unrealized, flood control, drainage
and irrigation schemes will limit future flood flows. Bridges, ctlverts and other drainage structures are,
therefore, sized to accommodate flood levels under existing rather than hypothetical conditions and
incorporate the best available flood data. As a result of this revised approach, RRMP-II is not expected
to have an adverse effect on flood and drainage patterns; vulnerability of roads to flood damage will be
minimized. To ensure that potential adverse hydrological impacts are minimized, while at the same time
E_uuasM1MAny.i                                                     Peopk's Repbi of Btm,rdes
ScohdRehabii     & Mauuenwe Piojea                           WA F,mdiu Pode Dy Jhe W/U Bank



EzecudJve Smunawy Pag 2                                                          Apil 1993
taking changing conditions into account, the analysis recommends:
*     Monitoring of fooding conditions as they may change over time or become better known.
Although the prject is proceeding on the basis of the best available data and safest assumptions,
changes to existing conditions are likely due to eventual implementation of flood control, drainage
and other schemes and other factors. New information may be generated by Flood Action
Program and its supporting analysis. Monitoring of the situation to ensure optimal sizing of
drainage structures is recommended.
In other areas of potential environmental concern, the analysis finds that environmental considerations
have been incorporated in each stage of the project. Resettlement and cultural resource issues at one sub-
project location (Saidpur) will require resolution; generally, however, sclected sub-project alternatives
are those with the least potential for adverse environmental impact. Nonetheless, in spite of the lack of
significant adverse impact as that term is defined for environmental review purposes, impacts to the
environment, both positive and negative, will occur and a series of mitigation and/or enhancement actions
are reconunended as follows:
*     Integrate Road Improvements with Urban Planning & Commercdal Accomnnodation Actions.
Road development in Bangladesh in general and improvements under RRMP-I in particular have
been successfiul in opening trade and commerce and getting goods to market. Unfortmately,
however, sometimes there is no 'market there in the physical sense. Transport and land use
planning are not coordinated. Physical accommodations for commercial activities are meager.
The effectiveness of the RRMP-H road improvements will be diminished by -the overspill of
commercial activity into the roadway and related congestion. It is recommended that the programn
mitigate these impacts by including delineation of commercial activity areas for coordinated
actions with the Ministry of Local Government (MLG), the lead agency for non-transport physical
planning. Coordinated actions are recommended in both rural market areas and urban centers,
particularly Saidpur and Natore. Coordination with local officials will be critical to the success
of these efforts.
*     Increase the Extent of Consultation With Potentiafly Affected Populations. Consultation with
potentially affected populations have been limited, possibly due to the largely remedial nature of
the project thus far, but have been conducted in conjunction with the resettlement aspects of the
project. Opportunities for integration of actions as recommended above and potential impacts on
human settlements in both rural and urban areas (e.g., the Rajshai-Nawabganj Alternate Route
and Saidpur, respectively) make more broadly-based consultation with affected populations
increasingly important. Mechanisms to facilitate such consultations exist at the local level.
Greater coordination with local government officials will facilitate both the coordination of
development programs and consultations with affected populations. Moreover the assistance of
non-government organizations (NGOs) in resettlement will also support RHD in this process.
*     Incorporate Environmental Provisions in Contracts and Speifications.  RRMP-II is
particularly forate that certain pential direct and indirect impacts of the program do not
appear to be substantial issues in practice, e.g., reported practices in regard to the restoration of
borrow pits and construction camps. It is postulated that if this is indeed the case, it is probably
attributable to the fact that these elemens are the subjea of short-term lease arrangements with
propert owners who have a contimning long-term, stewardship interest in the land. To reinforce
ESrcmmDnd Anai-&k                                                  Pepe 1Rep  oF OaMgldeah
Secon RehaWlaumio & Mafrmowie Pr'oje                         WAs Famdbg Pvrm4Ik 37 he W,fd Bank



April J993                                                             Excuijw Sum'ry Pqc 3
this stewardship and to provide for the contingency of its absence, standard provisions for the
avoidance of environmental degradation and encouragement of environmental restoration should
be included in RRMP-U contractor contracts to provide a contracual basis for enforcement.
Specific recommendations are presented.
*     Use Lime Consolidation In Preference To Brick Aggregate. The possible use of alternative
construction materials is an important environmental consideration. RHD has generated some
technical and economic documentation regarding the use of lime consolidation versus brick
aggregate. From an environmental perspective, the indirect impact of increasing the demand for
brick with its atendant degradation of agricultural land (even if temporary), additional air
pollution caused by the burning of imported coal (at best) and depletion of scarce wood resources
(as is currently common practice) to create the brick, in the face of an apparently viable and
cheaper alternative, must be considered questionable. The lack of local contractor expertise in
the use of lime consolidation techniques is recognized. While it is not an mimediate issue under
RRMP-ll because no reconstruction is curtly envisioned, an effort to upgrade contractor
expertise in industry training programs (discussed below) could mitigate the impediment to use
of the technique over the longer term.
*     Continue And Where Possible Expand Tree Planting Activities. Extensive roadside tree
planting occurs throughout the project area, induding areas of tree removal under RRMP-II.
These actions mitigate adverse impacts of RRMP-II and should be continued.
*     Assign Environmental Management To A Designated Office. RHD's organizational structure
does not currently provide a focal point with responsibility for environmental issues. In the
absence of assigned responsibility, follow-up and monitoring of recommended environmental
actions will be haphazard at best. Currently, the office of the Chief Arboriculturist is the closest
approximation of an environmental unit within the RHD structure. It is recommended that this
office become the nucleus of an environmental unit. Responsibilities and staff of the office
should be expanded to include environmental monitoring responsibility, including, but not limited
to tree-planting. Expanded iesnonsibilities would include the monitoring of environmental data
sources (e.g., the flood control projects), enforcement of environmental restoration actions
recommended as part of the standard contract provisions and organization of enviromnental
training programs as discussed below.
*     Initiate Environmnntal Training & Adaptation of Environmental Guidelines for RHD Staff
& Contrctors. As far as has been determined in the course of the environmental investigation,
no environmental training or guidelines are offered to RHD staff or road contractors. Such
activities do occur in other ministries with related mandates, as witnessed by the Guidelines on
Environmental Issues Related to Physical Planning, published by MLG and Environmental
Reference Doi and related materials prepared as a part of the CARE Integrated Food for Work
(IFFW) project which also undertakes road projects. The World Bank has already noted the need
for 'improved techniques and environmentally sound approaches to road construction' by
contractors (Annex 8 of the Aide Memoire following the November-December 1992 Mission),
presumably through institutional development programs, including programs targeted at the road-
construction industry. An envirommental training component is recommended as a part of that
effort, possibly through adaptation of the materials noted and in concert with MLG and others.
FJ3is,w3uaIMLAuElyS1                                               rPk': s & of Rigud-h
s&cod RehaWharm & Mawjce frojea                              WM FimshvW da* 7he Wod Rik



Execuve Suu.my Pap 4                                                               April 1903
A related recommendation, albeit beyond die scope of the environmental assessment, suggests that the
project give consideration to the possibility of recapturing increases in property values resulting from
RRMP-H as a means of enhancing the program, maximizing its economic benefits, and enhancing equity
and fairness in the accrual of benefits. Road improvements and new roads, particularly in urban are.as
such as the realignmenrs in Saidpur and Natore, increase the value of adjacent properties. The situation
presents an opportunity for road improvements to be at least partly self-financing through recapture of
a portion of the value increases. ULand Consolidation Schemnes in Indonesia, for example, have financed
roads and other community improvements on this basis. Consideration of such schemes is recommended.
RE:SETLJEMET  ISSUES:  Population resettlement issues are discussed in summary in the
environmental analysis and in detail by a separate survey and resettlement plan prepared for the project.
Compensation, rather than resettlement sites, are proposed. Unresolved resettement issues exist at least
one sub-project location (Saidpur) and are addressed by a separate Resettlement Report.
A table summarizing recommended actions, rationale and lead responsibilities follows. A tabular
summary of recommended actions by environmental criteria is also presented in the body of the report.
EaI-WraEmAM&                                                         Po pISc RepbUc Of giadeh
Second halihdm & MhgMwmace Projea                            WMiM Fvdbs  vWle&d By Die Wodd Emk



April 1993                                                                 Eracudw Swmwyy Page 5
SllMMARY OF RECOMMENDED ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS
RECOMMENDED                     SUFPORTING                LEAD/COORDINATION
ACTION                      RATIONALE                   RESPONSIBILITY
Monitor existing conditions    Design of bridges & culverts  RHD and Project Consultants.
& best available flood data.    based on actual rather than
hypothetical situation
minimizes the potential for
undersizing. The situation will
l_____________________  change over time, however.
Integrate RRMP-I with rural  Mitigates adverse impacts of   RHD in cooperation with
& urban development          overspill onto roads; eliminates   Ministry of Local GoveInment
programs.                    congestion; maximizes          and Thana engineers and
l_________________  benefits.                                officials.
Increase consultation with   Increasingly important to      RHD and NGOs assisting in
potentially affected         achieve integration of         resettlement, in cooperation
populations.                 development programs.          with Tbana officials.
Incorporate environmental    Provides a contractual basis for  RHD and Project Consultants.
provisions in contracts and  enforcement of environmental
specifications.              mitigation actions.
Use lime consolidation in    Avoids adverse impacts on      RHD assisted by institutional
preference to brick          land and air quality; avoids   development initiatives under
|_aggregat_e_                 depletion of wood. Cheaper.   the project.
Continue and expand tree     Provides renewable resource    RHD as an on-going activity.
ptinng.                      and habitat.
Assign environmental         Ensures follow-up.             RHD.
management responsibility.
Initiate environmental       Minimizes adverse impacts.     RHD assisted by institutional
training.                                                   development initiatives under
the project.
S    RRcomnidatio.hsve als beau nude for the comidenijn of action tD tecapur inaming propey Values a* a m
of eubancingte progam, but definifve reconnedsatsforueh an appoachae beyond die wope ofthe envirnmeua
amlys_s ad ac rmcoead a pan of fiunreconuaiic _sWdia.
Resouti of reamemeu and ptmal acuial reaure _nies for the Saidpura.Shdn AJigmen will also be requid.
See ResettleM Report.
En_mmnmal AnalyjL                                                      Pe-pk'se&pui-bl of5nSudei
Scecd RoS_abiRasia & MVnw_e fije*                               Mi FawdM, pidcd by The Worll Bm.k



Table of Contents



- ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
SECOND ROAD REHABELITATION & MAINTENANCE PROJECT
People's Republic of Bangladesh
TABLE OF CONTENTS
April 1993
EXECUFnVE S1UMMARY
1.0    INTRODUCFION  . ...........................................  1-1
1.1    Context and Purpose of the Environmental Analysis                ................. 1-1
1.2    Terms of Reference for the Analysis              ........................... 1-4
1.3    Orpnization of the Analysis             ................................  1-4
1.4    Policy, Leal and Administrative Context ........................ 1-5
1.4.1 Ministry of Environment and Forest .................... 1-5
1.4.2 Department of the Environment ....................... 1-6
1.4.3 Ministi-h of Communications ......................... 1-6
1.4.4 Ministry of Local Government ........................ 1-6
1.S    Project Description .................................. 1-7
2.0. EXISTING CONDIMTONS ................................ 2-1
2.1    Physical Characterisics ...............................2-1
2.1.1 Topography/Soils/Geology  ..........................  2-1
2.1.2 Hydrology ............. : .................... . 2-2
2.1.2.1 Raishahi Division .......................... 2-3
2.1.2.2 Khulna Division ........................ 2-5
2.1.3 Biological Resources .............................. 2-8
2.1.4 Meteorology &  Air Quality Characteristics .....              .......... 2-12
2.1.5 Noise Characteristics  ............................ 2-12
2.2    Community & Socio-Economnic Characterisics ............... 2-12
2.2.1 Population  .................................   2-12
2.2.2 Economic Structure  ............................. 2-13
2.2.3 Energy Consumptions Characteristics  ......                ............ 2-15
2.2.4 Transport and Access Characteristics ......              ............. 2-15
2.2.5 Cultural Resources .............................    2-16
2.3    The  lRMP Action Areas ............................. 2-16
2.3.1  The Rehabilitation Action Areas  .........              ............ 2-16
2.3.1.1 Rangpur-Saidpur  ......................... 2-16
2.3.1.2 Dasurai-Natore  .......................... 2-17
2.3.1.3 Natore-Rajshahi ........................... 2-17
2.3.1.4 Rajshahi-Nawabganj .2-18..... 2-18
2.3.2 TheOverlayAreas ............................. 2-19
2.3.3  New Alipments & Bypass                t  ...................Pr             2-19
_EWmusuaA4fyls                                                                 Pr esoe R   <e Of 21~
SeCid _ehabu  & maimince PwjCU                                                WM FmiJb Dfj 7h Wi  Sank



TMC Pas 2                                                                     ApI iM
TABLE OF CONTENTIS
Continued
2.3.3.1 Saidpur Bypass .......................... 2-19
2.3.3.2 Ghagot River Realigned Route   .      .2-21
2.3.3.3 Dasuria Intersection    ..2-21
2.3.3.4 Natore Bypass .......................... 2-21
2.3.3.5 Rajsbdhi-Nawabganj Alwxnate Route ............. 2-25
3.0   POTENTIAL    PACTS  ................................. .3-1
3.1   Physical Characteristics ............................... 3-2
3.1.1 Topography/Soils/Geology      ................. 3-2
3.1.2 Hydrology   .................................... 3-2
3.1.2.1 Rajshahi Division .....  3-2
3.1.2.2 Khulna Division .......................... 3-4
3.1.3 Biological Resources ...............................3-4
3.1.4 Meteorology & Air Quality Characteristics . . ...  3-5
3.1.5 Noise Characteristics .     .         ... 3-5
3.2 Community & Sociol-Economic Characteristics ......... ....... 3-5
3.2.1  Population   .................................... 3-5
3.2.2 Economic Structure .............................. 3-6
3.2.3 Energy Consumptions Characteristics   ..3-6
3.2.4 Transport and Access Characteristics    ..3-7
3.2.5 Cultural Resources .3-7
3.3   The RRWP-UI Action Areas ............................ 3-7
3.3.1 Rehabilitation Areas    ..3-7
3.3.1.1 Rangpur-Saidpur .......................... 3-7
3.3.1.2 Dasurai-Natore .3-7
3.3.1.3 Natore-Rajshahi ........................... 3-8.
3.3.1.4 Rajshahi-Nawabganj ......................... 3-8
3.3.2 Overlay Areas ................................. 3-8
3.3.3 The Realignment and Bypass Areas    ..3-8
3.3.3.1 Saidpur Bypass .3-8
3.3.3.2 Ghagot River Realigned Route .................. 3-8
3.3.3.3 Dasuria Intersection .3-8
3.3.3.4 Natore Bypass .3-8
3.3.3.5 Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate  oute. .3-9
4.0   ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES  ............................ 4-1
4.1 Alternatives to Tbe Project .4-1
E£Wen,wuin,mAnulp                                                P-upkag Repbli ofD A-WAh
Skwd RthaIiBan.m & Mairaac hsWYea                               IN Fin Dy Tht Woldd Bo*



APVrU JWJ.                                                                                    TOC Page 3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Continued
4.2    Alternative Rehabilitation and Improvement Techniques  ....                    ..... 4-2
4.3    Alternatives to the Bypass & Realignment Proposal ....                   ......... 4-2
5.0  MITIGATION & ENHANCEMENT RECOMMENDATIONS ....                                          ...... 5-1
Overview  ............................................ 5-1
5.1    Physical Characteristics ............................... 5-9
5.1.1 TopographylSoils/Geology  .......................... 5-9
5.1.2 Hydrology .................................... 5-9
5.1.3 Biological Resources ................5...... 5-9
5.1.4 Meteorology & Air Quality Characteristics ................ 5-9
5.1.5 Noise Characteristics  ............................ 5-10
5.2  Comnunity & Socio-Economic Characteristics  ................ 5-10
5.2.1 Population  .      .................................. 5-10
5.2.2 Economic Structure  ........               ..................... 5-11
5.2.3 Energy Consumption Characteristics ................... 5-11
5.2.4 Transport and Access Characteristics ................... 5-11
5.2.5 Cultural Resources .........               ..................... 5-11
5.3    RRMP-II Action Areas .............................. 5-12
5.3.1 Rehabilitation Action Areas .5.......................  5-12
5.3.2 Overlay Areas  ...........                ..................... 5-12
5.3.2 New Alignnient and Bypass Projects ................... 5-12
6.0  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING  ....                                        ......... 6-1
7.0  MONITORING PLAN .................................... 7-1
APPENDICES:
A. Referens...                                                                                     A-1
1. Documents .A-1
2.  Personal Communications .A-2
B.     Inter-Agency Coordination  .................................. B-1
C.     Sample TOR for Road Contracors Improvement Program  ......                      ........ C-1
FMwunepaA.ahi                                                                  Parkf'rs A&pbC Of BM.AL
Secm.dRhbad_m  & HiAmeRuj he*                                                  NM Fwdh,g By T7h Wo. SW*



IDCfe4                                                                                                Apl 3
LIST OF EXHIBITS
Exhibit Number                                                                                           Page
1.      RRMP-  AcdonArzas   ................................                                              . 1-2
2.      Realignment and Bypass Sub-Projects ........................... 1-3
3.   Wetad Areas - Rajshahi Division ............................. 2-3
4.   ForestAreas .................................                                                         2-7
5.   Urban Hierarchy Diagram ................................. 2-14
6.   Saidpur Bypass .................................                                                    2-21
7.   Ghagot Realignment .................................                                                 2-22
8.   Dasuia Intrstion .................................                                                   2-23
9.   Natore Bypass .................................                                                      2-25
10.    Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate Route.2...........26............                                     2-26
11.    RHD  Organizational Structure ................................ 5-7
LST OF TABLES
Table Number                                                                                             Page
1.  Threatened & Endangered Specis .2-10
2.   Threatcned Animals of Bangladesh .. ...........................                                     2-11
3.  Key Demographic Indicators By Division .2-13
4.  Summary of Recommended Actions                                            .5-2
S.   MitigationfEnhancement Actions by Environmental Criteria .5-3
6.  Recommended Contract Provisions .5-7
uPpk's Rapuc of Bmgiea
Seamd Itabaum A MdmAMMc AnmJru                                                      WM  Fum&*  Dyt ltml Wm"l Bl



1.0 Introduction
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
SECOND ROAD REHABILITATION & MASITENANCE PROJECT
People's Republic of Bangladesh
April 1993
1.0 INTRODUCTION
1.1 CONTEXT AND PURPOSE OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
This document presents an environmental analysis of the Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (RRMP-1I), a World Bank-fumded project for road improvements in the western portion of
Bangladesh. The project is conducted under the auspices of the Ministry of Communications, Roads and
Highways Department (RHD). To facilitate the envirounental investigation process, the World Bank has
devised a three-part classification system. Projects designated as Category A require full environmental
assessments (EAs) as that term is defined by the World Bank Operational Manual, Directive 4.01.
Category B projects require a lesser level of environmental investigation. Category C projects require
no enviromnental analysis beyond that determination'. (Superscripts refer to End Notes at the conclusion
of each section). Environmental analyses are part of project preparation. Like economic, financial,
isitutional and engineering analyses, environmental analyses are the borrower's responsibility, but are
undertaken with the Bank's assistance and guidance. RRMP-II has been classified as Category B. The
terms of reference (TOR) specifying the level of environmental investigation required by the project are
discussed below.
The investigation focuses primarily, but not exclusively, on five sub-projects consisting of road
realigmnents and town by-passes in the northern and western parts of Bangladesh (Exhibit I and 2).
Other than the five identified sub-projects, RRMP-- concentrates on improvements and maintenance
activities in designated segments of existing road network, within the existing rights-of-way (ROWs).
In addition to the five sub-projects and actions within the existing ROWs, however, road widenings, other
earth-disturbing activities and indirect impacts will occur outside the ROWs (e.g., borrow pits). The
environmental consequences of all aspects of the project and related, off-site, indirect impacts are
presented.
RRMP-ll is, as its name implies, a follow-on to RRMP-I which undertook similar activities in the
northwestern part of the country in two phases beginning with the appointment of consultants in 1984.
It is funded by the International Development Association (IDA) and is a companion to a similar program
in the eastern part of the ountry under the auspices of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Additional
project details are provided in the Project Description, Item 1.5 below.
The general purposes of environmental analyses such as this one are to improve decision-making and to
ensure that the project options under consideration are environmentally sound and sustainable; to
recognize environmental consequences early in the project cycle and take these consequences into account
in project selection, siting, planning design and execution; and to identify ways to improve projects
emnvronmenally, by preventing, mmizing, mitigating or compensatng for adverse impacts and avoiding
the need for costly remedial measures after the fact. Environmental investigations can also provide
formal mechanisms for interagency coordination on environmental issues; for addressing concerns of
FJnhVal Anal SiS                                                   Pople's RepuqC of a"Oedh
Swcd Rehabiradm & MakV_me Pwjea                              Wih Fmd1n PwvEdd Dy The Wol B..k



P.c 1-2                                                                                     A4p' I99I
-         INDIA
I-~~~~~r
*N5 
'4hYMENSING
Reiotl Hiwy.    i-                         V / z                 r
^n                          /     >                I N  D I A~~~NbDZ
CKSHAN           Sv 4t;(
RRJI                                                               IN D
~lEboalHewirmm5lIE..eaAaui                                               hepLB U Repbli @1D,dAk
ScmRbid   Ma uwW
R   R  bl =   _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.01
2£*U>><^<|t'4 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ L T
-lllBIT 1                                          RRMPII ACIION ARSA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
ESI  A                                                           Pk'wk<~~~~~~~~~~~~OI
~~~~DSroHod O *Mu_ V/rs         0/  



Aiw 199i                                                                 Par 1-
IN D I A
..AIDPUR TOWN
.i- g aBy- Ss
01OtAJP R    $       >
LEGEND           5 A vAGOT RIVE 6EA LIGE OT
RAJSIIAIIE-    IvX,6 0    I  N O   I A
NAWAUGANJ         .t.            .
ALTERNATE~3 N  A/                              X:  
<  ( >    r-RrD;UR     r        R      ;(
ROT                    .                       C'  I-
ZOn~\.,'^U 8@unao              Scati - 1(
EXHBI  2BY-PASMEE   BYAS  LOAIN
Eum*m.muuLAmuljuf,  \-#e~a R apAtc .tfam,aluik .
uGE,                 J M - JE5  Of                  Fu Fa H G A L  -
Ossric eouneerw ~L N A
_ A~~~~~~~ r                   r                            wG     
_ _  /h_   LEGEN



Pae 1-4                                                                          ApiW 1993
affected groups and local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs); and for building environmental
management capabilities within borrower countries.
1.2 TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ANALYSIS
The nature and extent of the environmental work required in this instance have been detennined primarily
on the basis of an Aide Memoire prepared at the conclusion of a World Bank preapraisal mission in
NovemberlDecember 1992. As noted therein:
'While the Project is not expected to have major impacts on the environment, some
furither environmental analysis is necessary in conjunction with the finalizing the
feasibility study for the rehabilitation component (of the project). The environmental
analysis should exanine potential environmental issues under the project, concluding with
a plan for mitigating potential impacts and monitoring critical parameters during the
project implementation and after completion. It should clearly indicate how the designs
and construction specifications will have envirommental safeguards. Particular attention
should be given to those road sections following new aligznents."2
An annex to the Aide Memoire elaborates and states that:
The environmental analysis should examine potential environmental issues under the
project, including, inter alia, drainage, wetlands, fisheries, trees and construction
materials.' It also states that the analysis 'should clearly indicate how the designs and
construction specifications will have envirommental safeguards, including actions to be
incorporated in construction contracts to mitigate potential oDnstruction impacts, such as
borrow pits and worker camps. Measure to improve road safety should also be noted."'
In keeping with these terns of reference and on the basis of consultations with concered World Bank
officials in Washington in advance of field work, and consultations and observations in the field, a
comprehensive approach has been adopted to identify the direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of all
aspects of the project as will be described in Section 3.
1.3 ORGANIZATION OF THE ANALYSIS
Although the analysis does not constitute a formal EA, it is organized in the format as outlined for an
EA in accordance with the Bank's Operational Direcive 4.01. Me remainder of the introductory section
in hand (Section 1.0) presents the project's Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework (Section 1.4)
and Project Description (Section 1.5). as suggested by Operational Directive 4.01. This is followed by:
-     Section 2.0 - Existing Conditions - an overview of the relevant aspects of the study area,
including the rhabilitation and maintenance areas in general and the five sub-project realignment
and bypass areas in particular.
Secion 3.0 - Potenti  Impacts - identification and assessment of the positive and negative
impacts likely to result from the proposed action.
Section 4.0 - Analysis of Alternatives - a discussion of alternatives to the RRMP-I1 in general,
EqWIId                                                               r,Amay  PuosIepub  of Brmlo
&wd AdkosaUm & Ma_uimme P-uec                                WM F,du Pimdd r Te woWid lw,



A4p, 1993                                                                         P,g 1-5
altenative techniques, and alternatives to the proposed realigment and bypass proposals and
alternatives within the details of the proposed program.
Sedion 5.0 - Mitigationtnnent Recommendatio_ - identification of actions as might
be taken to minimize adverse impacts or enhance positive impacts.
Section 6.0 - Managenent and Training Recommendations. And;
-     Section 7.0 - Monitoring.
Appendices present a list of references, including both documents and individuals consulted in -the
process, and inter-agency coordination.
1.4 POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE CONTEXT OF BANGLADESH
The role of environmental investigations in World Bank procedures has already been noted. In the
absence of such a defined requirement, projects such as RRMP-I do not trigger a need for an
'enviromnental assessment', environmental impact statement or related requirement pursuant to
Bangladeshi law. That is not to say that envirommental considerations would not be taken into account
in decision. The considerations would not, however, be undertaken in a structured or legally prescribed
format. Procedures are generally left to the individual ministries. An enviromnental cell has been
created in the Planning Commission for projects requiring budgetary approval at that level. The
Department of Environment reports that it 'suggests' environmental impact assessments for major
projecs'
At least three administrative entities are of primary interest in a discussion of environmental issues in
general and RRMP-II in particular:
-     The Ministry of Environment and Forest which is the focus of environmental issues in
Bangladesh;
The Ministry of Communicaions. Roads and Road Transport Division (RRTD), Roads and
Highways Department (RHD) which is the proponent of the project. And;
-     The Ministry of Local Government which assumes responsibility for physical planning at the
"thana' (formerly referred to as *upazila') level.
Major activities of potential relevance in the context of RRMP-I are as follows.
1.4.1   Mnirstry of Environment and Forest
In addition to acting as the primary agency responsible for environmental issues in Bangladesh. the
Ministry of Environment and Forest is a permane=t member of the Exective Committee of the National
EconoIic Council, the major decision-making body for ewnomic policy issues and approves all public
investnent projects. The Department of Environment within the Ministry is the technical arm responsible
for environmental planning, management, monitoring and enforxcemet
EmnWuwwuW A-mos                                                    Peqk's Xwub& of Bwem,ak
Seemid..ilug- & M_duimw A 'qie                               WAs FwDfa PsW"d JDy JJs WAS Am*



Pag 1-6                                                                         Apra 1 19M
A National Environment Management Action Plan (NEMAP) has been prepared by the Ministry of
Environment and Fors, with UNDP support. Major environmental problems have been identified in
the areas of land management, deforestation, fisheries, floods, and industrial pollution. A number of
geographic areas have been selected where there is an immediate need for remedial action to address
problems. At present, the Ministry's Department of Environment (DOE) does not have the institutional
capacity to address many of the problems identified by NEMAP and institution-building is the Plan's first
priority. The ADB is supporting the effort.
A National Conservation Strategy is also reported in preparation by the Ministry of Environment and
Forest. The strategy will set out detailed measures to help conserve Bangladesh's natural and biological
resources. Preparation of the Strategy is being undertaken by the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council with financial support by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (RUCN). Main
problems as identified by the Government and donor agencies are increasing population densities,
cyclones, floods and shortages of potable water, global warming and sea level rise, polLution, forest
depletion, loss of habitat for endangered species, and declining fish yields.
The Department's current responsibilities include assessing and monitoring tasks such as on-site
surveillance of environmental improvement components of development projects, promoting
environmental awareness through public information programs, and controlling and monitoring industrial
pollution. Consultations with Deparunent of the Environment officials do not indicate that they are taking
an active role in monitoring RRMP, but are generally aware of it. nhe agency presumably played a role
in the larger policy formulation of the Road Master Plan (RMP) wbich forms the context of RRMP and
may become more actively involved in RRMP if environmental and resettement issues emerge (See
discussion of Saidpur Bypass below).
1.4.2   Ministy or Connuunicatiom
The Ministry of Communications, the proponent for RRMP-II through its Roads and Highways
Deparment (RHD), does not have a formal environmental review procedure. RRM  actions and related
actions have. however been developed in ;he context of the RMP with the assistance of the United
Nations Development Programme (UJNDP) and the ADB. Enviromental considerations were an element
in the development of RMP. Evidence of environmental activities in other development programs in
other ministries has come to light and may be helpful in the development of RHD staff and contractor
programs as will be discussed hereinafter.
1.4.3 Ministy of Local Goverment
The Ministry of Local Goverment, R"l Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC) is responsible for
local government administation. The main burden fall to the 'thanas' which are the principal units of
the local administration system. Eac thana is headed by a civfl servant, the Upazila Nirbabi Officer
(UNO) who is appointed by the government. Decisions concerning mral development have been
devolved to the thana and the UNO assists his offices for a wide range of activities induding education,
health, social welfare, cooperatives, agriculture, livestock and fisheries.'
No evidence of active thana-level involvement in the activities of RRMP, other than resettlement, has
come to light. The Local Goverment Engineering Bureau is, however, responsible for physical
planning, particularly at the upazila level and roads have an obvious impact on both urban and nnra land
6 _ _~uwA-syMtj                                                   Peo'Jk Ispub&c f am#&"
S.cKd RehaIiBmM. A dMaMO APO                                WA Famdbg PmvWad Sy 7he Wal Am*



ApIi 1993                                                                         PaRe 1-7
uses and other aspects of physical planning. Greater coordination between RRMP and the Ministry of
Local Government could work to the bettenrmet of both, as will be discussed hereinafter.
Recommendations will be made for greater coordination between road construction and impact areas,
particularly urban areas such as Saidpur and rural high intensity commercial activity centcrs. As will be
noted, these centers spring up in healthy economic fashion along the roads and are one of the indirect
benefits of the program, but they do so without the benefit of sufficient accommodation.
It is also of interest to note that the Bureau has drafted a document entitled Guidelines on Environmental
issues Related to Physical Planning. The material published by the Ministry of Local Government to
sensitize its staff to environmental issues in the day-to-day performance of its duties, might also serve as
a nucleus for similar efforts by RHD.
1.5 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.5.1 Context
Current RRMP activities are defined within the context of the RMP as noted above. The RMP
incorporates and is based upon the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) as devised
by the World Bank7. It deermined road investment recommendations by defining a basic grid on which
the road network would be developed and establishing a methodology to balance between investment and
maintenance, construction of various categories of roads, bridges and ferry services, rehabilitation and
other activities. To do so, it undertook traffic studies, traffic forecasts, and various technical data
collection, including vehicle operating costs, construction and maintenance costs, and road data including
pavement width, curvature and gradient, structure, etc.
To analyze the network, RMP grouped roads into categories and homogeneous setions with similar
characteristics such as traffic range, pavement type, condition, structural strength, etc. Investments were
defined on the basis of the HDM model to compare options. Economically optimal strategies were
selected for the full network. The options considered construction of new road sections and alignments,
widening of existing pavements, reconstruction within existing alignments to improve rcad standards,
provision of full strength overlays, periodic maintenance options, etc,
1.5.2 Contracting of the Work
It is important to note that once identified and agreed upon, road improvements are executed by
contractors working on behalf of RHD, rather than RHD directly. To provide for those improvements,
RRMP-II is slated to:
*     Supervise the project's civil works components over its four-year life, including the five sub-
projects noted above, approximately 200 kilometers of rehabilitation; 2,000 kilometers of periodic
maintenance and customary routine maintenance.
*     Prepare design, bid documents and environmental and resetlement action plans for the Nalka-
Haikamrul-Bonpara Road, construction of which is needed in conjunction with the Jamuna
Bridge, but which will be addressed by separate environmental investigations at a later date.
And;
E0nWrmmeaIAnabms                                                    P-pkas Xepuc of BgAlAi
Second ehaahU  & Maiman.wjew                                 WA; FWmdM Prnndo4 Nljy Th WodU 20



Pos IJ                                                                          AApr J993
*     Undertake additional feasibility studies for priority rehabilitation and upgrading works in westem
Bangladesh as may be identified during the course of the project.
In keeping with the findings of RMP and subsequent iterations of HDM, other than the five sub-projects
indicated by Exhibit 2 and detailed below, RRMP-JI will be confined in and adjacent to existing rights-of-
way (ROWs) and will consist of two primary activities:
-     Rehabilitation Activities. Rehabilitation actions will entail overlay and betterment activities
which use the existing pavement and are contained within the embankanents of the existing roads
to the maximum degree. Road widenings will be undertaken within specified limits as necessary
to provide a uniform width. Earth-moving and tree removal occur in areas to be widened.
Existing bituminous surfacing materials are removed and all concrete, whether overlaid with
bituminous materials or not, are removed and broken up for re-use.  A new crushed
bricklregulating course is provided with an asphaltic concrete wearing course. Roads are
improved to accepted national standards, but in some instances road and shoulder widths are
reduced to keep earthworks and clearance costs to a minimum and to simplify construction,
provided that such reductions are consistent with safety considerations. Restricting earthworks
and the removal and reprocessing of pavement materials simplifies contractor scheduling and
reduces costs. It also avoids the environmental consequences related to earthworks and disposal
of removed pavement materials. Because it uses the existing embankment wherever possible, the
program restricts the clearing of trees and vegetation to whose areas in which it has been found
to be necessary to provide unobstructed shoulders and adequate horizontal sight lines. When
clearance is required, actions are confined to one side of the roadway to minimize disruptions.
Improvements to bridges and drainage structures are integral parts of the program.
-     Overlay Activities. Overlay activities generally consist of strengthening of existing roads with
an asphalt concrete overlay in areas in which more costly works cannot be economically justified.
Significant widening of pavement and shoulders is not part of these activities. Earthworks are
minimal and disturbances are contained within the existing rights of way.
END NOTES - SECIION 1
1.    Data Sheet prepared 25 November 1992, The World Bank, as modified by commnents dated 18
May 1993.
2.    Aide Memoire, The World Bank, circa December 1992, Page 5.
3.    Aide Memoire, op cit.
4.    Bangladesh Environmental Strategy Review, The World Bank, November 1991, page 3.
5.    Ibid, Annex 2, page 1.
6.    Southwest Area Water Resources ManaEement Plan page 23.
7.    Aide Memoire, op cit., page 8. The Highway Design Maintenance (HDM) Model is a computer
model used to determine road improvement options and the trade-offs between new construction
and maintenance investments.
EmWrmmueozal Analysia                                              People's Repic o   tfBau"dsh
S&cd RehYbuarm & Mairawc Prea                                MA Famdhg ovded By 7he World  k



2
2.0 Existing Conditions



- 2.0 EXISTING CONDMONS
INTRODUCTION
Bangladesh is divided into four administrative divisions: Dhalca, Chinagong, Rajshahi and Khulna. Each
Division is in tum divided into several lesser units known as Districts, some of which have the same
name and serve as the capitol of the Division in which they are located. lhe area to be addressed by
RRMP-II consists of two of these administrative divisions:
U     Rajshahi, the northwest portion of Bangladesh. Rajshahi Division is bounded to the north by
the international boundary and submontane regions of the Himalaya; to the south by the Ganges
(called the Padma in Bangladesh); to the east by the Brahmaputra (called the Jamuna in
Bangladesh); and to the west by the Bangladesh-India border. Districts within the Division
include Dinajpur, Rangpur, Bogra, Rajishahi and Pabna. The area contains approximately 34,200
square kilometers and over 25 million persons.
*     Khulna, the southwest portion of the country. Khulna Division is defined on the north by the
GangeslPadma; tie confluence of the Ganges/Padma and the Brahmaputra/Jamuna Rivers on the
east; the state of West Bengal in India on the west and the Bay of Bengal on the south. Kushtia,
Jessore, Faridpur, Barisal, Patuakhai and Khulna Districts are included in this area.
Environmental conditions in the two divisions differ somewhat, as will be noted below. This section of
the analysis presents the general physical characteristics of the two Divisions in Section 2.1 and a
description of relevant socio-economic conditions in Section 2.2. Details of existing conditions in the
ROWs designated for rehabilitation are presented in Section 2.3; the overlay areas are discussed in
Section 2.4. Details of the five proposed re-alignments and bypasses are presented in Section 2.5.
Potential impacts from the proposed action are discussed in Section 3.0 following the same numerical
sequence and format.
2.1. PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS
2.1.1 TopographylSoils/Geology
Topography: As is true for most of Bangladesh, both portions of the potentially affected areas are for
the most part alluvial plains, the land form which dominates 90 percent of the country. Elevations
sddom rise more than 10 meters above mean sea levd (msl). The only relief from the plains occurs
outside of the potential zone of influence in the northeast and the southeast corners of the country where
the hills follow a general north-south direction and rise to an average of 240 meters and 600 meters,
respectively.
Although it also lacks significant hills or topographic relief, the Rajshahi Division has some higher
ground as much as 100 feet above sea level in the old alluvial deposits of the Bad tracts in the
northwest. The hbulna Division. on the other hand is enirely alluvial plain less than 10 meters above
msl which falls to the Sundarbans area on the coast. The topography of both areas are both flat and flood
prone. As a result, roads are generally built on embankments and are often the most pronounced
EAXAr     lAia                           *.pk's Rpmc ,fE&udazh
5KaudJmUadn & MJalmlo Prc                                    MMl Fwdhs Am.d ht The WerU Bo



Pag 2-2                                                                           ApeU IWi
topographic feature - a situation which has significant implic2tions for area drainage patterns and the
design of drainage structures within any road construction program.
Geology: Like its topography, geology has a profound effect on the Bangladesh environment.
Bangladesh has virually no stone to be exploited for use as aggregate or building materials. It does,
however, have a plentiful supply of clay, leading to the making of bricks. Soils and days are extracted
through a form of strip-mining and fired to make bricks in relatively small 'brickfields found throughout
the study area. The RRMP adds to the demand for bricds as will be described in the Impacts Section
(3.1). Other geological factors of note include the fact that the study area lies within an active seismic
zone and is mostly classified as medium risk. The northern part (around Kurigram) is a high risk area.
Catastrophic earthquakes occurred in 1762. 1782, 1897 and 1950.1
In broad terms, there are three major geological formations in Bangladesh:
*     Teiary Hill Sediments. These occur in the northern and eastern hill, including the districts of
Chittagong, Chittagong hill tracts and the northern border of Mymensing and Sylhet and are
outside (tO the east of) the current study area. The tertiary hill sediments cover 12 percent of the
total land area of Bangladesh and are mainly comprised of unconsolidated beds of sandstone,
siltstones, shales and some conglomerates.
*     Madhupur Clay. Madhupur day underlies the Madhupur and Barind tracts in the center and
west, including Rajshabi Division. It also occurs on the Akhaura terrace area and the summit
of the Lalmai Hills in the east of Comilla in the eastern part of the country and outside the study
area. The land form is laced with deep-cutting channels that in most cases do not flow year
round. The unconsolidated clay is highly sticky and good for road construction. And;
*     Recent alluvium. These are the flood plain and estuary areas occupying the remainder of the
country, including most of the Khulna portion of the study area. They are seasonally inundated,
ranging in depth from one foot to between 10 and 12 feet depending on local topographic
conditions. The are generally rich in agricultural land and provide viable habitat for wildlife.
Soils: The prodominant soil groups of Bangladesh include: grey floodplain soils, grey and red-brown
terrace soils, calcareous alluvium soils, basins soils and grey piedmont soils. Grey and red-brown terrace
soils, which make up about 17 percent of the soils in .ie country, are generally flood-free and poor in
organic matter. In contrast, the vast majority of the country (83 percent) of the soil types are highly
fertile.
2.1.2 Hydrlogy
Rivers and their impact upon the land are the defining features of Bangladesh. The outflow of water from
Bangladesb is the third largest in the world, after the Amazon and the Congo systems. Its rivers are
young and migratory. Many small lakes and ponds scattered around the country are created when
branches of meandering rivers are cut off. Recent deforestation in Bangladesh and its neighbors has
caused more water carrying larger amounts of silt to flow larger amounts of silt through the already
burdened river systems, leading to faster, shallower rivers more prone to flooding. Major floods occur
every 2 to 3 years with flash floods in the north during the rains and major floods elsewhere between
August and October. Planning to contain flood waters is impeded by the fact that the county's fertility
E*muuanuaIAa.uIjui'                                                 Pwpi,kIs A*ubE Of iny"90h
Swid MUMUUrIM &  smju. A'jea                                  W& Fimdn hu4I E me n.d w *mRn



Ap, 19913                                                                         Pao 2-i
depends on regular flooding.
The Brahmaputra/Jamuna and the Ganges/Padma systems are the two that define the study area. The
Brahmaputra/Jamuna and lower Megha are the widest rivers, with the latter expanding to around 8
kilometers in the wet season; more when it is in flood. The GangeslPadma, which begins in the Indian
state of Uttar Pradesh, enters Bangladesh from the northwest through the Tajshahi Division. It joins the
Brahmaputra/Januna in the center of the country, northwest of Dhaka, at which point the system fingers
into many branches, all heading south to drain into the Bay of Bengal.
The hydrological characteristics of the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions differ somewhat because of their
defining geography and may be summarized as follows, respectivdy.
2.1.2.1 The Rajshahi Division
Surface Hydrology: Rivers draining the interior of Rajshahi Division include the Atrai, the Nogor and
the Hurasagar Rivers. Other than the rivers, there is little surface water in the Rajshahi portion of the
study area2. Wetlands and flooding, however, are important considerations.
Welland Characteristics: The Rajshahi of the study area contains an area of 'beel' (i.e., swamp or
seasonal lake) wetlands, referred to collectively as the Chalan Beel, an internationally important wetland
for migratory birds and fisheries. The beel is believed to have been formed due to seismic events in 1762
and 1782, high rainfall in 1878, and the westward shift of the Ganges/Padma Rivet'. The Chalan Beel
is fed by storm runoff, inflow from the Atrai and backup from the Brahmaputra (through the Hurasagar).
Wetlands in this area have been reduced by poldering and drainage for agriculture. The Atrai basin has
experienced severely depleted dry scason base flows, possibly due to extensive groundwater development
for irrigation in the 1980.d World Bank reports' indicate that, although once an important wintering
area for ducks, geese and shorebirds, the Chalan Beel now covers only a quarter of the area thw it
covered 15 years ago (Exhibit 3).
Flood Characteristics: Flooding problems in the Rajshahi are primarily in the eastern and southern parts
of the Division and the result direct rainfll, drainage congestion at the Hurasagar River outfall, and
overbank flow from several major regional rivers, most of which drain into the JamunalBrahmaputra.
Backwater and flash floods are problems within the Atrai system and originate in the Himalayan piedmont
and the Barind tract.
Control of flooding by the J Brahmaputra on the eastern boundary of the Division has been
attempted by the 220 kilometer Brahmaputra Right Embanknent (BRE) built in the 1960s to protect some
200,000 hectares of land from overbank flooding. Localized failures of the BRE have allowed floods in
the eastern part of the Division. Tlere was extensive damage to crops and property during the 1987 and
1988 floods. Strengthening of the BRE is a major element of the Flood Action Plan (FAP), a major
program undertaken to alleviate flood problems throughout the country. It is reported that the BRE does
not significantly impede drainage which is generally paralle to the river in the protected area. The BRE
is exposed to erosion by the river; river training works to protect the bank are charcterized by FAP
reports as only partially successful.'
Major floods severely impacted the Rajshahi Division in 1987 and 1988, the latter being the larger and
was caused by the simultaneous peaking of the JamunalBrahmaputra and the GangeslPadina Rivers. The
EAWU.EahZflI4AjE                                                    N.p4 IpWuNIc t-f iqgudz
S_Rd..mlan & Nium,..ePuAt                                    MO F_IbS P)WAa At5 71w WM Bo*



Pose 2.4                                                                                 Ap4    J 99J
00000   0        @~~0 00
EXHBIT 3                     GENERALIZED HABITAT - RIAJSHH DIVISION
Ssr  Neh WS ReIia ad (FA?r). X_mb 1,1.
Ewgaja8papcf _
Sew_udRdmAhIDsaU, 4 H~,euwe .~ua                                3* Fwdi h,         <_dgi D~ Ike Wadd 3in,k
^  _          -                         r*              sw w~~~~~~~~~~~



AP4 1993                                                                           Pae 2-5
floods caused widespread damage and destruction of RRMP roads. Several segments of the Phase I
rehabilitated NS, the primary transportation link for the region, were inundated or destroyed by the
floods, prompting a review of the rehabilitation design to assess the ability of the road to withstand floods
of a similar magnitude. The evaluation found the original drainage design to be inadequate. Original
designs were based on the assumption that recent and planned flood control, drainage and irrigation
schemes would limit future flood flows and safely rejulate rainfall runoff in the southern part of the
Division. The design profile grade line elevations were lowered and existing bridge and culvert openings
were eliminated or reduced to accormnodate only local drainage. The assumption was applied throughout
the area. Culverts were programmed for replacement with structures of smaller capacity. No new
drainage facilities were provided. The premise proyed ill-founded.
The worst damage occurred because culverts were too small and too few as a result of the assumption.
Accordingly, in areas of high flood risk, RRMP practice has changed to the use of larger capacity box
culverts based on revised design standards. Rather than reducing the capacity of openings as had
previously been the case, the general policy was changed to replace existing culverts with the same or
greater capacity. The road sections designated as flood-prone were provided with additional cross-
drainage capacity. Other portions of the road where significant damage occurred or where there was
evidence of drainage congestion were given special attention. In areas of flat terrain equalizers or relief
culverts are now provided at regular intervals. A detailed culvert schedule was prepared. Additional
detail in regard to potential impacts as a result of these program revisions are discussed in Section 3.1.
2.12.2 Khulna Division
Surface Hydrology: The Khulna Division is fingered by a great number of distributor channels
extending from the Ganges/Padma River to the Bay of Bengal. The Gorai and the Madbumati are the
most notable. Much of the Division is marhland or dense jungle. The southern area is dominated by
the Sundarbans, a hugh tract of waterlogged jungie.
Wetland Characristics: Much of the Khulna portion of the study area is classified as wetlands,
including rivers, streams, shallow fresh water ponds (hoars and beels), water storage reservoirs,
seasonally cultivated plains, fish ponds and mangrove swamps. Mangrove forest of the Sundarbans are
largely intact in the southern part of the region and include a rich variety of tree species, induding the
Sundri (Heritera fomes) for which the region is named.
The Sundarbans are a unique and valuable ecosystem of mangrove forest that present changing paterns
of plant communities which vary according to salinity, drainage levels and seasons. It constiutes the
largest natural habitat in Bangladesh and, together with the Indian Sundarbans, forms the largest
mangrove forest ecosystem in the world. It is an open system, linked upstream with the land and
downstream with the sea. Nutrients are derived mainly from upstream catchments or tidal flooding while
organic materials are trasported seaward. The Sundarbans is an imporunt environmental resource from
many perspectives and essential to the survival of the shrimp industry which relies on the capture of post-
larval shrimp found in the brackisb areas of the delta.' The system is under considerable threat due to
reductions in freshwater flushing action caused by upstream abstractions (most notably at Farakka),
poldering, over exploitation of wood resources, increased agriculture and increased siltation. It is a
protected area under the purview of the Forest Department and has been managed as a forest reserve
since 1817 according to one reporte and 1878 according to anothee. It is in any case, considered to be
one of the oldest managed forest areas in the tropics.
£Fb*um.eahuAuaiyufr                                                 People's Aewwwi of 5oZIuah
sAinv Rhikwmd & Mdknance AV*C1                               WMa FauadIa PNwddd37 liar WorM Do*



Page 2-6                                                                         AprU 1991
Modification or degradation of this unique naural resources would have severe environmental
consequences.
Flood Chamcteristics: The Khulua Division floods througb openings in the river embankments, ponding
of direct rainfall (often exacerbated by low gradients and degraded natural drainage networks), overflows
from distributor channels, and drainage obstruction by road an rail embankments. Storm surge floods
occasionally affect the southern tidal floodplain, generally either before or after the monsoon.
Embannments protect the coastal polders from water incursions and require maintenance and repair.
Polders in the in the Satkira-Khulna area have resulted in sedimentation of some coastal creeks and rivers.
Sand depositions and water hyacinth are long-standing problems which have been exacerbated by past
water control works in the region. Salinity intrusion is a growing problem in the dry season due to
declining freshwater inflow, a result of upstream depletions and siltation of previous offtakes from the
Ganges/Padma such as the Gorai and the Arial Khan.'°
2.13 Biological Resources
Flra: Major forest areas of Bangladesh are indicated by Exhibit 4. About 10 percent of the country
is still forested. Half of the remaining forest is in the Chittagong Hill Tracts and a quarter in the
Sundarbans and the rest scattered in small pockets throughout the country." Even away from the forest,
Bangladesh boasts many trees, including hugh rain trees and spectacular banyan or worshot trees. Teak
was introduced into the Chittagong Hill Tracts in the last century. The most common tree is the mango
and small orchards dot the country, especially in the north. Recent road-side tree plantings are found
along all roads throughout the study area.
Predominant vegetation comunuities within the potentially affectd zone are dassified as:'
*     Tropial Dry Forest  mostly in isolated stands of trees with a few intact woodlands in the
Barind areas of western Bamgladesh, generally in areas with less than 50 inches of annial rainfall.
Most of the tropical dry forest have been eliminated from Bangladesh and replaced by irrigated
agricultural fields. Isolated native trees are occasionally seen in the Barind area within the
Rajshahi Division, but no extensive forest lands remain (Exhibit 4).
*     Cultivated Homestead Woodlands: planted dosed canopy, stratified stands of fruit, fodder,
timber and fuelwood trees are found within and adjacent to setdement areas throughout
Bangladesh. This classification comprises the majority of the tree cover of the country and
provides a rich source of ecological and ecnomic security for settled areas.
*     Herbaceous Wetlands: dominant vegetation is sedges and rushes found in small, mosdy
disrupted communities throughout Bangladesh.
*     Mangrove Woodlands: extensive dosed canopy stands of wedands in the Sundarbans and along
the southeasten coast near Cox's Bazaar.
Tropical Evergreen Forest are also found in Bangladesh, primarily in the Chitlagong Hills and lowlands
of the southeast Sub-Tropical Deciduous Forest are found primarily in very isolated stands north of
EmEi_avai44udjmia                                                  Peok Is Ripbc of .gVh&A
Semd_ _kmBrm.s 6    wmu, A*"                                 W& F=mdM p       Dy he WmBo*D



Apg J9193                                                                                  Pagi 2-7
*J        Jo i                                             L1,         30 @b
6% ~   ~    ~    6
.,, '41.4
3    OPIA DVCIDUMS POSIIE W &Mg"
I g   PIC@bseL *TRAI rsCl "os pgfS_ll  n
EMIIT 4                                                              FOREST AREAS
S    _S- FAimmw& Nat gR owmAm         mW V         eftfs_ WR , S-_ rer
WI dAndydr                                -b.
Seemd Rckwamdm a  abuomme % v*cs                     mmirwl&v pww A~, 7w Wm"-Bo



Pa, 24                                                                            APU J993
Dhaka and in the Sylbet region, outside the study area. The Forest Department administers the forest
reserves through 6 'Forest Circles'. Portions of the Khulna Division are covered by the Jessore Forest
Circle and the Plantation Circle, the later of which has responsibility for the Sundarbans Forest Reserve
and the coastal plantations.'3
No threatened or endangered plants are on the United States Fish and Wildlife (USFWS) list for
Bangladesh. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) list includes certain orchards and other species of international commercial significance. The
International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) also has identified some threatened plants.
Substantial plant distribution data is available in the national herbarium, but is reportedly not synthesized
and supplemented to evaluate the status of rare plants. In the absence of such an analysis, definitive
determinations are not possible."'
Fauna: The Sundarbans in the Kbulna portion of the study area is the home to the world's largest
population of Royal Bengal tiger (Panthera tigris), the only genetically viable tiger population. No other
habitat is sufficient to sustain a large enough breeding population. Although there are approximately
4,000 individuals elsewhere in Asia, they live in relatively small populations in isolated habitats. Only
the Sundarbans provides a large enough habitat to ensure the longterm survival of the tiger in the
wild".
Although tigers are almost exclusively confined to the Sundarbans, Bangladesh is also home to others of
the cal family like the cheetahs, leopards and panthers. Other large animals include Asiatic elephants
(mostly migratory herds from Bihar) and a very few remaining black bears in the Chittagong Division,
wild pigs and deer. Monkeys, otters and mongooses are some of the smaller animals. There were once
wild buffalo and two species of rhinoceros, but all became extinct in this cenury. Reptiles include the
sea tortoise. mud turtle, river tortoise. pythons, crocodiles and a variety of poisonous snakes."6 The
Sundarbans are also considered to be among the best habitat for the endanger estuarine crocodile.
There are more than S00 species of birds, of which two-thirds are resident. Tbe best known is the mynah
of which there are six different varieties. The migratory and seasonal birds are predominantly ducks,
which are hunted on the flooded fields. Varieties of kingfisher and the fishing eagle are seen around the
water. The World Bank reports that 18 species of animals have been lost in this century in Bangladesh
and 130 are endangered, including elephant, leopard, gaggetic dolphin, and the White-winged Wood
Duck. Three hundred species are considered rare or of doubtful occurrence.17
Table I lists endangered species listed by the Departnent of the Interior, United States Fish and Wildlife
Service (USFWS) for Bangladesh and/or surrounding regions. Few of these species still have viable
populations in Bangladesh. Table 2 indicates additional declining and/or at risk species identified by the
IUCN. Most of the USFWS-listed species are upland forest species. RiverineWfloodplain species are
indicated by an asterisk.
2.1.4 Meteorology & Air Quality Charderistics
Litle empirical data in regard to air quality in Bangladesh has come to light in the course of the
environmental investigation. The North West Regional Study of the Flood Action Plan (October 1991)
notes dtat ground levels of rural aerial pollution from local sources are low in Bangladesh, but that the
output from industrial and urban areas is growing and the pace of nural mecanizaion has increased
Emd,wanAutyasfi                                                      Pwpkes hRubf of _m,gid-k
Slwd R,MidIsadm & Makimswe Piw Ucd* Faudig P,mWde4 Ay hte WWef Bonk



ApFU J93                                                                            Page 2-9
TABLE 1
ENDANGERED & THREATENED SPECIES
LlSTED BY THE USFWS FOR BANGLADESH & SURROUNDING REGION
COMMON           SCWENTIFIC             HISTORIC          STATUS         NOTES
NAME              NAME                 RANGE
Elephant,       Elas maximus         South-central and         E       Forested
Asian                                Southeast Asia                    habitats.
Rhinoceros,     Rhinoceros           Lndonesia. Indochina,     E       Extirpated
Javan           sondaicus            Burma, Thailand,
Sikim, Bangladesh,
Malaysia
Rhinoceros,     Dicerorhinus        Bangladesh to              E       Extirpated
Sumatran        sumatris             Vietnam to Indonesia
Seledang                             Bangladesh, SE Asia       E       Extirpated
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ In d ia_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Banteng         Bos                 SEAsia                     E       Extirpated
Deer. Eld's     C      ddius  |d India to SE Asia 
Brow-andecred|                                                  _
Goral         |leoaadsor  |East Asia                      |    E
Serow           Caricornis           SE Asia, Sumatra          E       Relatively
sumatraeni                                             common in
remote
______________                                       ~~~~~~~~~~Chittagong
Duck, white-    Carina sutalata      India, Malaysia,          E       About 20 left in
winged                               Indonesia, Thailand               1982, mostly in
wood                                                                   Pablakali
WildlifE
Sanctuary
Greenshank      Tringa uni           USSR, Japan,              E
Nordmanns                            Malaysia, Borneo
*Crocodile,     Crocodylus Ralustri  India, Pakist  Iran,      E       Possibly
mugger                               Bangladesh                        exireL
I                                                                       __
5uu~laA.M&ada. 4 M_mammct Piqku                               314 FW~ihk AV~*& of BtWheu DFnk



Page 2-10                                                                         AprU 1993
COMMON           SCIENTIFIC            HISTORIC          STATUS         NOTES
NAME              NAME                 RANGE
Gavial          Gavgalis gLanticus    Pakistan, Burma,        E       Ten parties in
Bangladesh, India,                Padma &
Nepal                            lamuna River
_________ ______   __ _________ _______   _ _________ system s.
Monitor,        Varanus benealens   Iran, Iraq, India, Sri    E
Bengal                              I anla2 Malaysia,
Afghanstan, Burma,
Vietnam, NE India
Monitor,        Varanus flavescens   West Pakistan througb    E       Widespread,
yellow                             India to Bangladesh                huted.
Python, Indian  |Bho  molurus     | Sri Lanka and India       E       Sundarbans.
Terrapin,       Batagur             Malaysia, Bangladesh,     E
river                               Burma, India,
Indonesia
Tunid, black    Trionyx niglicans    Bangladesh               E       Extinct in the
sofRshell                                                             wild.
!Turle,        Trionxb humm         India, Bangladesh         E       Bramaputra &
i peacock                                                             Ganges Systems.
softshell
Tunle, three-    Manochelys         Central India to          E       Poorly knGwn,
keeled                              Bangladesh and Burma              upland forest
Asian                                                                 habitat.
Notes: E = Endangered. T = lhrened. ' = riverinelfloodplain habitat
Source: Programmatic Environmental Assessmet of the USAIDIBangladesh Integrated Food
Development Program, January 1991.
Eniowmine'uauL _lAaayuSu                                           'peIs Rxpubft Of mmgidth
swi Rak.awm~   m        A                                    WMh Fw_ag Pdda Sy 7hr WorM 5'k



Apra 1993                                                                         Page 2-11
TABLE 2
TEATENED ANIMA1S OF BANGLADESH
ON THE INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE CONSERVATION UNION RED LIW
NOT THE US FISH AND WIDLIFE SERVICE LuST
SCIENTIFIC NAME               COMMON NAME                    SIATUS
Platanista gangetica       Ganges Rover Dolphic                V
Orcaella brevirostris      Irrwaddy Dolphic                    K
Aonyx cinerea              Oriental Small-clawed Otter         K
Pelecanus phillipensis     Spot-billed Pelican                 K*
Leptoptilos dubius         Greater Adjutant Stork              K'
Francolinus gularis        Swamp partridge                     K'
Perdicula manipurensis     Manipur Bush Quail                  Ks
Helopais personata         Masked Finfoot                      K*
Houbaropsis bengalensis    Bengal Florican                     E
Pellorneum palustre        Marsb Babbler                       K'
Garrulax galbanus          Yellow-hroamed Lughingmhrusb        K*
Kachuga kachuga            Red-crowned Roofed Turtde           I
Indotestudo elongata       Elongated Tortoise                  K
Croccodylus porosus        Esturine Crocodile                  E
Note: Ex =  Extinct
E =  Endangered so that survival is unlikely wiihout intervention.
V  =  Vulnerable or Threatned.
R =  Rare and/or at risk.
I =   Intermediate; knwn to be declining or at risk, but severity unknown.
K  =  Suspected to be declining or at risk, but status unkmown.
K  =  Suspected to be declining or at risk and currently under review.
Source: ProgramAtiC E            Asessment of the USAID/Bangladesh Integrated Food
Development Program. Jauiary 1991.
EAWf= AnaydA                                                       P&qVk,whlWcfxuWh&
Secmd"ahnam & MYweeprom                      -               Wim F'JhP hmMd Dy Tme Wam DW.k



Pae 2-12                                                                         AFp I913
rapidly in recent decades. This is particularly associated with the introduction of tubewell engines and
the conversion of country boats to motorized power using shallow tubewell engines. Of particular
relevance to the RRMP is the fact that the demand for kiln bricks has also lead to a rise in the use of
fossil and timber fuels, although in theory the use of the latter has been banned." Dust in general and
from road construction in particular is a concern in the western and considerably dryer western parts of
the study area.
The climate of the area is categorized as subtropical and tropical with temperatures ranging from an
average daytime low of 21 degrees C in the cold season to a top of 35 degrees in the hot season. Annual
rainfall varies from 1,000 millimeters (mm) in the west to 2,500 in the southeast and up to 5,000 mm
in the north near the hills of Assam. Three-quarters of the annul rainfall occurs between June and
September. 90-95 percent humidity in the hot season is common. The humidity remains high year
round, producing thick fogs in winter. Bangladesh is affected on average 16 times per decade by
cyclones which form in the Bay of Bengal during the monsoon season. The tropical cyclones hit the
coast, usually between Calcutta and Cox's Bazaar, with winds up to 100 kilometers/hour and storm tides
that devastate the coastal plains and villages. Bangladesh has three main seasons: the monsoon or 'wet'
season from mid-June to mid-October; the 'cold' season from mid-October to the end of February; and
the "hot season (known in Bangladesh as the little rainy season') from March to the end of May."
The study area, particularly in the north, has considerably less rainfall than other parts of the country.
Annual rainfall varies from 55 inches per year (1,400 mm) in the western region of Rajshahi to 228
inches per year (5,800 nun) in Sylhat in the northeast0
2. LS Noise
No empirical data in regard to noise has come to light in the course of the environmental investigation.
Traffic noise in major cities is often significant.
2.2  COMMUNITY & SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISCS
2.2.1 Population
The study area houses a hugh population of about 45 million persons in a relatively small xnd
environmentally sensitive area. Bangladesh is one of the most densely populated countries in the world,
excluding city-states such as Singapore. The 1981 census indicated a population of 89.9 million. The
population was estimated as 100.5 million in 1985, with a population density of 1,760 persons per square
mile. The 1991 census reports a population of 107,992,940 million persons. Key indicators by
Division for 1991 were as indicated by Table 3.
The population is evenly distributed geographically, although the Dhaka and Chittagong Districts have
the highest total numbers. Cities are growing at a faster rate than mral populations. The total population
is expected to be greater than 140 million by the year 2000 and at the current growth rate will not
stabilize until exceeding 340 million.21
Urban agglomeraions are expected to increase to 37.5 million in 1995 and annual urban growth rates
have been recorded as 105 percent'. compared to an average population growth rate between now
Sec,d R,JmAbUka~m~  & Mmuuumce Piwjra                        RUm Faumdlug hw~4dd's RD"* of Bwm
Sw_  dbUd    awm PA*                      IW  Fmf NvA  D~ h WerA Bo*



AprU 1993                                                                        Pqc 2-13
TABME 3
KEY DEMOGRAPHIC INDICATORS BY DIVISION
LOCATION    AREA    HOUSEHOIDS    POPULATION    HH SIZE    DENSITY
l ________  _ ____          (HH) (000)           (000)
Bangladesh      134         19,617           107,993*        5.34          781
Rajshahi       33          4,923             25,432         5.17          751
Khulna        28           3,715            19,966         5.37          714
Dhaka         30          6,220             32,270         5.19         1,070
Chittagong      42          4,758            27,096          5.69          640
Sourc: Nonh Wag Regkna Sudy. hirim Rpon. Ocktber 1991.
Fgumae n brard on unadjuaWld c= mum med do yicld she pAbiad mzionl toa.
estimated as 2.01 percent, on the basis of the 1991 census. Bangladesh's urban population is consideredto
be low by world standards, but is believed to have experienced a surge in its rate of urbanization.' The
urban population is expected to reach 35-40 million by the year 2000. Recent population data sufficiently
disaggregated to determine overall, urban and rural population growth in the study area has not come to
light in the course of the analysis. The hierarchy of urban places based on 1981 data (Exhibit 5) is
probably indicative of relative distributions, except that Dhaka's dominance has probably increased.
Rajshahi Division has somewhat higher density than Khulna and a somewhat smaller household size. The
population of the Khulna Division is growing at 1.89 percent per anm, compared to 2.01 percent for
all of Bangladesh. 89 percent of the population lives in niral areas and 1I percent in urban areas.
Population resettlement will be necessary in conjunction with the five sub-projects as detailed in the
individual sub-project descriptions, Section 2.3.
2.2.2 Economic Structure
The economy o the study area, like most of Bangladesh, is an overwhelmingly agricultural. In 1985,
industries accounted for approximady 9 percent of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GPD) and
20 percent of employment. The trade and services sector provided about 40 percent to GDP and 18
percent of total employment. Agriculture's corresponding shares were 51 percent of GDP and 61 percent
of overall employment.25
Approximatly 86 percent is engaged in some phase of crop production, storing, transportation,
processing or marketing. Both portions of the potentially affected area are believed to be generally
reflective of the national statistics. Rice production is the primary economic activity. Sugar and tobacco
crops are common. Homestead plots are maintained for fruit, vegetable, poultry, livestock, and other
wood product needs. Common cotage industries include weaving, basket-making and brush making,
ErnWrnu.d_AaiyAr    P*epkes XWubc of DrgIAh
3ccm.d&hebiadg & Ma tInawc                                 RIsM Fi-ig Pi.4d Jy ike W.dd Dwk



Par 2-14                                                                 ]"I
DISTRIBUTION OF MAJOR URBAN CENTERS .
1981-
%o '.' *.,_
.'---  1       S        (S--a-.A.
t a,- , <aI
p9                                     L6T1
'.-aDH
EXB1T S                                 URBAN HEARCMI DUiGRAM
s    m&wd & NlXa R_etm A _umet WW R        =o  b l lSID  UAM. Sap_b 1"O0
- v      Mow                                   1^_^y Gau'mw  *
F.wrwwd aba                                          ppkg r**ofRO"
secod Reobakfim  Noknaft A Vcs              wk Fslav immaNY 7e wm am



AW11 J9WJ                                                                         Page 2-I5
pottery, spimning, blacksmithing, woodworking and cane and bamboo weaving.
2.2.3 Energy Consumption Charcteristies
Domestic energy use in rural areas accounts for 73.2 percent of the total energy consumption in
Bangladesh. More than 80 percent of the energy sources are based on biomass fuels. Principal fuels
include collected animal dung, crop residues (especially jute) fudlwood from clipped brancbes and
kerosene. Agricultural residues constitute 66.4 percent of rural energy use, with fuelwood and dung
contributing another 17.2 and 16.2 percent, respectively.
The use of wood for fuel cetain purposes, particularly the firing of bricks, is a major issue in the study
area. Although the practice is officially banned, its practice is widespread (See End Notes).
2.2.4 Transport and Access Cbaracteistics
One of the most obvious, but critical, aspects of Bangladesh's roads is that virtually all are built on
embankments because the country is flat and flood prone. Many of the vehicles using the roadways are
not motorized. Trishaws and bullock carts are conunon. The physical geography greatly influences the
traffic pattern and modes. Traffic is carried by waterways in the central and southern regions; road
tansport and railways carry most of the traffic in the north and northwest. The construction of roads
and railway lines moving east-west is generally more difficult and expensive than north south because of
the drainage patterns and river crossings. Approximately 15,000 kilometers of roads in various
classifications come under the management of RHD.
Networking: Road networks in the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions are considered generally good in
extent. but in poor condition with narrow pavements. The fact that the network -is basically sound
supports the approach of RRMP and has been verified by the RMP as noted by the introductory remarks.
Roads are numbered with national roads caring a prefix of N and a one or two digit mumber; regional
roads have a prefix of R and a three digit number; Feeder roads have a prefix of F and four digit
number.
Pavements: Pavement types in the study area vary and include concrete, double bituminous surface
treaument (DBST) and penetration macadam. Conditions vary from total failure to fair. Widths range
from 4 to 8 meters. Horizontal alignments are fair. Travel speeds of 80 kilometers per hour are
obtainable and are more dependent on pavement conditions than alignment, except at some bridge sites
and in towns and villages. Vertical aligments sometimes lie below the level of the surrounding paddy
fields. Improving the vertical alignment generally requires additional cross drainage structures.
Shoulders tend to the most neglected part of the road structure due to poor construction (e.g., granular
material and insufficient compaction); bullock carts using the shoulders during the wet season causing
rutting; and buses and trucks traveling on the shoulder to avoid overloaded rickshaws which can move
only on the paved surfaces.
Bridges & Other Drainage Structures: Problems with existing bridges include: scour around abutments
and piers; settlement of approaches; erosion behind wingwalls, etc. Until recendy, box and pipe culverts
in some areas indicated little evidence of routine mai ence such as the clearing of weeds and
vegetation. Common problems include failing of masonry headwalls and erosion at the inlets/outlets.
Problems related to bridges and other drainage structures in Raishahi Division during earlier stages of
bifmme -ulIAmmtyds                                                Peopkws RapuabU of5uBgjeAh
kcaind A.bWhaaUa & Mawsmmce Avec                             Ul Ab Fu'adIs AvW    T~he WwM' Am~&



Pap 2-16                                                                          Apl 1I
RRMP are discussed in terms of flooding characteristics above.
Trffic Growth Rates: Both freight and passenger transport are reported as growing at a rate between
5 and 6 percent per year. The rate of growth of road transport has been greater, particularly in freight,
due in large measure to the decline of the raiway system and lower growth of water transport. The RMP
estimates that rail traffic will do no more than maintain its present position in the next decade and water
transport will contimue to grow at slightly below the overall transport demand rates for both freight and
passenger.2
River Transport: River transport is an important mode of transportation in the IChulna Division, less
so in the Rajshahi Division. It is the only form of transportation in some portions of the southwest, but
has suffered decline and is likely to experience further declines for reasons over which Bangladesh has
no control. Withdrawals at the Farraka Barrage during the dry season has created conditions for
abnormal deterioration of waterways. In spite of these problems, country boats play an important role
in river transportation and are considered to be underestimated in their importance to the economy.'
22.5 Cultural Resources
Bangladesh is exceptionally rich in archaeological wealth, especially of the medieval period during
Muslim and pre-Muslim rule. Protection of cultural resources is the responsibility of the Department of
Archaeology under the Ministry of Culture. Because the project is confined primarily to existing ROWs,
it presents little potential for direct adverse impact to cultural resources, except as may be encountered
in the bypass and realignment areas discussed below. Saidpur Bypass should be particularly noted.
2.3 The RRMP-11 ACTION AREAS
2.3.1 Rehabilitation Action Areas
Locations of the rchabilitation areas are indicated by the foregoing Exhibit 1. The locations are
preliminary and may be subject to some modifications, but are not expected to alter substantially.
Existing conditions in the areas indicated for rehabilitation art described in general terms above, and in
specific terms for each roadway as follows, based on earlier RRMP reports and environmental field
investigations.
2.3.1.1 Rangpur to Saidpur
The Rangpur to Saidpur road runs generally from east to west. l8e easterly 7 kilometers of the road
drain to the Ghagot River which runs dose to the road and passes southwest of Rangpur. The River
appears normally controlled for irrigation purposes, but can take substantial flood flows.
The remainder of the road crosses a series of fairly wdl-defined rivers flowing from north to south,
eventually joining into one south of the road. The main river crossing is the Jamuneswari and is bridged
by a major structure. Two substantial new bridges have been constructed along this section of the road
in recent years, apparently at the instigation of the Bangladesh Water Development Board to span future
irrigation canals.
Ek%4IUSKN1fL,u                                                      Pa F_ Rep"& of BOU&Ad
&nw &ehOUAhijiaa  A Mdwawr m,c  jeas                          MA F=wAhu huw4i" A, 2e W.,E SAik



lpi 199I                                                                          Pae 2-17
The width of the existing embankment varies between 8 and 12 meters, with an average width of 9.5
meters. About one-third of the length is less than 9 meters wide. Narrow sections are generally
coincident with relatively high embanknents. Shoulder widths are generally 1.5 to 2.0 meters on either
side, but are less on the higher embankments. *The horizontal alignment is generally fair, with sharp
bends occurring on the outskirts of Rangpur and the approaches to the Ghagot Bridge. The vertical
aligment is generally good, but sub-standard at several bridges.
There are some mature trees along the road and extensive areas of sioaller trees and shrubs on the
embankment slopes. There is often only 8 to 9 Laeters of space rttween the trees on either side of the
Road. Widening the road to acceptable standards will have an impact on the vegetation in thcse areas
as discussed in Section 4.0. The Saidpur Bypass is located at the western end of the reriabilitation area.
The realignment at the Ghagot River crossing is within this r&.abilitation segr.ent.
23.1.2 Natore-Dasuria
The Naiore-Dasuria existing roadway is in the wilands area collectively Chalan Bed.  Existing
conditions along the Natore-Dasuria Road indicate that the southern third of the road drains from west
to east toward the Atrai system and there are poorly drained, presumably wedand and presumably flood-
prone lands to the east of the road. For the remaining two-thirds of the road, waterways intersecting the
road appear to be controlled for irrigation purposes.
The road has an existing embankinent which varies hbnvcen 9.5 and 13.3 meters with an avsage width
of 1 1.5 meters. Shoulder widths are rather variable and the existing pavement is not typically centered
in the existing embankment. The horizontal alignment of the existing road is fairly good, with sharp
bends occurring at approaches to bridges. The vetical alignment of the existing road is generally good.
However, vertical sight distances at most bridges are sub-standard and the combiiatior. of poor sight
distances with narrow bridge width occurs in several places. There are trees and shrubs along the
embankment slopes throughout the length of the roadway. Some large mature trees are within the
shoulder of the present road. The Dasuria Intersection is the point at which rehabilitation of the Natore-
Dasuria Road joins the completed RR?MP-I improvements. Tne Natore Bypass occurs at the western end
of this seg-zr>¶tt.
23.13 Natore to Rajshahi
The Natore to Rajshahi road runs generally east to west and ends at the banks of the GangeslPadma at
Rajshahi.
Within the easten two-Eiirds of the area, the main river systms are the Baral to the south are understood
to from east to west to join the Padma and a series of poorly defined waterways to the north which flow
from north of Rajshahi in a generally north-esterly direction to discharge eventually into the Atrai and
associated rivers. Flows in the immediate vicinity of the road are understood to be north to south,
discharging into the Baral. At time of peak flow, however, flows in the Ganges/Padma are reported to
have occurred from west to east in the Baral and then south to north across the roadway. To the east of
Puthia, the River Hoja (Musakhan) flows in a fairly well defined channel. West of Puthia drainage under
the road is very poorl) 1efined and for the 12 kilometer length of road through Baneswar ^o the railway
line there are no clearly discernable channels on the maps. Drainage demands on this 12 kllometer length
are substntial. It is assumed that there have been significant flood flows. Drainage diroughout the area
EjgrijmnggJAn.pg                                                    Pe.pk's Apsbc ef JogZdau
scw aA.MXuKa  6 mmaiaau PwJecs                               MA Foafd fr.AM Dy Thw Werd Bs,



Pap 2-lu                                                                         Apyi 1993
is being substantially modified by flood control and irrigation schemes. The western one-third into
Rajshahi is on the natural levee to the GangeslPadma and there are no apparent draige problems.
The width of the existing embankment varies between 9 and 13 meters, with an average of 11.75 meters;
only short lengths fall below 10.5 meters. Shoulder widths are variable; the existing pavement is
generally not centered on the embankment. One shoulder is typically 3-4 meters wide; the other 1-2
meters. The horizontal alignment of the existing road is generally fair with sharp bends occurring in a
few areas. Bends near the Musakhan Bridge (N6-C-20) and for three kilometers centered on Shibpur
Bazar are very tight. Tbe vertical alignment of the existing roadway is generally good. At most of the
bridges, however, deck levels are currently about one meter higher than the road on either side due to
the fact that their heights have been established to ensure adequate drainage. Vertical sight distances are
poor. The situation is particularly dangerous, but will be alleviate when the road improvements are put
in place.
There are substantial numbers of large mature trees within the shoulder of the present road; some are
very close to the existing pavement. Trees are present throughout the road length, but are most frequent
on the outskirts of Natore and Rajshabii. Recently planted trees and shrubs are generally close to the
embankiment edge and on the embankment slope. The existing pavement consists of an original concrete
strip widened on one or both sides to give a total width between 5.6 and 6.5 meters. The concrete strip
has been broken our during reconstruction in some areas, but significant lengths of overlaid concrete
remain.
2.3.1.4 Rajsh2hi-NawabgaqJ
The Rajshahi-Nawabganj Road is approximately 48 kilometers in length and follows the slight natural
levee to the GangeslPadma River for about half of its length. It then turns in a more north-westerly
direction parmeld to the River Mahananda through Godagari to reach Nawabganj. The Padma/Ganges
and the Mahananda Rivers dominate the drainage patterns in the area of the road. About 5 kilometers
inland from the road and generally parallel to it - a rather poorly defined drainage system, possibiy
wetlands but mainly used for agriculture, runmng tist-west, passing to the north of Rajshahi and finally
discharging into the Atrai River system further to the northeast. The drainage system is not believed to
affcct the road, except for the area between kliometers 3 and 10 out of Rajshahi where flooding could
back up to the road aligmnent. The road between Kilometers 18 and 25 is very close to the
Ganges/Padma River. This section of road has extensive village development on either side of the road,
impiying that the river bank is reasonably stable, but there are signs of erosion.
The road alignment is poor with many small curves. Embanikment heights are inadequate over at least
50 percent of the length. Pavement widths are narrow throughout with some sections of 3 meter side
concrete strip remaining. There are records of flooding in several areas, although in most cases it is
probably due to local drainage problems. Flooding in areas beyond Godagari, however, appears to occur
regularly and some lengths are being raised under a Flood Rehabilitation Project.
There is little or no embankment to this road for about one-third of its length and some sections are below
the adjacent fields. The lengdt without embankment is approximately 8 to 26 kilometers out of Rajshahi
and includes sections close tO the GangeslPadma River. The -wvidth of the embankment where it does exist
varies between 8 and 13 meters with an average of 10.4 meters. OnIV short lengths fall below 9 meters.
Shoulder widths are variable, averaging 2 meters whae the road has been widened and with one shoulder
EAWuu.avai InUb                                                     Pek's Rewubk of l_bIdk
Secmd RAmmu"   AfMrammw Pm*a                                UW& Famim Puwe 3t The Wmr" Bo*



April 1993                                                                        Page 2-19
of 4 meters where widening has not occurred. The horizontal alignment of the existing road is generally
fair, but bends which do occur are very sharp and completely unplanned. Almost all S-bends and
winding sections occur along the length without embankment. The vertical alignment is generally good.
There are relativdy few trees along the alignment of the road and only isolated large trees are within the
present shoulder. Conditions in portions of this segment of road have lead to a proposal for realignment
in a considerable portion as part of the RRMP-II actions, as well as dte proposed rehabilitation activities.
23.2 Overlay Areas
The overlay areas preliminary identified for the purposes of the analysis are indicated by the foregoing
Exhibit 1. As indicated by the Exhibit, the roadways designated for overlay are preliminary and may be
modified during the course of the project due to budget and other considerations. Such modifications are
not expected to materially change the potential environmental impacts of the project.
Overlay activities are expected to be completely confined to the existing ROW, with virtually no changes
to existing embankments. Documentation of existing conditions in these areas other than that providqd
by the Road Master Plan (RMP) has not been required as was the case for the rehabilitation areas
discussed above, or the realignment and bypass areas discussed below, both of which require earth
disturbing activities.
Because of the limited natLure of the work to be undertaken in the overlay areas, detailed inventories,
descriptions and field notes are neither necessary nor available for these areas. The description of the
Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions provided above provide the existing conditions for the analysis.
233 The New Alignment and Bypass Projects
233.1 Saidpur Bypass
Existing conditions of severe congestion and at times virtual immobility along the current roadway
through Saidpur has prompted consideration of a Saidpur Bypass. The existing road forms center of the
town commercial activities. The length over which this congestion occurs is quite short, only 1 to 1.5
kilometers and is caused largely by non-motorized traffic.
Two alternative bypass routes have been subjected to economic analysis as illustrated by Exhibit 6. They
are:
*     The Southern Ali nent - approximately four kilometers through semi-urban areas and one
kilometer thiough agricultural land. Earlier reports indicate that the southern alignment is the
more economically viable of the two alternatives. l is, however, the subject of some controversy
due to the requirement to relocate a substantial population, a cost which is presumably taken into
account in the economic analysis.  The souther  alignment will require acquisition of
approximately 26 hectares and affect 109 households, 53 of whom will lose cultivated land, 35
will lose treese.
A portion of the southern alignment as it is ww configured will coincide with an existing
roadway which, although not well paved or maintained, already carries substantial traffic and lies
Ernvirwu.d Aab%ds                                                   P,*k', rq-bk of Rlla h
Swavdfekailkad. & MAh_ume hujec                              Uh F=Wbw Pn,kfdd Dy The WUt Bonk



Pag 2-20                                                                                                   A4p  IWJ
D I.
N       E~~istin  rood foriming
-~~~~~                                 Yac~~~~~~~sidpu noiety(
by - pa..
RPule for  secuid
section  of soadpur
norlr%eny  by pe Ss
POsgiDIs ro                                    9"'                                    \
ior soulch rly
by- passL             4
EXHIBIT 6                                                                             SAIDPUR BYPASS
Fwnsom,aLAn.iu                                                                            P-k'       k AEp*& ofDBglWkh
SwecdRdubiLmioum & Maivmmur A *a                                                WV Fmdiug f/hW" 37 At WU MO&



April J993                                                                        Pagr 2-21
in the path of future urban growth. The alignent lies between the existing commercial areas
to the north and the airport and military cantomnent to the south. Accommodation of this
commercial development pressure in this area may be in the long-term interest of Saidpur, but
could reduce the bypass function of the future roadway, implying the need for an outer bypass
at some future date. This issue, and implications for mitigating actions, will be further discussed
in the impacts and mitigation sections of the analysis which follow.
*     The Northern Alienment - approximately 9 kilometers in total, of which the eastern halr is in fact
an existing road which would require up-grading to serve as a bypass. Configuration of the
existing portion is apparently derived from a need to avoid the existing railroad maintenance areas
and to provide access to an electrical plant located to the north of the city. The potential northern
alignment is not well configured to serve as a 'bypass' in the conventional sense due to its wide
and awkward deviation from the assumed desire line of traffic. It is also subject to commercial
activity where the existing portion joins the main road. Due to the configuration of the alignment
and the existing activity centers, however, it is not subject to the same intensity of commercial
development pressure along its length as is the case for the southern alignment.
Both alignmenits raise issues of adjacent land uses as will be discussed as part of potential impacts, Section
3.0.
2.3.32 Ghagot River Crossing Realignment
The Ghagot River Crossing Realignment (Exhibit 7) lies within the Saidpur-Rangpur rehabilitation
segment discussed above. The existing bridge crossing the Ghagot River is one lane wide and awkwardly
approached. Replacement of the bridge has been found to be economically justifiable and affords the
opportunity to rationalize the existing awkward and probably unsafe road aligmnent (Exhibit 7). The
alignment will require acquisition of approximately 4 hectares and affect 23 families, 20 of whom will
lose cultivatable land; two will lose trees.
2.33.3 Dasuna Interection
Existing conditions at the site of the proposed Dasuria Intersection are schematically indicated by Exhibit
8. The configuration has reportedly be devised to avoid an existing structure in the area. Field visits
indicate that the configuration would raise no substantial environmental issues. The new intsection will
pass througb thinly populated agricultural land and will require acquisition of approximately 2.4 hectares
of land. It will affect 18 families, 13 of whom would lose cultivatable land, 2 will lose trees.
2.33.4 Natore Bypass
Existing conditions prompting consideration of the Natore Bypass, Exhibit 9, are similar to those in
Saidpur, i.e., severe congestion in the urban area. Congestion is particularly bad between the bend in
the road close to the railway crossing. The road curves in such a way as to makce a bypass to the south
of the town an obvious first choice. At least two designs for a bypass have been proposed by earlier
efforts, including one by RHD. A third proposal is offer by the current project (Exhibit 9).
As proposed by RRMP, four kilometers of the bypass will be built on an existing embankment The
remainig two kilometers will require land acquisition in agricltural areas. 'he apparent distance from
EmSiwmu.rnu1AuaxyzIs                                                PeplwP-s Repuc of 3q fakmA
ScwrdhAbifadUn  & MJasmme Pmjcc                               RM Fudlng PJWd JDy Ike Wod Rank



Past 2-22                                                                FJ IW3
3.v
0~~£4 
-ZRD-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
'A A
'~~~ WK
A..
E49S80   -/ aoo                -L 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ eoq,t    I 
EXHIBIT 7                                        GHAGOT REALIGNMENT
Em*AmIauralANeIyafs                                         Pop1c's ,  r pubrk  Bqju_a
Secoudhhabilaam & MaiVazm h*cf                        N Frir       Djs 21, Waif "m



APUi 13Fq 2-23
TO NATORE
EXISTING KUTCHA
PROPOSED
DNTERSEC1AN               y1/\
> / > -       / /  EXISTING DASHUTRIA
</                 //  INTERSON~~I
EXHIBIT 8                                   DASURAI NTETON
Erueuml Aehu&                                          Npe_ Irs RaSpul of 1   zDwe"Y
3ew cmdPhabiimdmm & Mmauacmce Pvjec              UMM Fow Pro w"Um JNp Thw WeM So*t



Pig, 2-24                                                                                     Apg 1 W
Jklegnmont  v~~~~~I9n.n
Two bo fnds W                |                     
Tf  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
a H 0  AIni                               Prooe d hy- DOes
follows Slag of *.et,nag
gff.hoA be"m* ond us
co noflOeOl  -i R If D
Pmpo.d olhnmnl over
llHBIT 9                                                                    NATORE BYPASS
&cmd RAaM&urdm & MakVIwc Pt*a                                          iW  FaWdh hWe   Bye W.dlAi 



April 193                                                                         Page 2-25
the existing commercial center and the potential accommodation of urban expansion within the intervening
area indicate that the alignment is likely to function as a bypass to a greater degree than was the case for
the Saidpur southern alignment. Potential for inducement of urban development along the roadway is,
however, a consideration as will be discussed in Section 3.0. Field visits indicate that the assigmnent
traverses predominantly agricultural areas and that the major part of the aligmnent will be able to take
advantage of existing embanlaments. They will, however, require elevation and enlargement. Tree
removals will be required. It is estimated that the bypass will require the acquisition of approximately
30 hectares and affect 220 families, 131 of whom will lose cultivatable land, 45 of whom will lose trees.
2.33.5 Rajshahi-Nawabgaui Altenute Route
Existing conditions for the section of road replaced by the Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate Route were
presented in Section 2.3.1. The alternative alignment will replace the existing roadway which is parallel
and close to the GangesJPadma River and subject to erosion and periodic inundation. It passes through
village areas at its points of connection with the existing roadway, but otherwise passes through thinly
populated agricultural land. As indicated by Exhibit 10, various alternatives have been considered. All
would be more ambitious and costly and would have similar envirownental impacts. None appear to
offer any significant potential for avoidance of environmental impacts or less of a need for population
resettlement at the points of departure and re-connection to the existing alignment.
END NOTES F'OR SECTION 2 FOLLOW EXHIBIT 10
FaS_wmm,a.Ambaus                                                    PapWk, Rgpub of  lWEZh
Secgd Rdhaillrad. & MaJnK_e Projie                            wAt Fmdig Phm'da Dy 2ie WeU Bank



Page 2-26                                                                   APti 19I
0 o
.-~~~~~ 
Jo
EXHIBl  10  'J-'N/ A         gR
-     00
Second R_bme  & M_koe poWMFof Pnda Jyp Jk Wrifd J,Lt



AprVil J99                                                                         Pair 2-27
END NOTES TO EXSTMNG CONDMONS
1.    North West Regional Study (FAP-2), page 3.3.
2.    Ibid.
3.    Ibid.
4.    Baneladesh Flood Action Plan. Page 26.
5.    Bangladesh Environment Strategy Review. November 1991.
6.    North West Regional Study, op. cit., page 26.
7.    Southwest Area Water Resources Management, 1991.
8.    Baniladesh: Environment and Natural Resource Assessment, prepared for USAII, September
1990.
9.    Bangladesh Enviromnental Straterv Review, Tne World Bank, November 14, 1991
10.   Ibid, page 27.
11.   Bangladesh: Travel Survival Kit, 1991.
12.   USAID Programmatic Enviromnental Assessment (EA), 1991.
13.   Southwest Area Water Resources Management Plan, page 44.
14.   USAID Programmatic EA, op cit
15.   Ibid.
16.   Baniladesh: Travel Survival Kit, 1991.
17.   BangladeshEnvirommentaReview. Te World Bank, November 1991.
18.   Recent (15 Febmary 1993) newspaper accounts, for example, indicate that firewood is being used
as fuel despite government bans. A survey by social welfare activities in Sirajganji reported that
1,042 brickfield owners in 16 districts were not using coal as recommnended by the government.
Coal is reportedly available on the open market, but is more expensive than firewood.
19.   Baniladesh: Travel Survival Kit, 1991.
20.   USAID Programmatic EA, op. cit.
21.   Bangladesh Agriculture: Towards Self Sufficiency. Dr. Mushtaq Ahmed, 1988, page 1.
EnWAmma9dx                                                           PPk', I kAVUb of i.gadh
SecmdRakaMhwm & iafux_  h*a                                   UV Flding Pbwiar Ike W" Am*



Pase 2-28                                                                          ApdI 199i
22.   USAID Programmatic EA, page 31.
23.   Ahmed, op. cit., page 35.
24.   From Urbanization and Environmental Issues, Dr. Amanat Ullah Khan, published as an annex
to Bangladesh: Enviromnent and Natural Resource Assessment, World Resources Institute, Center
for International Development and Environment, for USAID, September 1990.
25.   Ahmed, op. cit.
26.   USAID Programmatic EA, op. cit.
27.   USAID Programmatic EA, page 40.
28.   Road Master Plan, page 16.
29.   Southwest Area Water Resources Management Plan, page 55.
30.   All data concerning numbers of affected families, loss of cultivatable land and trees are derived
from Socio-Economic Survey of Affected Families, RRMP-II, January 1993.
Em*udoAuaijuis                                                      PeaPJe IS RquMIc of Bow"&&t
Sm&k. Aabb0dmU  & MdWavamcg Pmujeu                            UI Fwmdbag ftpi&wd Sy lim WinE Bin*



3.0 Potential Impacts



- 3.0 POITNTIAL IMACTS
INTRODUCllON
Potential impacts from projects such as RRM-1I may be classified as:
*     Dir=c - i.e., impacts sucb as the removal of trees and vegetation to facilitate road construction.
*     lnd.ii.n - i.e., impacts resulting from activities prompted by the project, but not directly
attributable to it. The use of broken bricks as aggregate in the road program, for example, has
an indirect impact of increasing the demand for brick, the creation of brick manufacturing
operations, and the burning of either coal or wood to fire the bricks.
*     Cumulativ - i.e., impacts in conjunction with other activities. A single project may not exert
a significant environmental impact, but if several projects are developed in tandem in the same
area, the cumulative or additive effect can be large. Tne steady loss of wetlands in the study area
may be attributed to the cumulative impact of population growth and development activities.
Impacts may be short-term or long-term. In this instance, certain impacts will occur during the
construction period and will affect land use, air quality and other factors. Many of these impacts,
however, will be short-lived and without long-lasting effects. Even some relatively significant impacts
such as borrow pits, for example. may be eventually erased by the natural environment of the area in
general and annual flooding patterns in particular.
Impacts may be positive, as well as adverse. Some of the road construction imnpacts noted by the
Guidelines on Environmental Issues Related to Physical Plannine issued by the Bangladesh Ministry of
Local Government, for example, notes potential negative impacts of road development in Bangladesh as
related to: fisheries and flood plain ecology; erosion and siltation due to increased water flows and
velocity; and regional hydrology and flooding if roads are poorly designed. Negative impacts can also
result from the loss of agricultural land to other land uses; potential interference with iiavigption and boat
communication; air and water pollution; problems associated with scattered borrow pits; aDd haphazard
growth.
Positive aspects are identified by the Guidelines as the generation of employment opportunities during
construction; increasing the productivity of the remaining land; access to commercial and service
facilities; fast communications and commodity transport; improved access to markets and growth centers
and increased services and commercial facilities.
Potential impacts of all types vis-a-vis RRMP-II are addressed for each  vironmenal category in the
same sequence as the statment of existing conditions. Potential impacts of the overall program will be
assessed in programmatic terms for the project as a whole under the headings of physical and socio-
economic characteristics in Sections 3.1. and 3.2, respectively. Specific impacts will be presented for
areas of rehabilitation, overlay and the individual projects entailing new construction in Section 3.3.
_uAiru.mwumA-Ws     .                                                rt.1& RkWC Of _1udez
SmhRdmMaim, & M&LURM" AwJM                                   MA FWft Pvwi  By Thc wd Bait



Pqt 3-2                                                                           4Apr 1993
3.1. PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS
3.1.1 Topography/Soils/Geology
Impacts on topography, soils and geology of the project area will occur due to:
*     Changes to Embankments. Although the project will be largely confined to existing embankments
within existing rights-of-way (ROW), the rehabilitation activities and the bypass-realigmnent
orojects discussed in detail in Section 3.3 below will create new or raise and enlarge certain
cmbankments will impact topographic conditions in some areas. New embankments will be
required by the sub-projects.
*     Borrow pits. Enlargement or creation of new embanikments will necessitate the creation o.
'borrow pits i.e., areas from which soil is taken. The right to create such borrow pits is
negotiated between the road contractor and individual property owners. Current practice in the
project area is reported as the use of shallow borrow areas rather than pits, per se. Areas from
which soil is taken are dcscribed as recovering from these actions and returning to agricultural
use following one or more flood seasons. No provisions or guidelines to encourage that borrow
pits are restored in an enviromnentally sensitive manner are currently included in RRMP
contracts.
l     BrickfiCIds. The lack of stone for use of aggregate results in the manufacture of brick for use
as a building and aggregate material. The brickfields in which soils and clays are extracted and
fired to make brick are a form of strip-mining. In many areas, plots strip-mined in this fashion
are eventually retnimed to agricultural use and fertUity is returned to the soil through successive
flooding and silt deposits. In many areas, however, this is not the case. Brickfields unrestored
by either man or natural action are evident throughout the area, particularly in the northern, dryer
and less flood-prone areas. Alternatives to these actions are discussed in Section 4.
Other than the creation of borrow pits and the brickfields, soil impacts which generally result from road
construction are muted due to the fact that the projea concentaes on existing roads within existing
embankments. The risk of so;l impacts due to vehicle spills, etc., are arguably reduced due to the
improvement in safety factors and lessening of accident threats. No impacts on the seismic risk inherent
in the area are anticipated as a result of the project.
3.12 HydroloU
3.12.1 Mhe Rajshadhi Division
Surface Hydrology: The surface hydrology of the Rajshahi portion of the study area is not expected to
adversely impacted by the proposed project. Amounts of additional runoff will be small. Drainage in
some areas will be improved due to the creation of improved bridges and culverts. Potential impacts on
flood charactisics are discussed below.
Weiland Characteristics: Improved drainage in certain areas could have an impact on wetlands, but
no significant areas of direct impact have been identified. The area of bee! wetlands, refered tD
collectively as the Chalan Beel, perhaps the most important wedand area in the Rajshahi portion of the
PeepIs Rep"& Of5mgladah                                                    Ea,.xuanl A&a ja_
rM& FwJM  tWdald 11 Th Wad B.imk                            Steca,dNdmbWrm & AMauunm, Ph.*c



ApJU J993                                                                          Pag, 3-3
potentially affected area, is fed by storm runoff, inflow from the Atrai and backup from the Brahmaputra
(through the Hurasagar) which will not be directly impacted by the RRMP. Cumulative impacts resulting
from both improved transportation and agricultural development, however, can be anticipated. As noted
in the foregoing statement of existing conditions, wetlands in this area have been reduced by poldering
and drainage for agriculture and extensive groundwater development for irrigation in the 1980.' The
cumulative impact of the RRMP and related development projects are likely to continue this trend.
Flood Charcteristics: Flooding problems in the Rajshahi Division are mainly derived from direct
rainfall with drainage congestion at the Hurasagar River outfall, and overbank flow from several major
regional rivers, most of which drain into the Jamnuna/Brahmaputra. Backwater floods on the Atrai are
a problem as are flash floods within the Atrai originating from the Himalayan piedmont and also from
the Barind tract.
Earlier RRMP activities have had impacts on flood events. It was assumed in earlier stages of the project
that recent and scheduled flood control, drainage and irrigation schemes would limit and future flood
flows and safely regulate rainfall. It was assumed that runoff and that drainage provisions could be
calculated accordingly. Based on that assumption, it was believed that design profile grade line elevations
could be lowered and existing bridge and culvert openings eliminated or reduced to accommodate only
local drainage. The results of the 1987 and 1988 floods and the re-evaluations that followed lead to tde
abandomment of those assumptions. Design parameters for bridges, culverts and other drainage structures
were re-evaluated.
On the basis of that re-evaluation and as documented by the Drainaze Re-Design Report (August 1989),
cross-drainage capacities were increased and additional culverts provided in areas inundated by the 1987
and 1988 floods. It is expected that the expanded capacities will significantly reduce flood velocities and
other problems, thus minimizing erosive damage.
Design flood levels are based on information compiled by the RMP indicating depths for a 2G-year period
flood event; information gathered from RHD following the 1987 and 1988 floods; and additional data
resulting from RRMP-1. Flooa designs are now based on the premise that national roads should be able
to stand on their own against flood risks and provided with cross-dainage facilities to pass design floods
without undue rdiance on controls by other schemes. They should not be allowed to act as secondary
flood control schemes. Waterway openings of replacenents for existing or temporary bridges have been
maintained or ;ncreased in cross-section to prevent overopping of roads during 20-year flood events with
a 1 in 20 chance that structures will flow full or be overtaxed in a particular year. Design capacities of
existing and replacement brides are determined using weir and orifice formulas and equating upstream
and downstream flood discharge for a range of flow velocities and heads. Normal scour is calculated.'
The provision of drainage openings through the road embanknent in numbers and at locations sufficient
to keep static head differential to a minimum and reduce water velocities during flooding has been
adopted as a key feature. Larger capacity box culverts are used in areas of high flood risk. Rather than
reducing the capacity of openings as had previously been the case, the geneal policy has been changed
to replace existing culverts with the same or greater capacity. TIhe road sections designated as flood-
prone are provided with additional cross-dainage capacity. In areas of flat terrain, equalizers or relief
culverts are provided at regular intervals.
These re-designs, combined with the fact that the project is largely confined to exisfing rights-of-way
FaWmmhma a mbds                                                     e"PkI ReulC of SWWhdnh
S5d RahaiWd  Mub.Au.mce A                                    ElM Fadag RMvd adl 2he Wel IwA



Pag 3i4                                                                           Apr 1993
implies little additional runoff and minimal impact on flood characteristics. A review of the North West
Re ional Study of the Flood Action Plan (October 1991) indicates nO data or recommendations that would
suggest firther changes to the RRMP's current approaches. Replacement of bridges, culverts and other
drainage structures is an issue in the Rajshahi Division only because all new construction and
rehabilitation actions in RRMP-II are confined to Rajshabi Division (See Exhibit 1). Continued
monitring of the simation, including the availabiliky of additional data is advisable.
7.L2.2 i"unoa Division
Surfat Hydrology: The distributor channels which finger the Khulna Division, including the Gorai and
the Madhumuti Rivers, are not expected to be directly impacted by RRMP activities. Activities in this
area are confined to overlay actions only in this area and no significant change of surface hydrology is
anticipated.
Wetland Characteristics: Much of the Khulna portion of the study area is classified as wetlands of one
kind or another. Mangrove forest to the south including the Sundarbans are of particular concern. Ibe
proposed project is expected to have little direct impact on these areas, but indirect and cumul.Aive
impacts related to greater overall development in the area can be anticipated.
Flood Characteristics: Only overlay activities are scheduled in this area with no changes to bridges and
culverts. Additional runoff resulting from the overlay actions will be slight. Drainage obstruction by
road enbankments contributing to certain types of flooding in the area may be alleviated to a degree by
the proposed project. Storm surge floods will not be materially affected. A review of Southwest Area
Water Resources Management Project (FAP4, November 1992) suggested no change to the RRMP-I
proposals to datc.
3.1.3 Biological Resources
Flora: The mostly isolated stands of trees in a few intact woodlands in the Barind areas of western
Bangladesh are not expected to be adversly affected by the proposed project.
Other than the five sub-projects detailed below, cultivated homestead woodlands have been avoided by
the project because actions are confined to existing ROWs, particularly in the southwestern portion of the
study area. Homeseads which are affected by the five re-alignment and bypass projects are discussed
under the heading of the individual projects. Section 3.3. Herbaceous wetlands of sedges and rushes and
Mangrove woodlands will not be directly impacted, but are subject to indirect and cumulative impacs
due to related developments.
None of the plants listed by the Convention on Intcrnational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna
and Flora (CITES) or the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) are expected to be
impacted by the proposed project. As noted in the foregoing statement of existing conditions, however,
the absence of analysir and surveys of the area preclude a definitive finding.
Fauna: No unique animal habitat areas are expected to directly impacted by the proposed project. No
species of special status are expected to be impacted. As noted in the statement of existing conditions,
however, wetlands and homestead forest areas are extensive and important habitat areas for non-special
status species. Welands habitats and the species that inhabit them may, as noted above, be impacted
ESWnNX,vl_.Alyds                                                    PamyIr, lipuk& of fmgldnl
&cm.dfxlhdaida & mainawc p11je                                Ms Findig Fvs4g ly e1s WorY Bi.k



ApU 1993                                                                          P  J-S
indirectly dirough cumulative development activities.
3.1.4 Meteoroloy & Air Quality Characteristics
Air quality impacts will result due to construction activities, including brick and asphalt manufactring,
earth-moving and dust creating activities, the activities of construction vehicles and traffic carried by the
improved roads. None are expected to be significantly adverse.
Impacts during the construction period will be relatively short-lived. In spite of the lack of ambient air
quality data, they are not expected to be significantly adverse. The degree of impact from these activities,
however, can be mitigated though good engineering practice, particularly dust control, and selection of
construcion materials as will be discussed in Section 5.0.
Air quality impacts will also occur due to traffic using the roadways. In general terms, however, the
improvements will accommodate traffic whicb would have been using area roads even in the absence of
the proposed improvements. In addition to the safety improvements, the project will lessen traffic
congestion, one of the primary facors affecing vehicle-induced air quality impacts, and the generation
of dust from traffic using shoulders, etc. Air quality will be impacted by growing traffic throughout
Bangladesh. The proposed project will lessen the severity of the impact which would have resulted from
continued use of poorly paved and congested roads.
No significant impacts to overall dimatic characteristics wre anticipated. Fuel consumption in this part
of Bangladesh will contribute to global dimatic conditions. but less so than is likely to have been the case
withorzt the project.
3.1 - Noise Charactnisties
Noise impacts will occur during the construction period due to construction activities. Tbese are not
considcred to be significanly adverse impacts necessitating mitigation measures, other than confining
constuction to daylight hours as is already stipulatd by contract documents. Vehides using the
radways are also noise generators. The amount of noise generated. however, is liklyd to be significantly
less if taffic congestion is alleviated.
3.    COMMUNITY & SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACERISCS
32.1   Population
Short-erm population impacts can be nicipatd due to the accommodation of temporary workers during
the construction period. Long-term population impacts, such as inducement of migrants into the area or
significant changes in demographic charactritics are oot anticipated. It could be argued that the
cumulative effect of improvement in rural areas will lssen rates of out-migration. Geneally, however,
these rat  are detmind by laer eonomic forces. Resetldement of populations residing in the sub-
pojct ares will be required as quantified in Section 3.3 below. Compensaton will be paid for
resetlement as stipulaed in the Resnlemen P  a ry 1993), if approved. The project will not,
however, provide resettlement sites and reseLiemn wil occr over a wide area, thereby precludiqg
centrated impacts in any given loation.
b*wm.ud*ipa_g                                                      hqIWWe&RV"* ofD.,gkdeh
Sgmd R6OMb    a MMmm' ft t huj4                              MA FwdLg h.d * 7he WeE Rod



Page 3-4                                                                         AprU J99J
Particular attention has been called to the potential impact of worker camps in conjunction with the
project. Based on the experience of RRMP-I, contactor camps are craaed by the successfuil bidders for
the housing of supervisor and other selected personnel, as well as the storage of equipment, vehides, and
asphalt manufacturing operations. The sites and conditions established for the creation of the camps are
individually negotiated with the landowner. The vast majority of workers, however, are hired from and
contnue to reside in the local communities. As noted in the statement of existing conditions, population
is evenly distributed throughoutthe area. Workers who may follow the construction activities seekshelter
within the local communities or camp in widely dispersed areas, thereby avoiding concentrated impacts
in any given area.
ConstrUction camps are disassembled upon completion of the conract. Areas visited in the course of the
enviromnental field investigations were returned to full agriculturl use. At present, however, contract
specifications contin no stipulations in regard to the siting and construction of such canps or
requirements for environmenl restoration.
3X.2 Economic Structure
Economic justifications for the proposed project and the sub-projects contained within it are fully
documented by earlier reports. The project's effect on the overall economic environment and economic
structure will be to reinforce the econmic viability of the area, in keeping with national economic and
devdopment goals. Construction budgets wDl have a significant and beneficial impact on the study area's
economy.
It should be oted that the roads in question form the strucure of a linear commercial development with
perwodic concentaions of commercial activities. Although the cities of the area are relatively small,
nodes of commercial activities exist along the road at relativdy consistent intervals, at times threatening
to lose the road with the congestion they create. Thus, although the RRMP roads (and others such as
the munor roads created with the Care road program) are successful at goods to market, there is not
always a market (in the physical sense) once they get there. lbis lessens the economic viability of the
road investmen fTom a taffic perspecve. as well as the economic development potential of the
commercial activity it promotes.
As pat of the overall environmental enhancement of the projec, as well as to make road trvdel aore
efficient. therefore, it will be recommended that accommodation of such activities should be more fiully
taken into account and incorporated with in the projea. This issue will be discussed under the heading
of mitigation and enhancem  actions. Section 4.0.
3.2.3 Enwa  Consumption        sa
Ene   consumption charaeristics will be improved through more efficient road operations and the
reduction of conestion. Fuel consumption characteristi  during the construction period, however,
presenm a potentially avoidable advere envionenl impact  As previously noted, broken bricks
manufactured in the local area are the primary source of aggregate for road construction and ar fired
usually dtrough the illegal use of wood as fuel. Road improvement projects are one of the prmary
markets for these bricms.
At a mlimum, the project could stipulate (and enforce) a requir n tat bricks fired by wood will not
&is  rp-p  q'd5m,d                                 _Apntp
"Ad Fw hsPd 8, 7w Wm_ Dmod RgaW m 6 Mwimpzg ?mjea



4lj 1993                                                                          Pdt 3.7
be allowed for use in the project. More importantly, however, there is an apparently cheaper alternative
to the usc of brick as aggregate: lime consolidation. This issue will be further discussed as a mitigation
measure in Section 4.0.
3.2.4 Transport and Access Characteristics
Impacts to the transportation network and its operations will occur during both the construction and
operational phases of the project. Road construction and tansport of construction materials will delay
other traffic and cause unavoidable detours. Contracts for the work contain provisions to ensure that
these disruptions are minimized. Beneficial impacts will accrue during the operation phase of the project
due to more efficient operations and reduction of congestion. As noted above, however, this aspect of
the project might be enhanced through coordination with land control activities in the vicinity of cities
and commercial activity centers along the road way. Access and egress controls and accommodations
of market activities will be discussed as a potential mitigation/enhancement measure.
3.2.5 Cultural Resources
Because the RRMP-II is confined mainly to improvement in existing ROWs, potential impacts to cultural
resources are minimized and largely confined to land acquisition activities related to the five identified
sub-projects discussed in Section 3.3.3. The Saidpur Bypass situation should be particularly noted.
3.3    THE RRMP-UI ACTION AREAS
33.1  Rehabilitation Action Areas
33.1.1 Rangpur to Saidpur
Impacts in this segment of the project will include the widening of the existing pavement 6.7 meters with
1.25 meters shoulders. Existing embankments are not sufficient to allow the 7.3 meter width that would
generally be required for this category of road. It is estimated that a widening of 1-2 meters would be
required to achieve this standard and a widening of this amount has been determined to have severe
economic and environmental costs. The restricted width is considered justified because long stretches
of the existng road are straight, development along the road is quite limited, and projected traffic is well'
within the capacity of the recommended width.3
In spite of this approach, as noted in the statement of existing conditions, there are some matmre trees
along the road and extensive areas cf smaller trees and shrubs on the embankment slopes which fall
within the restricted enlargement area. Isolated mature tress will be felled throughout the road length and
it is estimated that all vegetation will be cleared for 30 percent of the length from one side of the
embankment to allow the necessary earthworks.
3.3.1.2 Natore-Dasuria
The Natore-Dasuria rehabilitation segment will be widened to a national standard of 7.3 meters with 1.5
meter shoulders. Some loss of vegetaion can be expected.
6 _,*mmWAialis                                                       Npkas NipubB of Rn.gLkd_
Sc&Rd :-nu, & Ma_u,wwe Plljec'                              U  Famtlg Pm4dd I* Th Wwld Bmu



page 34                                                                          AHa 193
3.3.1.3 Natore-Rajshahi
The existing pavement will be widened to 7.3 meters with 1.25 meter shoulders. Sharp bends at the west
end of the new Musakahan Bridge (N6C-20) and through Saibpur will be improved. Otherwise,
alignments will remain unchanged. There are a number of old narrow bridges that impede traffic flow
which will be replaced, consistent wit the revised approach discussed under the heading of Flood
Characteristics. A significant number of large trees will have to be felled to provide unobstructed
shoulders and sight lines, but generally these will be on one side of the road only at any given location
and an effort has been made to save as many of the trees as possible. The resource value of the trees
wil, howvever, be fully realized through sale for use as building materials, etc.
3.3.1.4 Rajshaii-Nawabgau
Within the rehabilitation areas, the horizontal alignment will be improved apj roximately 400 meters at
the west end of the new Musakhan Bridge (N6-C-20) and for a total length of about 2 kilometers between
Kilometers 22 and 28.5. Otherwise the existing alignment will be followed veiy closely. The new 7.3
meter pavement width with 1.5 meter shoulders (niaximum) can be accommodated within the existing
embankament in nost places and additional earthworks will be small.
Clearance of trees will be required at the site of the earthworks and at new bridges and culverts. A
number of mature trees will. be felled to provide unobstructed shoulders and sight lines, but in order to
minimize the losses, these actions will be confined to only one side of the road at any given location,
thereby preserving the trees on the other side.
3.3.2 Overlay Areas
Direct impacts in the overlay areas will be minimal. Work will be confined to existing ROWs without
realigmnents or widenings. Indirect and cumulative impacts resulting from these actions have already
been discussed as a part of the overall program.
3.3.3 The New Alignment and Bypass Projects
3.3.3.1 Saidpur Bypass
Relatively detailed alignment plans and resettlement schemes have been prepared for the southern bypass
aligmment of Saidpur. The northern bypass route, on the other hand, is not considered to be economically
justified until sometime after 2002 and is not currently included in the proposed project. The southern
alignment will require acquisition of approximately 26 hectares and affect 109 households, 53 of whom
will lose cultivated land, 35 will lose trees.
The environmental consequences of the southern bypass route are primarily urban and social. The
alignment passes througb approximately four kilometers of semi-urban areas and one kilometer through
agricultural land and will require the relocation of a substantial population. Much of the alignment lies
in the path of fture urban growth, and construction of the bypass may, in fact, serve to direct growth
ifi that direction. If so, it will become subject to intense commercial pressure in the area between the
existing commercial areas to the north and the airport and military cantonment to the south.
Whether these impacts are adverse or beneficial depends on the criteria being applied. Accommodation
E ;naainaAmyls                                                      P-pkes Rcpub& of BaaugldeA
Semmd ReHan  & Ma _mw. P1 jea                                MM Fming hvw&d Oy The World Snk



April 993                                                                          Page 3-9
of this commercial development pressure may be in the long-term interest of Saidpur and form a part of
a viable urban growth strategy. It would, at the same time, however, reduce the bypass function of the
future roadway, implying the need for an outer bypass at some future date. A conscious urban
development strategy for Saidpur based on that premise would not appear unreasonable. No conscious
urban development strategy, however, appears to have been formulated or coordinated with local officials,
perhaps in part due to the resettlement controversy in the area. Even if the resettlement issues are
resolved, however, and the southern bypass alignment is realized, impacts on community land use and
impacts on the road from these land uses will occur to the detriment of both unless mitigation actions of
the type discussed in Section 5.0 are undertaken.
As described in detail in the Socio-Economic Surey of Affected Families issued by RRIM-HI in January
1993, there may be some resistance to the southern alignment, largely due to the amount of resettlement
necessary at its western extremity and the perception of viable northern alternative. The southern
alignment may also require the removal of graveyards and a Madrasha (religious school) on Waqf
(religious trust) property. This constitutes a cultural resource issue. Acquisition of such properties for
these purposes is reportedly contrary to Bangladesh law as discussed by the Socio-Economic Survey.
33.3.2 Ghagot River Crossing Realgned Route
The realignment and new bridge at the Ghagot River will substantially improve safety and operating
conditions. The nature of the construction will require a new embankment, earth-moving and the use of
borrow pits. It will require approximately 4 bectares and affect 23 families, 20 of whom will lose
cultivatable land; two will lose trees. Beneficial impacts will result from the improved alignmen;,
replacement of the existing one-lane bridge and the safety improvements inherent in these actions.
3.3.33 Dasuria Intersection
The new configuration of the Dasuria intersection indicates that it will pass through thinly populated
agrcultural land and will avoid the few structures in the area. It will require the acquisition of
approximately 2.4 hectares of land and affect 18 families, 13 of whom would lose cultivatable land, 2
will lose trees. Beneficial impacts will consist of improved traffic movements.
333.4 Natore Bypass
The alignment proposed for the Natore Bypass will use an existing embankment south of the city. The
embankment is assumed to be a flood embankment and provides ready-made access for the contractor,
simplifies land acquisition and minimizes the amount of necessary earthworks. The currently proposed
aligmnent differs from earlier RHD proposals by shortening the length of the bypass as indicated by the
foregoing Exhibit 9. The currendy proposed alignment would leave the N6 to the east of Natore near
existing flour mills and pass through 1 kldometer of fairly open agricultaral land before crossmg over the
irrigation canal and joining the existing embanknent. The alignment would adhere to the embankment
before veeing off to the northwest, passing over the irrigation canal again and the railway line to the east
of an existing sugar mill before rejoining the N6 to the west of Natore. The route would be
apprximately 5.5 kilometers long and would replace 5.25 kilometers of the existing N6 through the
town. Four kilometers of the bypass will be built on an existing embankment. The remaining 1.5-2
kilometes will require land acquisition in agricultural areas. It is estimated that the bypass will require
the acquisition of approximately 30 hectares and affect 220 families, 131 of whom will lose cultivatable
Pep'es Rep*ic ofDaugldmA                                                  EAWinewiaAv4d.
WIA Fadig Avoda A lbme W,  ak                               Sem.d Rd.aMl5  & Mak,werProjetr



Pop 3-10                                                                       Apil 1993
land, 45 of whom will lose trees.
Impacts of this proposal will be influenced by the apparent distance from the existing commercial center.
The potential accommodation of urban expansion within the intervening area indicate that the alignment
is likely to function as a bypass to a greater degree than was the case for the Saidpur southern alignment.
Potential for inducement of urban development along the roadway is, however, a consideration suggesting
a need for mitigating actions as will be discussed in Section 5.0.
33.3.5 Rqjshahi-Nawabgavj Alternate Route
The Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate Route , Alternative B on the foregoing Fxhibit 10, will replace the
existing roadway which is parallel and close to the Ganges/Padma River and subject to erosion and
periodic inundation as a result. It passes through village areas at its points of connection with the existing
roadway, but otherwise passss through thinly populated agricultual land. As indicated by Exhibit 10,
various alternatives have been considered. All would be more ambitious and costly and would have
similar environmental impacts. None appear to offer any significant potential for avoidance of
environmental ivmpacts, including some degree of population resettlement at the points of departure and
re-connection to the existing alignment. The new route will require the acquisition of approximately 58
hectares and affect 328 families, 300 of whom will lose cultivatable land, 28 will lose trees.
END NOTES - SECTION 3
1.    Bangladesh Flood Action Plan. Environmental Position Paner. October 1991, page 26.
2.    Pre-Investinent Study, RRMP-H, May 1992, page 5.10.
3.    RRMP-n Pre-Investment RepoMt, May 1992, page 4.5.
4.    All data concerning numbers of affected famil.es, loss of cultivatable land and trees are derived
from Socio-Economic Survey of Affected Families, RR1MP-H, January 1993.
Peopk's Repubc of Baldtz                                                EA-y3s
WIih F&din Pvviaf IY The WiBo.                            Semt5d Rdmm  & MaNuac P?jea



4.0 Alternatives



4.0 ALTERNATIVES
INTRODUCTION
The purpose of the Alternatives section of the analysis is to compare proposed investment design, site,
technology, and operational alternatives in terms of their potential environmental impacts; capital and
recurrent costs; suitability under local conditions; and institutional, training, and monitoring requirements.
The enviromental costs and benefits for each alternative (if any) are estimated to the extent possible.
Economic values are attached if warranted and feasible.
4.1    ALTERNATIVE TO THE REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
RRMP is based on the finding that improvements to existing roadways, predominantly within the existing
rights-of-way, are the most economical, as well as the most environmentally sound, approach to the
improvement to road transport in support of development in Bangladesh. Although the origins of the
RRMP pre-date it, the finding is supported by the Road Master Plan and its supporting documentation.
In spite of severe problems in operations, maintenance and narrow pavements, roads in the Bangladesh
in general and within the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions in particular are considered generally good in
their extent of networking. The network provides a relatively high level of access to goods and services
throughout the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions.
A 'no action altenative to the RRMP implies that necessary road improvements would not be made.
This course of action implies that the current unsafe road conditions would continue, except insofar as
these conditions could be addressed by other means. Improvement in drainage patterns due to the
improvement in bridges and drainage structures would not occur. Congestion would continue and worsen
as road conditions continued to deteriorate. Alleviation of noise and air quality problems associated with
the high levels of congestion in settlement areas would not occur and would be likely to worsen as
congestion intensified. Transport costs and energy consumption would continue to escalate due to the
continued and worsening inefficiency of traffic flow. Enhaned access to markets and other benefits of
impmved transportation resulting from the RRMP improvements would not occur. The 'no action'
alternative would result in no significant reduction of cumulative impacts of population growth in the.
study area. Given these detrimental aspects of the 'no action" alternative to the RRMP, the documented
cost-effectiveness of the program and the virtual lack of significant adverse environmental impacts for
which appropriate mitigation actions cannot be incorporated in the project, the 'no action" alternative to
RRMP-I is perceived as imprudent and counter to national goals.
The option of developing an altnative network of roads, as opposed to the RRMP approach of
improving the existing road network and concentrating actions within existing ROWs, has also been
considered. The consideration indicates that an alternative road network would be both unnecessary and
detrimental. As described in the foregoing project description and statement of existing conditions, the
road networks of the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions are generally good in extent, but in poor condition.
Developing an alternative networks in the face of the existing systems would be costly in both economic
and environmental terms. Anlysis indicates no alternative networking or transport systems which could
yield a comparable level of benefits and avoidance of adverse enviromental impacts. As noted in section
EmWrmm.nraAwali5u                                                 Popk's Repubc of RBaukde
SmhI RdbagLan & Mazutm,c Pirj_c                            WZih Fm&ng )vWda Rty The Wrd Bank



Par 42                                                                           AHI 1993
1, RRMP activities are defined within the context of the Road Master Plan (RMP) and incorporates the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM) to ensure a balance between investment and
maintenance, construction of various categories of roads, bridges and ferry services, rehabilitation and
other services. Although such models do not always take environmental costs fully into account, no
substantial discrepancies are perceived in this applicalion that would suggest substantial revisions to the
RRMP approach and concentration of activities on improvement of the existing network.
An approach structured along the lines of the RRMP is, therefore, perceived as the most beneficial course
of action and one which mininiizes enviromental impacts, while at the same time enhancing access and
improving safety throughout the project area. Current road conditions and safety would deteriorate.
A program structured along the lines of RRMP, therefore, is considered to be the most prudent and
environmentally sound course of action. Alternatives within the program are discussed below in terms
of alternative construction techniques and sub-project proposals, including 'no action' alternatives to each
of these proposals.
4.2    ALTERNATIVE REHABIUTATION & IMPROVEMENT TECBIQUES
Alternative rehabilitation and improvement techniques, as well as networking strategies, are evaluated
through use of the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) discussed above. The
model is periodically run and calibrated to take the realities of the Bangladesh situation and changing
variables into account. The model provides of means of analyzing the cost-effectiveness of alternative
improvement techniques versus their initial capitol, operating costs, expected economic life, maintenance
implications, etc. Results of the alternatives analysis are documented by periodic reports, including the
RRMP-ll Preliminary Engineering and Feasibility Report, 31 May 1992. As also noted above, although
such models do not always take enviromnental costs fully into account, no substantial discrepancies are
perceived in this application.
Within the context of this approach, the most notable question of alternative materials within the RRMP,
and one having significant environmental implications, is the substitution of lime stabilization for the
contiued use of broken bricks as aggregate for the reasons described in Section 2.0 of this report. Use
of lime stabilization technology has been tested under RRMP-I. It avoids the indirect environmental
impact associated with illegal use of wood or imported coal as a fuel to fire bricks, as well as the
environmental consequences of the brickfield extraction operations. Although the use of lime also
requires extraction elsewhere, it generally does not do so in agricultural areas with the fertility of the
areas devoted to brickyard use in Bangladesh. Economic analysis indicates that lime stabilization is
cheaper, as well as being less environmentally disruptive. iTis issue will be fiurther discussed as part of
recommended mitigation and enhancement measures, Section 5.0.
4.3 ALTERNATIVES TO TIE BYPASS & REAUJGNMENT PROPOSAL
Alternatives to the individual bypass and realignment proposals have been studied in detail for each of
the proposals as discussed in the statement of potential impacts, Section 3.0. It has also been deemed
advisable to examine the option of 'no action' alternatives for each of the sub-prjects requiring new
construction, acquisition and resettlement. The various alternatives to the proposed actions, as well as
EiWndrmuu.auAnalyds                                                P     Rpk's Ppcof Ra-q"de
Scamd Rcabion & Maineac ProjeC                               Wa Fmdig Puiii Dy At Wmi ank



Apil 1993                                                                          Pt 4-3
the impact of -no action", at each of the sub-project locations may be summarized as follows. With the
exception of unresolved issues surrounding the bypass of Saidpur, it is clear that the selected alternatives
are those which produce the least environmental disruption, while at the same time achieving the goals
of the project.
4.3.1 Saidpur Bypass Alermatives
Existing conditions of severe congestion and at times virtal immobility along the current roadway
through Saidpur have prompted consideration of a Saidpur Bypass. The existing road forms center of
the town commercial activities. The length over which this congestion occurs is quite short, only 1 to
1.5 kilometers and is caused largely by non-motorized traffic.
*     The "No Action' Alternative - A 'no action' alternative in lieu of the proposed Saidpur Bypass
would result in the continued congestion and loss of economic benefits calculated for the project.
Traffic movements would continue to be impeded; cormnercial activities in the center of the
community and through traffic would continue to be in conflict. Improvements in economic
efficiency, reductions in fuel consumption, air quality and noise impacts associated with the
current congestion would not occur. Acquisition of properties and resettlements, on the other
hand, would not be required. In Lght of the severe congestion and the benefits to be realized by
action to alleviate the problems associated with it, the "no action" alterative is judged to be
neither prudent not in the best interest of Bangladesh or the community of Saidpur.
*     The Northern Alignment Alternative - The northern alignment alternative (illustrated by the
foregoing Exhibit 6) is approximately 9 kilometers in length, of which the eastern half is in fact
an existing road which would require substantial up-grading. The alignment established by the
existing road is not well configured to serve as a "bypass" in the conventional sense due to its
wide and awkward deviation from the assumed desire line of traffic. It is also subject to
commercial activity where the existing portion joins the main road. Due to the configuratiorn of
the aligrnent and the existing activity centers, it is not subject to the same intensity of
commercial development pressure along its length as is the case for the southern alignment,
discussed below.  The northern aligmnent does not encounter significant resettlement
requirements or raise other significant enviromnental issues. The configuration of the alignment
and the costs involved in its realization, however, does not satisfy the World Bank's requirements
for economic justification until sometime after the year 2000 according to current analysis. It is,
therefore, not considered to be eligible for inclusion in RRMP-II at the present time. When and
if it does become supportable from the perspective of traffic engineering and economic analysis,
it would present no significant potential for adverse environmental impact.
*     The Southn Alignent - The Saidpur Bypass souther alignment is approximately four
kilometers through semi-urban areas and one kilometer through agricultural land. Economic
analyses indicate that it is the more economically justifiable than the northern alignment at the
present time and is, therefore, the preferred altemative. It is, however, the subject of some
controversy due to the requirement to relocate a substantial population, the cost of which is
reported to have been taken into account in the economic analysis. The southern alignment will
require arquisition of approximately 26 hectares and affect 109 households, 53 of whom will lose
cultivated land, 35 will lose trees'.
EnW,imnfalA.aysJ                                                    Pe.eI RpUb Of D.IL.az
Swcmdhbdmm & Makbamu P'jea                                   11 Fumdbn huWda JNy The Wwi Bo*



Parp 44                                                                         ApIUJ9J
Avoidance of adverse enviromental impacts in the realization of the southern aligmment will
require mitigation in the form of resettlement compensation which is the subject of. a separate
report and coordination efforts with local officials in the community of Saidpur. Mitigation
recommendations are discussed in full in Section 5 in accordance with the outline suggested by
die World bank's Operational Directive 4.01. Briefly, however, it may be noted that a portion
of the southern alignment as it is now configured will coinc ide with an existing roadway which,
although not well paved or maintained, already carries substantial traffic and lies in the path of
future urban growth. 'Me alignment lies between the existing commercial areas to the north and
the airport and military cantonment to the south.  Accommodation of this commercial
development pressure in this area may be in the long-term interest of Saidpur, but could reduce
tde bypass function of the future roadway, implying the need for an outer bypass at some future
date. This issue, and implications for mitigating actions, will be further discussed in the
mitigation section of the analysis which follows.
Resolution of the resettlement and urban planning issues as recommended herein would alleviate the
potential for realization of the Saidpur Bypass southern alignment. In the event that the norther alignment
re-examined and determined to be acceptable from other perspectives (e.g., from economic and traffic
engineering perspectives), the alignment would present no significant potential for adverse environmental
iinpact.
4.3.2 Ghagot River Crossing Realignment:
A 'no action alternative in lieu of the proposed Ghagot River Crossing Realignment would result in the
continued unsafe conditions as a result of the sharp turning movements use of existing one-lane bridge.
Traffic movements would continue to be impeded. Acquisition of properties and resettlements, on the
other hand, would not be required. The current unsafe configuration of the approaches to the crossing,
the minimal nature of anticipated environmental impacts and the economies to be gained by the realization
of the proposed realignment and river crossing render the 'no action' alternative imprudent.
Other than the 'no action" alternative, no reasonable alternatives to the alignment of the proposed Ghagot
River Crossing have been identified or considered warranted.
4.3.3 Dasuria Intersection
A 'no action' alternative in lieu of the proposed Dasuria Intersection implies continued use of the exiting
intersection, with the possibility of improvements within the existing ROW. Traffic movements would
not be as well facilitated. Acquisition of properties and resettlements, on the other hand, would not be
required. The minimal nature of anticipated enviromental impacts and the improvements to traffic flow
to be gained by the realization of the proposed intersection render the 'no action' alternative imprudent
Other than the 'no action' altnative, no reasonable alternatives to the aligmnent of the proposed Dasuria
Intersection have been identified or considered warranted.
4.3.4 Natore Bypass
A 'no action' alternative in lieu of the proposed Natore Bypass would result in the continued congestion
fAiwMmand AnaW                                                     P-.    W"  of fq' da&
Swcd Rd&hMsagm & MainsmiceIjea                               *i Fuindg PlmWd y The WVork JBw*



ApeijougiPag 4-S
and loss of aonomic bencfits calculated for the project. Trffic movements would continue to be
impeded; commercial activities in the center of the community and though traffic would continue to be
in conflict. Reduction in the emission of air pollutants and noise due to reduced congestion would no
be realized. Acquisition of properties and resetlements, on the other hand, would not be required. The
minimal nature of anticipated environmental impacts and the environmental and economic benefits to be
gained by the realization of the proposed Natore Bypass render the 'no action' altenative imprudent.
At least two designs for a bypass of Natore have been proposed by studies preceding the current RRMP
proposal. Both would be more costly tham the proposed configuration, require disruption over greater
distances and would not have offsetting advantages. Botb are considered inferior to the current proposal.
Other than the two earlier designs and the 'no action' siternative, no reasonable altematives to the
alignment of the proposed Natore Bypass have been identified or eonsidered warranted.
43.S Rajshahi-Nawrbpnj Alternate Route
A 'no action' alternative in lieu of the proposed Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alterate Route would result in
continued usc of thc existing alignment. As noted in Section 2.3.1, the road alignment is poor with many
small curves. Embankment heights are inadequate over at least 50 percent of the length and subject to
erosion and periodic inundation by the GangeslPadima River. Pavement widths are narrow and unsafe.
These problems, along with their anendant safety and econamic implications, would continue under the
'no action' tJtenativc. Acquisition of properties and resenlements, on the other hand, would not be
required. Tbe current unsafe conditions, the limited nature of anticipated environmental impacts and the
economies to be gained by the realization of the proposed real ignment render the 'Do action' alternative
imprudent.
As indicated by the foregoing Exhibit 10. various alteratives to tde current proposal have been
considered. All would be more ambitious and cosldy and would have similar environmental impacts.
None appear to offer any significant potential for avoidan-c of enviromental impacts or less of a need
for population resettlement at the points of depamrre and re-connection to the existing alignment. All
are considered inferior to the CaUreat proposal. Other than the alternatives indicated by Exhibit 10 and
the 'no action' alternative, no reasonable alternatives to the proposed Rajsh2hi-Nawabganj Alternate
Route have bee identified or considered warfanted.
END NOTES - SECMION 4
I.    Al data concerning mumbers of affected families. lss of ctdtivatable land and trees are deived
fom SoEio-Ecomic Survey of Affeted Families, RRMP-Il, January 1993.
PaWkas *qM& o0fDVmgAd
second Xd"Mmm|A N M_wwmeer _a                                WM Faig h.P*da Jy Tew .wU DmA



U'~~I          
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CA



5.0 MITIGATION
OVERVIEW
The purpose of t*e Mitigation Section of an EA-related document is to define feasible and cost-effective
measures which may reduce potuntially significant adverse environmental impacts (if any) to acceptable
levels. It aims tn ensure that, insofar as possible, the proposed environmental actions are in phase with
engineering activities throughout preparation. Mitigation actions might include compensatory measures
if mitigation measures are not feasible or cost-effective.
In the case of RRMP-U, the analysis indicates that, like virtually any development activity, the project
will have impacts on the environment, but that the project in general would not have a significant adverse
enviromnental impact as that term has been defined in environmental jurisprudence. In spite of the lack
of significant adverse impacts, the project will have a number of direct, indirect and cumulative impacts
and offer opportunities for environmental enhancements for which appropriately-scaled responsive actions
are recommended, and that in addition to those recommneudations, cultural resource aad resettlement
issues at Saidpur remain to be resolved before that part of the program could proceed. The latter are
separately addressed by the RRMP-II Resettlement Plan.
the enumerated portion of this section of the report reviews potential mitigation/enhancement actions
according to the same environmental criteria in the same sequence as the presentation of existing
conditions and potential impacts. Before doing so, Table 4 presents a summary of recommended
mitigation actions, supporting rationale and lead agency responsibilities.  Table 5 reviews each
environmental criteria and the recommandations related to them, if any.  All recommended
mitigation/enhancement measures are under the purview of the Ministry of Communication as lead agency
and may be grouped under seven major headings and a related programmatic recommendation for
consideration as follows.
It is recommended that actions be undertaken to:
*     Monitor fooding conditions as the nay change over time or become better known.
Although the project is proceeding on the basis of the best available data and considerably safer
assumptions than was the case prior to the 1988 floods, changes to existing conditions and re-
assessment of assumptions may be prompted by eventua implementation of flood control schemes
and other factors. Monitoring of information generated by the Flood Action Plan and its
supporting analysis is recommended to ensure optimal sizing of drainage structures. Monitoring
of new information documented by forthcoming studies under the auspices of various donor
agencies is recommended as a routine part of operations by staff of RHD, the World Bank and
project consultants. Periodic reviews of the implications of these monitoring activities and
appropriate responses to new information thus obtained should be a routine part of project
management.
*     IntegrteRoad Improvemnts   hUrbanPlanning & Comerciacommodatios. Roads
in Bangladesh are more than a way of getting from one place to another, although that is certainly
one of their major functions. Given the study area's dense and relatively even distribution of
Anem Aual sis                                                      P-plcs Repbw of A-wiodEj
Scmd R&h tuiwiun & Mnbuaae PFq,;ecl                         1a Fjds PcWdd Ry 7Th Werd 5.:



Pags 5-2                                                                             April 1993
TABLE 4
SUMMARY OF RECOMMNDED ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS*
RECOMMENDED                    SUPPORTING                 LEAD/COORDINATION
ACTION                      RATIONALE                   RESPONSIBILITY
Monitor existing conditions    Design of bridges &. culverts  RHD and Project Consultants.
& best available flood data.    based on actual rather than
hypothetical sibtation
minimizes the potential for
undersizing. The situation will
change over time, however.
Integrate RRMP-II with rural  Mitigates adverse impacts of  RHD in cooperation with
& urban development          overspill onto roads; eliminates   Ministry of Local Govermment
programs.                    congestion; maximizes          and Thana engineers and
benefits.                      officials.
Increase consultation with  Increasingly important to       RHD and NGOs assisting in
potentially affected         achieve integration of         resettlement, in cooperation
populations.                 development programs.          with Thana officiais.
Incorporate environmental    Provides a contractual basis for  RHD and Project Consultants.
provisions in contracts and  enforcement of environmental
specifications.              mitigation actions.
Use lime consolidation in    Avoids adverse impacts on      RHD assisted by institutional
preference to brick          land and air quality; avoids   development initiatives under
aggregate.                   depletion of wood. Cheaper.   the project.
Continue and expand tree     Provides renewable resource    RHD as an on-going activity.
planting.                    and habitat.
Assign envLonmental          Ensures follow-up.             RHD.
management responsibility.
Initiate environmental       Minimizes adverse impacts.     RHD assisted by institutional
training,                                                   development initiatives under
the project.
*    Recomndiediouahvw duo been nAde far fhe mc adeatiouof sactiom tocaptuesing propery vale - a man
of enbancigte prou, but defininve recomendiforcb a appiochat beyond Sbe *cepe ofSh enviom l
aayias and ar  mumded - pan of fan econoi fldie.
Reaofmorreeuuut aid poeMli cu_ua em    1 b fe SldpurwSoeu Agveaill abo be riquid.
See R   _aeiem ReptL
ExurorinAuatyALts                                                      PaapIas Repubic OQJ fzh
secoud RecaWigaion & Naiem.e pyojeu                            WVsh Fwamdg PmtWded Ry 7he Word Bmk



AprU 1993                                                                                         Page 5-3
TABLE 5
MITIGATIONIENEANCEMENT ACTION
ENVIRONUMEAL                POTENTIAL                MIlWAIONI                    ACrION
CRUrERIA                  IMPACr                 ENHANCEMENT                NECESSARY
MEASURE
Topogmphy/                    bn      .             eneficial.                 Nonc.
Geology/Soils          ~ Borrw  Pis                RMaration.                  Cont provisions.
Brickfieds.            Avoidmnoc.                  Lime Consolidtion.
Hydrology                  Improved drinage; les   Dlencficil.                 Nonc.
Resours                     flooding.
Wedland                Unavoidable cumulative      Beyond scope of current
Reduction.             impact.                     Froject.
Biological                 Twe loss.               Rcplaning.                  Confinue tme prognms.
Rcsources
Loss of habitat.       Unavoidable cumulative      Bcyond scopc of current
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   impact,   project.
Air Quality                Conatnruction period:   Avoidance.                 ULse dust control
dust.                                              procedures.
-peratonal - period:   Net effect: beeficiaL       None.
reduced congpdtion.
Noise                      Consruction noisc.      Rcetricted to daylight hovr.   Exfing contact
prevision 45.1.
Operational nloie      BcaeficiaL                  None.
rcduced due to reduced
___________________________  congaetion.
Populaion                  Constuction Canm.       Rcstoration.                Add to conact
provision 54.10.
Dialcazion of resident.   Compensation.            Reactdente Plan.
Ecoromy                     Beneficial.            Enhace.                     Coordinae with other
physical pelaing.
Consider value
_ _ _   _       _        _                                  na~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1capbone
Energy                      Depletion of wood used   Avoidanc.                 Lime consolidion in
as fuil for bricks.                                place of brick.
Tranport                    Dirupted by            Good contuction pracc;    Coordinate with other
contruction; ohrwise   cnhanc benefit.             physical plning.
beneficial.
Cutual                      None. cxcept Saidpur   To be negtiated.            To be negotad.
Resou e                     bypa.
NB: M     ;insy of Communicatior is lad agency for sD mitigaion.
Fanirm,'nmal Ann !ysfr                                                           P-pkes RpuMc of R   glded
Second R_athadom  &  aMmuwww  Pn*a                                       W& Fm   Avmded Sy 7he WaM Bank



Page 5-4                                                                          Apil 1993
population, the roads support nodes of development and commercial activities along most of their
length. In certain areas, Saidpur, for example, the intersection of the national road with a
development factor such as the railroad activities have given rise to urban areas of significant
size. Even in non-urban areas, the national and regional roads spawn a string of commercial
activity and market centers whose liveliness sometimes brings traffic on the road to a virual
standstill, significantly impacting vehicular traffic.
In many ways, the congestion in commercial arear cities like Saidpur and Natore and various
commercial activity nodes along the road are indicative of the success of the roads in opening
trade and commerce and getting goods to market. Unforbmately, however, sometimes there is
no 'market" there in the physical sense. Accommodations for commercial activities are meager
and commerce spills into the roadway to the detriment of both road traffic and market activities.
It is recommended, therefore, that in rural areas RRMP-II should, in consultation with the
Ministry of Local Government, coordinate a delineation of commercial activity areas and include
accommodations for these activities in ways that minimize their overspill onto the roadway.
Absolute tidiness would probably be unachievable and perhaps undesirable, but market space with
access and egress to the road way designed to minimize conflict could be incorporated in the
program.
A somewhat diffcrent situation is presented in urban areas such as Saidpur and Natore. Ihe new
roads in these circumstances, particularly Saidpur's, might be conceived as having as much
importance for the future of the towns as the old ones. The possibility of consciously using the
so-called southern bypass in Saidpur to accommodate commercial activity in a structured way and
as part of an overt urban develdopment strategy has been mentioned. It is interesting to note in
this regard that the economic analysis assumes a 10 year economic life because 'benefits may be
severely reduced by uncontrolled development along the new by-passes"'. It is true that the
southern bypass, if realized, will in all probably be engulfed by development, thereby eclipsing
its bypass function. But will it cease to have an economic benefit? Benefits to traffic bypassing
the town will be reduced, but the economic impact on neighboring properties will be sustained.
Accepting his growth pattern implies the probable need for an outer bypass at a future date. For
the road to serve effectively in the interim, however, land uses should not be "uncontrolled".
The impact of overspill commercial activity in the urban areas should be mitigated through
coordinated planning with local government officials. It would be naive to think that the degree
of control will or could be absolute. Even without absolute control, however, it would be better
to anticipate and, to the degree possible, mitigate the impact on both the road and neighboring
land uses by planning for the inevitable through coordinated actions. Such an approach might
also lead to increased economic benefits, as discussed below.
Action on both the rural and urban aspecs of the recommendation would necessitate coordination
of plans with local government officials and with the Ministry of Local Government.
*     Increae the Extent of Consultation with PokautiaUy Affected Populations. Consultation with
potentially affected populations have been undertaken in conjunction with resettlement issues, but
have otherwise been limited, thus far, possibly due to the project's largely remedial nature.
Opportunities for integration of actions as recommended above and potential impacts on human
settlements in both rural and urban areas (e.g., the Rajshahi-Nawabganj Alternate Route and
EM U, wNai AIyi&                                                    Peopl's Repub& of 5.gLdeA
Sevmd ReabUiram & Nafn.we Pvjsm                               EA F m&ng NuW" y 7ke Wol 3.k



April 1993                                                                         Pa,e 5-5
Saidpur, respectively,) make more broadly-based consultation with affected populations
increasingly important. Mechanisms to facilitate such consultations exist at the local levd and
are part of the local government administrative system for physical development projects under
the auspices of the Ministry of Lc .al Government. Cooperation between the local government
officials and RHD would facilitate consultations with potentially affected populations with
minimum duplication of efforts. Greater coordination with local government officials will
facilitate both the coordination of development programs and consultations with affected
populations. NGOs assisting in resettlement may also be of assistance in an expanded
consultation effort.
*     Incorporate Environmental Provisions in Contracts and Specifications. As noted in the
discussion of existing conditions and impacts, certain victkial direct and indirect impacts of the
program do not appear to be substantial issues in practice. This includes, for example, reported
practices in regard to borrow pits and construction camps. It is postulated that if this is indeed
the case, it is probably attributable to the fact that these elements are the subject of short-term
lease arTangements with property owners who have a continuing long-term, stewardship interest
in the land. To reinforce that stewardship and to provide for the contingency of its absence,
standard provisions for the avoidance of environmental degradation and encouragement of
environmental restoration should be included in RRMP contracts. Specific additions to the
Special Conditions are indicated by Table 6.
*     Jse Lime Consolidation In Preference to Brick Aggregate. Although RRMP-ll as currently
envisioned will not involve re-construction, RRMP-I did include re-construction and incorporation
of such actions in RRMP-H may occur. It is germane to note, therefore, that RRMP-I has
generated some technical documentation regarding the use of lime consolidation versus brick
aggregate. It will not be repeated here. From an environmental perspective, however, the
indirect impact of increasing the demand for brick and the additional air pollution caused by the
burning of imported coal at best and depletion of scarce wood resources at worst, in the face of
an apparently viable and cheaper alternative must be considered questionable. It is recognized
that the lime would be imported and that an argument might be made for the creation of local
jobs in the brickfields. The import implications, however, do not appear to be a major issue,
particularly if the use of imported coal is factored into the equation. That being the case, the
implications of short-term job creation versus long-tem depletion of resources, argues in favor
of the lime consolidation approach.
*     Continue And When Possible Expand Tree Planting Activities. Extensive road-side tree
planting occurs throughout the project area, including areas of tree removal by RRMP. Trees
are generally planted at the base and the lower slopes of embankments. To a degree they may
raise the risk of increasing the severity of injuries due to mishaps (accident, loss of vehicle
control, falling asleep while driving, etc.). On balance, however, the degree of risk is perceived
as out-weighed by the benefits of providing resources to the community and habitat for non-
special status wildlife.
*     Assign Envonmentl Managent Responsibility To A Designated Office.  RHD's
organizational structure is indicated by Exhibit 11. It does not currently provide a focal point
with responsibility for enviromental issues. In spite of the fact that the environmenal
EnWmme.aAaLji                                                       Peopkes XEpubc of 5.,ladzh
Seazd RXEhabid & Maiv_c F'jea                                 WM Famg F'Wde By The Wod Buk



Page 5-6                                                                         4pd 1993
TABLE 6
L             ~~~RECOMMBlEDED CONTRCT PROVISIONS
Adde RR.1(d)  ci hl b  h ontract  o rsre r's  responumsiblt tor ensuresthatoconstructio
Volume 1, Soingon 2 seea   out General Conditions of Contract; Volume 1, Section 3
sets out Special Conditions of Contract as modificafons, additions and deletions to the
General Conditions. Volume 2, Section 4 sets out Technical Specifications. 'Me
following specific contract provisions are recommended.
|                    ~~~~~VOLUME 1: SECrI1ON 3
Add 26.1 (d): 'It shall be the Contractors responsibility to ensure that construction
materials in general and briclc in particular have not been manufactured contrary to
|   law and to so certify to the satisfaction of the Engineer'.
Add 54.10: wConstruction Plants. Temporary Works and Storage Areas shall be
established, maintained and dissembled in environmentally-sensitive maners so as to
minimize threats to air and water quality to the satisfaction of the Engineer."
Amend the last paragraph of 84.1 to read: 'Similarly, the supply of stone
aggregates for the Works shall be from quarries approved by the Engineer. In the
event that brick is used, all such brick shall be certified as manufactured in
conformance with all applicable law and provision 26.1 (d) of this Contract. The
responsibility for arranging uninterrupted supply of stone or brick aggregate in
acceptable quantities from the approved sources shall be that of the Contractor."
VOLUME 2: SECTION 4
Add to 2.6.2, rwst pragraph, the following after the last sentence:
"Arrangements for such borrow pits, however, shall contain enforceable provisions for
extraction from the borrow pit and the restoration of borrow pits and their
surroundings in environmentally sound manners to the satisfaction of the Engineer.
Guidance in this regard may be found in Guidelines on Enviromnental Issues Related
To Physical Planning. Ministry of Local Government. Rural Development and
Cooperatives, 1992, or such other sources as may be recommended by the Engineer."
Add to 3.1.2, first pargraph, the following after the ast sentenae  "In the event
that briclc is used, it sball conform with provisions 26.1 (d) and 84.1 of Volume 1,
Section 3 of this Contract.-
Add to 5.8.1, first pwaiah, the folbwing atr  the hst senltence: 'Brickcs used
for these and any and all purposes under the uxms of thi contract shall confom wit
Eawrine,gaAnabv&                                                   Peple: Repuc of Ra,lduh
Second RehbWianm & Mabumenic P'jea                           MA Fwidn Pvv1da Dl The WoY 5k



Apil 1993                                                                                                              Page 5-7
BANGLADESh
SECOND ROAD REHABILTrATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road. end HlghbiVyr Depwpmnunt OrgantbIon
owfn sinctum IaH"dquartars. Road A Dddp. and Mbchanleak
r11. Eim.o n.b
C E                                                                                 Ai CE.
im1au         4 Dkt           0hdobl.mi                  3 1411"          DkM1.m                    3 D(n             hDes.
S.E.   E    E moInIng-I     S.E.       EE S.PEwEE        SE.    EEEIabhwuii           SE          EEDhiA           S.E        EE Ohua
"o"11ubi_ EE momwing.IR     P_n g      EE Pmgw.mng       E_ma     _        _ &        C  V*   _EE EMpdr          __ EE Cvmnnmu
am         FE LEMI AowO     wi         EE Trmlbk Engg     MMi grid     AYIbIWg&~I                                  C*ib       EE Sylul
Et__wMn   EE Pm _1~   (cl  po__-n  EE Rmd On             A_m'       ES E              o Ehm_                       D_
SE          D O  a                     3                                                         2 Diviun                     2 Drmhri.
Usg.      EE-1 DROP Do ..   |De |r  EE_ Roemr            C hie      EADh F           IS       IE. S.£. EE CEE I IOhu*ui
Deign     FE-Ilng. Door    (SE)              wA Ri                                    lEibi      E u                          EE ULEId
CM.      |EE Ihdge Lsegn    A         |Ed EE =  "u Su1 C                                        |t                  Card    | EE fECa
znC.                        LCainrE y   EE DeMa Go"
Badge  EE         S~         Econonon-I        owscim                       S.E.       EES2UMi _.FE EC Dnghmu_
Ulg  FE-I Usda  Lsgr   E5.1W      Eoawmim4-      L .~ Aud.                                  EE SUh3m       L CWI        ES EC 09.33g
Oui  ES-Il Bahdge Dein  E,i,b     Fa.nml411         Ac                          b1W3mc      EE R*huiU       P£m         EE SC CBorna
Cw~m  FE-E  _ EEp. Damps       P4Emi~mm-U                                   CudB       Ewe                         EE SC Khugr
Zn.                                                                                                               Cad.       EE PAS Chub.
AM  C.E - Add.iw.I Chief Eonpun      F C * En.aOnww CairWO
S.E - SuwbWw.doing Ensm          pas - PmowwmwUN IL siara
FE E  FaEscuimv Engummi        PUILS : PIMmNg. ldinglm.mkwhmdmn
CD - De" puly.cem,               PALO* Plums   !.1;w£Omg
EA - Eu.ai3u. AlI~*m1.1         MAE .MMMmngEumbavn
EXHIBiT 11                                                RHD ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
EsW,MnWm.vlAnl                                                                                   Pa.pkIs AEpubi Of Dmglad m
Semud RnabmNAM & A         JwiWm      Pi.cr                                             UW* Fm'di hWs            5D T2e WrU Bok



Page 54                                                                          Apri 1993
recommendations resulting from this analysis are not particularly onerous or burdensome, it is
recognized that ij the absence of assigned responsibility, follow-up and monitoring actions will
be haphazard at best. Given that need and tde fact that the office of the Chief Arboriculturist is
the closest approximation of an environmental unit within the current structure, it is
recommended that that office assume broader environmental responsibilities, induding but not
limited to tree-planting and maintenance responsibilities. Expanded responsibilities would include
the monitoring of environmental data sources (e.g., the flood control projects), enforcement of
environmental restoration actions recommended as part of the standard contract provisions and
organization of enviromental training programs as discussed below. Consideration may also be
given under the project to making the Chief Arboriculturalist's Office into an Environmental Unit
with sub-units for enviromnent, arboriculture and resettlement.
*     Initiate Environmental Training & Guidelines for RHD Staff and Contractors. As far as has
been determined in the course of the investigation, no environmental training or guidelines are
offered to RHD staff or contractors. Such activities do occur in other ministries with related
mandates, however, as witnessed by the Guidelines on Environmental Issues Related to Physical
Planning, as published by the Ministry of Local Govenument and publications prepared as part
of the CARE roads program through the Ministry of Relief.
Training to heighten the enviromnental awareness -of RHD staff in general and staff of the office
of the Arboriculturist in particular is recommended. Training should be geared toward makling
staff aware of the enviromnental issues in RHD activities and recommended courses of action
(e.g., borrow pit restoration) - basically the same types of training currently undertaken by the
Ministry of Local Government for its staff in the conduct of similar physical development
projects. Materials developed for use in the program undertaken by the Ministry of Local
Govermnent (the Guidelines noted above, course agendas, etc.,) have been developed for use with
similar training recipients and are recommended as points of departure for similar programs in
RHD.
Training to heighten of enviromnental awareness of RHD contractors is also recommended. It
is the activities of contractors in the field that will ultimately determiine the success or failure of
many environmental initiatives. Understanding of techniques (e.g., lime consolidation), purpose
and contractal requirements (e.g., borrow pit restoration) of enviromental recommendations
by contractors is likely to lead to avoidance of adverse environmental impacts rather than more
costly and time-consuming clean-ups after the fact. Reference is made to Annex 8 of the Aide
Memoire following the November-December 1992 Mission entitled Construction Industry
Development. The annex notes that the Government of Bangladesh should encourage and
promote improved techniques and ecologically sound approaches to road construction, presumably
through programs targeted at upgrading the skills, awareness and expertise of contractors engaged
in RRMP. An environmental training component is recommended as part of that effort. A
sample TODR for a similar program recenty undertaken in Indonesia is attached as Appendix C.
The services of the Supervisory Consultant for the implementation of RRMP-II should be called upon to
assist in these training efforts as determined necessary and consistent with the contractual scope of
services. This may also be addressed under the project's institutional development component
r_tnuu AD3ysk                                                       P'ples Rgpbc ofRD9glA
Second Rehatuilhpm & MaWniance Povjc                         WM Fsmdkg PlOdd WIy The Werv "



April 1993                                                                         Pa,, 1-9
As a related programmatic recommendation, albeit considered to be an issue beyond the assessment of
the environmental consequences of RRMP, it is also reconunended that consideration be give to the
possibility of:
v     Recapture of Increasing Property Values As Part of Project Financing. It should be noted
that the value of properties adjacent to new and improved roads will increase. They will do so
more in urban areas than rural areas, but to some degree in both. Saidpur is, again, a case in
point. A new corridor of commercial development could well mean that the increases in property
values and returns realized on the neighboring properties will soon overshadow the benefits
calculated as a bypass. This situation presents an opportunity for some road improvements to be
at least partly self-financing through techniques such as betterment fees which are common
practice in developed countries as a means of capturing a part of the value increase. According
to information obtained from the Ministry of Local Govermnent, a legal basis for such fees in
Bangladesh already exists. It is recognized that the transfer of the practice, not just the legal
basis, to developing country situations is difficult.  It has been done, however; 'Land
Consolidation Schemes" are a variation of the technique in Indonesia, for example, and have
financed road and other community improvements.
Whether such a strategy would be economically justified in the current circumstances requires
analysis beyond the scope of the enviromnental investigation. It is more likely to be viable in
urban areas where property values and rates of return are higher. A determination will require
an analysis of both the legal framework for the betterment fee system and analysis of the likely
property value increases. An investigation of the approach is, therefore, recommended for
investigation in future program development. An outline terms of reference for such an
investigation is presented as Appendix C.
These mitigation and enhancement actions have been prompted by a review of each of the environmental
criteria in the same sequence as the presentation of existing conditions and potential impacts as follows.
5.1    PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS
5.1.1  Topogrphy/Soils/Geelogy
Topographic, soils and geological considerations prompt mitigation recommendations in regard vt:
*     Borrow pits and Construction Camps. Although as noted above, the current practices in regard
to borrow pits and construction camps do not appear to present substantial environmental impacts,
the incorporation of provisions or guidelines to encourage restorations in enviromnentally
sensitive manners are encouraged in RRMP contracts.
*     Brickfields. Assuming that brick will continue to be used for at least some portion of the RRMP,
similar provisions stipulating that bricks will be secured only by legally operated brickfields will
be considered legitimate suppliers (See Table 6).
Current program provisions to minimize soil distubance and confine activities to existing rights of way
to the maximum degree act to mitigate additional potential impacts.
EnnrmwegaAmxtysz                                                    PeopJPk's Repib& QoDmul-sh
Secoal hh.bWutm & Mafcmmm  '*_a                              Wah Fnmdg PtyvQd Dy lhc Wei Bo*



J'.e 5-10                                                                       AprU 193
5.1.2 Hydrology
5.1.2.1 The Rajshahi Division
The project will have little or no direct impact on area wetlands. Potential cumulative impacts due to
related development and increased population appear unavoidable and not subject to mitigation actions
within the scope of the project.
5.12.2 Khulna Division
The project will have little or no direct impact on area wedands. Potential cumulative impacts due to
related development and increased population appear unavoidable and not subject to mitigation actions
within the scope of the project.
5.13   Biological Resources
Flora: Given the limited nature of the impacts described in Section 3.1.1.3, and assuming that the
intensive roadside tree planting evident in all RRMP-I areas are continued, no additional mitigation
actions are recommended.
Fauna: Other than continued efforts to avoid areas of unique habitat and homestead areas, no additional
mitigation actions are recommended.
5.1.4  Meteorolgy & Air Quality Characteristics
Air quality impacts will be mitigated by good engineering practice during the construction period,
including the cover of stockpiled materials and dust-reduction measures. Indirect air quality impacts will
also be mitigated if lime consolidation rather than brick aggregate is employed. Air quality impacts
following construction will be mitigated by the lessening of traffic congestion. No further mitigation
actions are considered warranted.
5.1.5 Noise Chaacteristics
Noise impacts during the construction period will be mitigated by good engineering practice and the
confinement of construction activities to daylight hours in conformance with existing contract provisions.
Noise created by traffic using the roadways will be mitigated by the alleviation of traffic congestion. No
additional mitigation is deemed warranted.
52    COMUlINITY & SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERSlCS
52.1 Population
Investigations indicate that environmental impacts due to worker camps or construction camps related to
RRMP are minimal. Standard contract provisions regarding the de-mobilization of construction canps
are recommended to reinforce current practice, however, and to provide a contractual basis of
IIUmmUeNI.LANO5jUi&                                             Peop ier Rqblc of B rgud-h
&coudRehabilka&a & Maismic Prjec                            Wak Fmdig FoMa By The Wo*



Aprl 1993                                                                         Pas s 1
enforcement of environmental restoration, if necessary (See Table 6).
5.2.2 Economic Structure
The project will have a beneficial impact on the economic structure and functioning of the area.
Recommendations of a prodominantdy enhancement nature are made to intensify economic impact by the
incorporation of urbai. development and commercial activity accommodations within the program. As
noted in the foregoing discussions, although the roads included in the RRMP (and other minor roads such
as the feeders created or enhanced by the Care road program) are successful at bringing goods to market,
there is not always a market (in the physical sense) once they get there. As part of the overall
environmental enhancement of the project, as well as to make road travel more efficient, therefore, it is
reconunended to take such needs more fully into account and to incorporate provisions to coordinate
activities with the Ministry of Local Government and other concerned organizations as discussed above.
Consideration of value recapture strategies are also recommended for road improvements in urban areas
as noted in the inroduction to this section.
5.2.3 Energy Consumption Characteristics
Energy consumption characteristics will be improved through more efficient road operations and the
reduction of congestion. Fuel consumption during the construction period, however, could present an
area of potential envirownental impact. As previously noted, bomken bricks manufactured in the local
area are the primary source of aggregate for road construction and are fired usually through the illegal
use of wood as fuel. Road improvement projects are one of the primary markets for these bricks. To
mitigate these potential impacts, it is reconmended that:
*     The standard contract provisions stipulate (and actions be taken to enforce) a requirement that
bricks fired by wood will not be allowed for use in the project (See Table 6).
     Lime consolidation be substituted for the use of brick unless a compelling case to the contrary
can be presented.
5.2.4  Transport and Access Cbaracteristics
hnpacts to the transportation network and its operations will occur during both the construction and
operational phases of the project. Road construction and transport of construction materials will delay
other traffic and cause unavoidable detours. Contracts for the work contain provisions to ensure that
these disruptions are minimized. Beneficial impacts will accrue during the operation phase of the project
due to more efficient operations and reduction of congestion. As noted above, however, mitigation
actions to enhance this aspect of the program through coordination with land control activities in the
vicinity of cities and commercial activity centers along the road way are recommended.
5.2.5 Culturil Resources
Because the RRMP-H0 is confined mainly to impiovements in existing ROWs, potential impacts to cultural
resources are minimized and largely confined to land acquisition activities related to the five identified
F._WrwmoudAnatyxic                                                 PPeo*' Rtpubc Qf RmIf.kN
SecarndR   m & Mabammc P*cz                                  WFM Fwj" FaWda Dy 7he Wol Bw*



Pae 5-12                                                                        AlI JPPi
sub-projects discussed below.  No additional mitigation actions of a programmatic nature are
reconmended. At the sub-project level, however, resolution of potential cultural resource issues in
Saidpur will require resolution before the sub-project can proceed.
53    THE RRMP-li ACTION AREAS
S3.1 Rehabilitation Action Areas
Other than as noted above, no mitigation actions within the rehabilitation approacb and action areas of
the project are recommended.
S3.2 Overlay Areas
Other than as noted above, no mitigation actions within the overlay approach and action areas of the
project are recommended.
S33  The New Ali       t and Bypass Projects
Other than as noted above, particularly in regard to the integration of urban planning activities and
accommodation of commercial activities, no programmatic mitigation actiors are recommended, except
that resolution of resettlement and culuural resource issues will require resolution at the sub-project level
in Saidpur.
E:ND NOTES - SECTION S
1.    Pre-Investinent Study, RRMP-f, May 1991.
Sm4rmalAialysls                                                     Peaplew RpUbc of eqluiei
Sewud Rdw6MWm. & MJal_mr hejca                              WM F_mg PJW"d By 7e WemY Am



6.0 Environmental Management & Training



6.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT & TRAINING
World Bank Operational Objective 4.01 suggests the inclusion of an Environmental and Management
Training section in EA-related documents to assess the existence, role, and capability of environmental
units at the on-site, agency, and ministry level, and, if determined warranted and feasible, make
recommendations concerning the establishment and/or expansion of such units, and the training of staff.
Observations in regard to environmental management and training have already been made in this
document as part of the mitigation and enhancement recommendations, Section 5, and may be -iterated
and expanded upon as follows:
*     Assignment of Enviromental Managenent Responsibilities. RHD's organizational structure
is indicated by the foregoing Exhibit 11. It does not currently provide a focal point with
responsibility for the management of environmental issues. Creation of a focal point for the
oversight of environmental concernw is recommended. Even though environmental issues
requiring management attention in this instance are relatively limited, their importance should not
be minimized. Assignment of environmental management responsibility is needed to ensure that
these issues are not overlooked. In the absence of assigned responsibility, follow-up and
monitoring actions will be haphazard at best.
Given that need, the relatively limited nature of the task, and the fact that the office of the Chief
Arboriculturist is the dosest approximation of an environmental unit within the current structure,
it is recommended that that office assume broader enviromnental responsibilities in addition to
its treeplanting and maintenance responsibilities. The office would be assisted in these efforts
by the RRMP Supervisory Consultant as a part of the normal contractual -scope of services.
Expanded responsibilities are recommended to include the monitoring of environmental data
sources (e:g., the flood control projects), enforcement of environmental restoration actions
recommended as part of the standard contract provisions and organization of environmental
training programs as discussed below. Consideration may also be given under the project to
making the Chief Arboriculturalist's office into an Environmental Unit with sub-units for
enviromental, arboriculture, and resettlement. Assistance in these efforts could be provided
under the project's institutional development component.
*     Environmental Training & Guidelines for RHD Staff and Contractors. . As far as has been
determined in the course of the investigation, no environmental training or guidelines are offered
to RHD Staff or contractors. Such activities do occur in other ministries with related mandates,
however, as witnessed by the Guidelines on Envirommental Issues Related to Physical Planning,
as published by the Ministry of Local Government and publications prepared as part of the CARE
roads program through the Ministry of Relief.
Training to heighten the envirownental awa.eness of RHD staff in general and staff of the office
of the ArWJriculturist in particular is reconmnended. Training should be geared toward making
staff aware of the environmental issues in RHD activities and recommended courses of action
(e.g., borrow pit restoration) - basically the same types of training currently undertaken by the
Ministry of Local Government for its staff in the conduct of similar physical development
FAnmn m bras                                                      PrP1eIu hpub& ef3MgINri
S5m,d Rh_&u' & MaJmlh Phwj                                   MA Fwdia NmWd Dt 7he Wo, Bo*



Page 6.2                                                                          ApFll 1993
projects. Materials developed for use in the program undertaken by the Ministry of Local
Government (the Guidelines noted above, course agendas, etc.,) have been developed for use with
similar training recipients and are recommended as points of departure for similar programs in
RHD.
Training to heighten environmental awareness of RHD contractors is also recommended. It is
the activities of contracors in the field that will ultimately determine the success or failure of
many cnvironmental initiatives. Understanding of techniques (e.g., lime consolidation), purpose
and contractual requirements (e.g., borrow pit restoration) of enviromental recommendations
by contractors is likely to lead to avoidance of adverse environmental impacts rather than more
costly and time-consuming clean-ups after the fact. Reference is made to Annex 8 of the Aide
Memoire following the November-December 1992 Mission entitled Construction Industry
DeveloMegn. The annex notes that the Government of Bangladesh should encourage and
promote improved techniques and ecologically sound approaches to road construction, presumably
through programs targeted at upgrading the skills, awareness and expertise of contractors engaged
in RRMP. An enviromnental training component is recommended as part of that effort. A
sample TOR for a similar program recently undertaken in Indonesia is attached as Appendix C.
The services of the Supervisory Consultant for the implementation of RRMP-TI should be called upon to
assist in these training efforts as determined necessary and consistent with the contractual scope of
services. This may also be addressed under the project's institutional development component.
EnWwra.mga1AL4mzmwm                                                  Prple RiipulU of aigId-
Second RehWbN&a. & Malvewa Pnjea                             MM FAs8g Novi"  y The Wof auk



7.0 Monitoring



7.0 MONMIORNG
World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 suggests the inclusion of a Monitoring Section in EA-related
documents to specify the type of monitoring recommended, responsible parties, and other inputs as may
be warranted.
Three types of monitoring activities are recommended in this instance:
a     Monitoring of Forthcoming Data In Reprd to Flooding Characteristics.  Flooding
characteristics in the study area are complex and changing due to the flood and water control
projects in various stages of planning and implementation. RRMP is now proceeding on the basis
of existing rather than projected conditions as the most prudent course of action for reasons
explained in detail in Section 2. Existing conditions may, however, change over time when and
if planned flood control programs are actually implemented. Monitoring of flood control
programs in general and the Flood Action Program in particular is, therefore, recommended so
that any necessary adjustments of assumptions and design factors are fully taken into account.
The bibliography of this report presents a tabulation of the most relevant studies and flood control
projects. Routine contact should be maintained with the relevant flood control and related
projects. Periodic, documented reviews of the implications of these monitoring activities and
appropriate responses to new information thus obtained should be a routine part of project
management. Summaries of data monitoring activities soould be incorporated in routine reporting
requirements (e.g., quarterly reports) as a means of ensuring that changing conditions and new
data are adequately taken into account. Parties reconmnended to assume responsibility for this
and other monitoring recommendations are discussed below.
*     Monitoring of Integration with Related Programs &  Consultations with Affected
Populations. Greater integration of RRMP with local development and physical planning
activities at the local level should be viewed as an integral part of project management, not a
separable activity. Monitoring of the integration of development plans for a community such as
Saidpur, for example, requires only a review of the plans and the efforts undertaken to achieve
integration. Such activities should be a routine part of project design and management.
Quarterly reports and other routine project monitoring and reporting mechanisms should address
these issues, problems encountered and proposed actions.
*     Monitoring and Enforcement of Other Environmetal Protection Recommendations. The
restoration of borrow pits, construction camps and similar activities are largely a matter of good
engineering practice and should be a routine part of project management. The services of the
Supervisory Consultant should be called upon to assist in these monitoring efforts as determined
necessary and consistent with the contractual scope of services.
Responsible parties for these activities are:
*     The Roads & Highways Department (RHD), Ministry of Conu    is's. As previously
described, assignment of primary monitoring responsibility is recommended as part of the
expanded responsibilities of the office of the Chief Arboriculturist within RHD (See Exhibit 11).
Ehvfrmmwwa Aal*4uolya                                              Pe.plw Repubc of Buugkd'-h
Se,dRcWgafm, & Makmm Prjej                                   Wm Fmdn hwi  my ThW WNeWDmiJ



Page 72                                                                          Apir 1993
Monitoring responsibilities of the office are recommended to indude routine review and analysis
of information in regard to flooding characteristics as they may be affected by the Flood Control
Plan or other factors; assumption of lead responsibility to facilitate the integration of development
activities in general and those of tie Ministry of Local Government in particular; assumption of
lead responsibDity to facilitate consultations with potentially affected populations; and monitoring
and enforcement of recommended contractual provisions for environmental protection such as the
restoration of borrow pits and construction camps.
*     The RRMP Supervisonry  Consultant.   Monitoring of changing conditions, project
implementation and contractor performance is a routine part of the responsibilities of the RRMP
Supervisory Consultant. Monitoring of enviromental actions should be considered an integral
part of that responsibility.
*     World Bank Task Managers. As a World Bank-funded project, RRMP is subject to routine
monitoring by World Bank staff to ensure that the requirements of the project are properly
executed. These monitoring and general project assistance activities afford opportunities to
ensure that environmentl issues are adequately addressed. Routine project adjustments to reflect
new conditions resulting from flood management initiatives, integration of project activities with
local government officials, consultations with potentially affected populations and other
recommendations as presented herein should be monitored as a requirement of the project and
incorporated in project reporting requirements.
Other than these actions and due diligence to the enviromnental issues, no additional monitoring
mechanisms are recommended.
E,WrLmwAumuu                                                        AepkskpubUc of badei
S&cmdRehahladm & MaXn,ae Ph*a                                VIU F_dng PWldd 5, The World B



Appendix A - References



- APPENDIX A - REFERENCES
1.  DOCNUM
Ahmed, Dr. Mushtaq. Bangladesh AgIriulture: Towards Self Sufficiency, 1988.
Bangladesh Ministry of Communications, Roads and Highways Deparment. Road Master Plan Proict-
Main Report, July 1991.
Bznm   sh Ministry of Local Government. Rural Development Cooperatives, Local Govemment
Division, Local Govcrnment Engineering Bureau. Local Government Engineerin! Bureau (a
description), circa 1993.
Bangladesh Ministry of Local Government. Rural Development Cooperatives, Local Government
Division. Local Government Engineering Bureau. Guidelines on Environmental Issues Related
to Physical Planning, 1992 (Draft & Final).
Bangladesh Ministry of L1cal Government, Rural Development Cooperatives, Local Government
Division. Local Government Engineering Bureau. Ouarterly Report Number 13 (October-
December 12M. Rural Roads and Markets Improvenent and Infrastructure Project (RRMIMP),
December 1992.
Bangladesh Ministry of Planning. Bureau of Staistics. Monthly Statistical Bulletin of Bangladesh,
October 1992.
Bangladesh Ministry of Irrigation. Southwest Area Water Resources Management Project. Asian
Development Bank. Sir William Halcrow & Partrs, Ltd. November 1992.
Bangladesh Ministry of Irrigation. Water Development and Flood Control. Bangladesh Flood Action
Plan. Envimmmnental Position Pamer October 1991.
Bangladesh Ministry of Irrigation. Water Development and Flood Control. Bangladesh Flood Action
Plan North East Reggknal Study. Annex 9. Initial Environmenl Evaluation, October 1991.
CARE Bangladesh, Intated  Food for Developmen fFFD) lPQe I. Submitd to USAID, November
1992.
Louis Berger International. Inc. in association with Sarm Associates, Ltd.
Resettlement Plan for Affected Fanilies, Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project,
January 1993.
Louis Berger Intenational. Inc. in association with Saum Assodates. Ltd.
Soclo-Economic Survey of Affectod Families. Seownd Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project. January 1993.
sucu5- dEailm & Mmamom.cpjmn                                  MA Fwdhm huvUd N  t VW   Binrst



Appdr A-2                                                                          ]U J
Louis Berger Intemational, Inc. in association with Sarm Associates, Ltd.
_echnical Sncifications. Contracts I through ,. Second Road Rehabilitation ad Manenance
Project, December 1992.
Louis Berger Interational, Inc. in association with Sam Associates, Ltd.
Report on Trial Soction Observation 1992110-1, Road Rdabilitation and Mainteunlce Project -
Phase 1, October 1992.
Louis Berger Intemational, Inc. in association with Sanm Associates, Ltd.
]]t Lime Industay *n BangLad, Road Rehabilitation and MAice Project - Phase 1,
Undated, circa August 1990.
Louis Berger Inernational, Inc. in association with Saum Associates, Ltd.
Technical Proposal for the Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance !Proie=, December 19W9.
Louis Berger Intenational, Inc. in association with Saum Associates, Ltd.
Brick Khoa as Base Granular Material, Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project - Phase I,
Undaed. Ocober 1989.
KBN Engineering and Applied Sciences, Inc., nd Tropical Research and Development, Inc., for USAID.
Proramm icEnviromenta  Assessment of the USAlDfBangjadesh InteifAtd Food for
Dnevdgment Progran, Jaur 1991.
United States Agency for International Development. Environmental Design Considerations for Rural
Devedolment Prokoc. October 1980.
United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF). Banrladesh Rural Infrastructure Formulation
Mission BGD/911C02. July 1992.
World Resources Institute. Center for lItentional Development. Bangladesh: Environment and Natural
Resource Assessment Final Remon, Prepared for USAID, Septenber 1990.
World Bank Appraisal Mission. Aide Memomir Banrladesh Prooosed Second Road rehabilitatioo and
Main tenance Pjea Revised 7 April 1993
2.    PERSONAL CONTACTS
Dr. Rukumuddin Ahammed, Senior Physical Planning Consultant
Rural Employment Sector Programme -II
Ministry of Local Goverment
GPO Box 4185
Ramna. Dhaka, Bangladesh   Telephone: 327544, 319270
_ A.Pka _1 uU Ofsw9
S   XedDakih_ & M_mw Fajue                                    WA FmWu, Pomda 52. me Wm" Bw..



pdp W99i                                                                        Appiadlx A -.
Arthur E. Bruestle, Principal Environmental Engineer
Environment and Social Affairs Division
Asia Technical Department
The World Bank - Washington DC 20433    Telephone: 202/4580-2756
Stephen R. Dice, Senior Envirommental Specialist
nfrastructure - Asia Region Technical
Tbe World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433               Telephone: 202/458-0148
Md. Monowar Hossain Chowdhury
Superintending Engineer
Local Government Engineering Departnent
5n Laimatia, Block 3
Dhaka 1207. Bangladesh     Telephone: 816391
Mohamed Nurul Islam. Assistant Director
Department of Environment
House Number 2 - Road 16 (New)
Dhanmondi RIA. Dhaka 1209 Telephone: 315777. 328676
Janet Koch. Senior Economist
Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Country Departent 1. South Asia Region
The World Bank - Room E-9103
Washington. DC 20433              Telephone: 202/4S8-035
Stein Lundebyc. Transport Engineer
Energy & Infrastructure
The World Bank, E-9091
Washington, DC             Tdephone: 2021458-2756
Peter Nicholas
The World Bank
1818 H Stret NW
Washington DC 20433
Mr. Riazuddin, Deputy Director
Deparment of Eavironmet
Miisty of-Forest & EAvironment
House 2 - New Road 16
Dhaka, Bangladesh    Tcelphone: 328676
m* mmmAm                                                             NpAra R
&wx4 R,.aiwms A Nmarmin Phu                                   NM* FwW6W PhmWd. y lkr Wid



AWpudd AJ.                                    A^pI 1993
Mr. M. Quazi, Operations Unit
The World Bank
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Ataur Rahman, Chief Engine
Roads and Highway Department
Sarak Rhaban, Dbaka
Richard K. Simonian, Team Leader
Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Projea
Dhaka
Sandy Taylor
Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Bogra
Vincent TmPleanO. Resident Engineer
Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Bogra
_         _*inu.AIAu                                                  P     _W iNesA imugfBANa
5             A  M_r_Fmuj*0                                    OM FusL. h,du Dy Mm WML Auk



n   B
Appendixc B - Inter-Agency Coordination



LOUIS BERGER INTERNATIONAL, IN                            Archites Engineers- Economists Planners
FLAT-C16_L_
4. Poribagn Housing SocietY                                          Telaphone: 863169
P. 0. Bow No. 4289
ODhaka - Bangladesh
Site Office: Bogra
25 February 1993
Mr. Riazuddin, Deputy Director
Departmcnt of Environment
Housc Number 2 - Road 16 (New)
Dhanmondi RJA. Dhaka 1209
Dear Mr. Riazuddin:
Thank you for lakJng the lime to meet with me on 9 February 1993 before my ficld trip and
again yesterday aftemoon to discuss the Road Rehabilitation and ?-aintenance Project
(RRMP) in the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions.
I greatly appreciated your observations and references.
I wish you every success in the imponant work of the Department of Environment and if we
can assist you in any way. pleasc do not hesitaic to contact us.
Sincerely.
Robert J. Hefferon
Pnncipal Planner



LOUIS BERGER INTERNATIONAL. INC.                             rhlzecs  Engiueers Economists  Planner
4.- Panbagh l4ousing Society                                           Telephone: 863169
P. O. Box No. 428I
Dhae - lingladesh
Si Office: Boole
25 Febnrary 1993
Mohamed Nurul Islam, AssisLant Director
Department of Environment
House Number 2 - Road 16 (New)
Dhanmondi R/A. Dhaka 1209
Dear Mr. Islam:
Thank you for talung the lime to meet with me yesterday afternoon to discuss the Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenancc Project (RRMP) in the Rajshah; and Khulna Divisions.
Your recent experience an and knowledge ef Lhe Rajshahi Division made our discussions
panicularly useful.
I wish you the best of luck and success in your new position with the Depanment.
Sincercly.
Principal Planner
Robert J. Hcfferon
Principal Planner



LOUIS BERGER INTERNATIONAL, INC.                         ArchiteL   EngineersC Economis
fLAT-C/6                                      _1 \   ciet   nier   cnmssPonr
4. Paribagil Housing Society   -                                     Telephone   863169
P. 0. Box No. 4283
Dhaka - Bangladesh
Site Olflce: Bogra
25 February 1993
Md. Monowar Hossain Chowdhury
Supenniending Engineer
Local Government Engineering Department
517 Laimatia. Block 3
Dhaka 1207. Bangladesh
Dcai Mr. Chowdhury:
Thank %ou for taking the time to meet with me on 25 February 1993 to discuss the Road
RehabiliLttion and Maintenance Project (RRMP) in the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions and
potentail cooperation belween the Ministry of Communication as lead agency for the project
and the Ministry of Local Govemment for related aspects of physical planning.
I greatly appreciated your observations. references. and the two publications you werc kind
enough to supply.
I wish you every success in the imporan. work of the Ministry of Local Government and if
we can assist you in any way. please do not hesitate to contact us.
Snccrely.
Robert J. Hefferon
Principal Planner



LOUIS BERGER INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
FLAT-C/6                  --L                           Architects Engineers- Econamists- Pln
4. Paribagh Housing "3ocihty                                       Tlpoe 836
P.O. Box No. 4289                                                  Telephono  863169
Dhaka - Bangladesh
Site Office: Bagra
25 February 1993
M. A. Aikarim, Project Director
Rural Road Market Improvement & Mainicnance Project (RRMIMP)
Ministry of Local Government
House # 14 - Road 8
Dhanmonda RIA. Dhaka 1209
Bangladesh
Dear Dr Askanm:
Thank you for taking the timc LO meet with me on 25 February 1993 to discuss the Road
Rehabilitatuon and Maintenance Project (RRMP) in the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions and
potential cooperation between the Ministry of Communication as lead agency for the project
and the Ministry of Local Government for related aspects of physical planning.
I greatly appreciated your obscrvations, rcferences and the copy of the RRMIMP Quancrly
Repon for the period October-December 1992.
I wish you every success in the important work of the Ministry of Local Government and if
we can assist you in any way, pleasc do not hesitatc to contact us.
Sincerely.
Roben J. Hefferon
Pnncipal Planner



LOUIS BERGER INTERNATIONAL, INC.   NATArchitect  Engineers Economlsts Planne
FLAT-C/6                  _                         s Aciet-Egnes  cnmss   /n
4. Patibagh Housing Societv                  t     _                Telephone: 863169
P.O. Box No. 4289
Dhaka - Bangladesh
Site Office: Bogra
25 February 1993
Dr. Rukunuddin Ahammed
Senior PhysicaJ Planning Consultant
Rural Employment Sector Programme -11
Ministry of Local Govemment
GPO Box 4185
Ramna. Dhaka
Bangladesh
Dear Dr. Ahammed:
Thank you for taking the time to mcet with me on 25 Fcbruary 1993 to discuss the Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) in the Rajshahi and Khulna Divisions and
potential cooperation between the Ministry of Communication as lead agency for the project
and the Ministry of LoWl Government for related aspects of physical planning.
I greatly appreciated your observations and references.
I wish you every success in the imporant work of the Ministry of Local Government and' if
we can assist you in any way, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Sincerely.
Robert I. Herferon    -
Principal Planner



Appendix C - Sample TOR For Road Contractors
Improvement Program



The focus Of the pre=e  Project is the extension of management assistance to road
construction contnctors in Indonesia including some of those executing ADB - assisted projects
in order to reduce the high costs which project implementation delays impose upon the economy
and to train contractor's staff in improving construction and manRgement techniques.
2. .  OB3ECTIV
2 1   The objectiveg of providing the managemunt supponseriees to the mafd enntmrctnrs is
to enhanrc their capabilities in construction and management techniques in order to help alleviate
bottlenecks in timcly implementation of road construcjion contracts by providin,  direct
management assistance to selected Indonesian road contractors includin, some of those carrying
out projects funded by ADB.
2-2   The folloAing specific project objectives.indicating the improvements to be obtained
through the management suppon project. have been esta5lished for the project to secure a lasting
effecl from the assistance:
i)    Impro,%-cmcn of corpoawtc and proicci mLnuagemnent skills of Indoncsian rOad
contractors in the financial, techni:2. mcz-anical, marketing. administrative and
related fidlds.
1t)   Increased cfficacncy  in the camuta.on of spccifiod road betterment and
maintenance projects by a selected numhtr of small znd medium size local
contractors.
auij   Esublishment of a lorntierm Tra;ninj Proiranme for funher strengthening the
lmana cmrnt capabilities of small and 1redaum size local contractors.  This
programme would Include a Moving seminar package covering releiar-t
manaemrnt and technicl subjects. to be orgviized and run by trained semin2r
lecturers from the consultnt.
Va)   Establishment of procedures by means of *hich the traininp requirement of
Indonesian road contractors can be adentiTitd
t     DETATLED SCOPE Or SERVICES
I.1 Consulting sermices will be pro% aded to canr out the %-ork- envisaged under this scherc.
It 3s anticipated that a stan of interntonal consulaits well experienced in the fields of
construction mawiement, fuance and equipment manqci nena will be needed for this purpose.
3.2   Thnc will be a Project ?4znagc7 appo;nted by Bina Mz.-ga and he uill function as
counitCWa to the conltants' Team Leader. wAk- ill repon to him. The contractine firms to
receive assistance -ill be selected by Bira 1'!p:ja in consultation with the ADB.



3.3   The activities of thc  perts assigned to the provinces will be co.odinated by the
Consulants TcaT Leader In conjuncion wM  the head of the RBO responsible for thc region.
Based on Bina Marga's advice on seclcion of contractors to mceive assistance communicated
through the Prqject Manger, the Team Leader will assip individusa proj=us for assistance and
will provide diection to the experts throughout the pToject to ensure thr: the focus of their
efforts is towards those projects which have the greatest need and which A-ill benefit most from
extemal hdlp. All activities, reports and scrvices will be undertaken in coordination with the
RBO to maximize effectivencss.
3.4   Assistance to be given by consultants will include management support to the contracto:s
at headquantrs level and on-site assistznce to their on-going road beutermentlmaJntnclancc
proJcZts. Key areas where assisunce is generally requircd at headquartcrs lcvel we:
- overall management capability
- operational and financal planning
- budgeling and cost oontrol systems
- estimating costs and endering
- project control and man ement informtion sysiems
- finLicial manatemrent including cash floA
- %o:kshop and equipment costing systems
On-sitc assistnwce will concentrate on c-r.-.CtiO lechniqu;s. quarry operation. pain an-d
gu:imCelt utiaization. mwntenance and repair 8a 'sell aS o-the-job traininyg of coniTactors stafr
re 'anous aspects of construconl management. The Ilaer will include esvimating and quantity
sur%cyan. measuremnen and evaluaion of work. matcna:s procurement, crushed Stone and
ai;phall production, and quality wortrol.
.5S   Thr scope of worlk o consultants. amonig other things, will include the folloaing:
I)    Carry out a broad over%iew study of the domestic construction industry vith
particular reference to road constricuon fwth a view to asscssing the man reasonS
for poor performance in several cases.
ii)    Study the organizational strcture and functio:ting o' the contracting firms selected
for assiswanc. and identify te ars where strengthening/mafnagemew suppon is
needed to imnpove pcrformance
uii)   Conduct seninars and worLshops for contractors' staff on various aspects of
project implemenution and prvide them geCcssary on-the-job trining.
iv)    Review the existing workshop practices and cquipment maagement procedures,
including maintenance  d rpair operations of domestic contractors and advise
them on measurs to make pant and equipment usage cost effective.
v)    Rcview the existing praTices of domesic contractors aith respect to budgeting.
accounting and fwancua -magemert including cost conuol and cash flow, and
suest aptPriate measur  to improVv them and achieve bet perfomace.



vi)   Assist domese contactors in introducing project control and management
information systemlS and to improve cfficiency of all their operations relating to
implementation of contracts.
vii)   Assist domesic contractors in planning and scheduling all contract activities With
2a view to achieving timely implementation of he contacts.
viii)  Review the peronnel management policics of domestic contraciors and provide
necessary advice to th:m for improving staff relations and increasing productivity.
ix)   Anthl domestic ccnz,tort in improvin&, thcis ..uI,aLzu:tiua %MIIIiyUC.N will
procedures to maklc optimum use of the available resources of manpowcr,
equipment and finance.
x)    Provide echnical advice tn domestic contractors on quantity surve3inZ and
costin,g. matrials procuremcnt and management, quality control of work;s, and
in other such arus related to project imrr. cmnentation uhere improvement are
needed.
'   Tt. censullin; services usil fc%vus on o-2 nlng the fp;'!o :n ian;ible resuhis in addi1ton.
Ia ,hc USLs aJifcady dc.JIO ld
A report prepared for each individuaJ vo'IIactoT;project included in the scheme
;:uinLg a descnp:'(  of thc COflpAn). its cxecution of a road benterment or
maintenance projct, an anaysis of the mana;cment capabilities of the Company.
and recommcadatuons to thc company for improvements in managerial and
technical fields.
An ovcfi i F!!!1 Report ivfkl an in -dep.h analvsis of problems encountered by
local contractors if. eneral, exeeuting road betterment maintenance projects,
including recommeadit.ons as to managena) and technological improvements
needcd for Lhe small ad medium size contractors to ecxcute road betterment and
maintenance projects in a professionlJ manner.
Technica RepoLus ad mrnwuals. Ahaich %all be prepared to saiisfy immediate.
specific. genual and Ibng*term requircmcnts for management standards and
guidelines rdaxed to all work activibes and management procedures for planning.
mntrol, scbeduling. reporting. estimating and monitoring of road construction
projects. The content of these manuals %ill be determined by the needs perceived
by te experts. Among others. it is expected that the topics to be covered by
these Technicul Repons and Misuals may include:
-     Project Costing
-     Mobili Panning
-     Quarsy3 Esotashment
Mateials Stabaiiry
*     Cash Flow Ealuaton
-     Technical Sppervnsion



Project Managcmenlt
Resources Planning
Manpower Developmcnt
Production or Training aids, manuals and guide notes for use by lower lcvel and
mid management as a source rcference for assistance on the job to ensure that the
consulants' advice is available on a permanent basis.
4. JOB DESCRIPTION MAD PERSONNEL
4.1   The Project Team 3hall consist of cxpcrs in a numbcr of disciplines expenenced in
cOnstruction management at all levels. They must, prefcrably, have been employed on previous
projccts of a sizlxiIc kind, auid cwn5euently have a good knowledgre of thc problcms being
encountered by contractors in the Indonesian road construction industry.
4.2   Delailed ceperience requirements and job descriptions for the p;ofessional staff assigned
to the Project arc as follows:
.3.2.1 Tcam Leadcr
The Team  Leader must be a senior professional with an initial degree in civil
cnginecring. Hc should havc extensive knowledge of road construction practices. He must have
cxtensi% c contract management experience and knowledge of the government sector. Previous
peofesSional experience in Indonesia is desirable. He will:
- reside and establish the Project's main ofrice in Jakarna.but traved in the provinces as
and %hen necessary. It is envisaged that a minimum of 15 days in a month will be
spent outside lakart;
- @I2lisgh aUA maaaiatn ClosC ties with Dana Marta.-particularly the Project Mlanagcr.
and with any other a:encies involved in the project;
- be responsible or the complete co-ordinalion of all of the activities of other expens
retained for the Project;
- provide any specialist advice which falls witNin the sphere of his particular knowledge
and experiencc dirmdy to conractors requiring such assistance;
- prepare a detld work programme at the str of the Project and subsequently up-date
every three motafs;
- be generally responsible for transfer of tewbnology;
- ensure that the largest possible number of contractor$* staff gain maximum benefit
throughout the Project;
- be reonsible for the production and distribution of manual, guidelines, and technical
reports covering selected aaspects of the PrOect;
- submit monfthy reports covering all activities of ihe Project.



42.2 Specialist Esperts
The Speialist Exper%s highly experienced within their assigned fields and thus able to
coWtplement the effons of the Regional Management Experts (soe below) and give them special
sporl whenever rceded, will be stationed in Jakarta.
These will be:
- an Equipmcnt Management Expert;
- a Quany Expert;
- a Site Managcment Expert;
- a Training Exper.
They will provide a cental core of professional expenise to supplemcnt the activities of
the other team members and will concentrate on enhancement of:
equipment management
- project planning
- quarry operaions
- training planning and implemcntation
- site layout and mobilization
- contract interpretation
- financial planning and control
The Specialist Experts will travel frequentdy Loprojea locations under the direction of the
Team Leader and will be assigned individual project responsibilities in addition to those projects
%no Ahich t)hcy anis tm Reoon2s Manraicasrt rxpcrU.
Funhemor they wil. in accordance with oveWrall inrctions from the Team Leader,
disdhrge the followg d-es:
- Witiating wan coordinatn the production and distribution of Zuidelines, manuals, and
tehical reo
- planning and execeion, in conjunction with the other Expeus, of seminars for selectd
ntractors in the ridject reions;
- planning and productn of papes for the above mentioned seminars.
4.2.3  Regioal Management Expets
Four Regionl Management Expus will b sationed in the provinces at locations such
tht they awe able to spend dt maximum amount of their time on read projet locations. They
may thus require rdocation dunng the cous of the consulmney period. Thy -will be supported
by thc Cpes stationed in Ja        and wl  assist a slect  aumber of cotractors  ing
problems in execuibon of nod benermentand maintanceprocts, anssisting on xvel contracts
at any one time Th Rqional M ement Experts mus be highly expaeced enmeers with



a broad knowledge atal aspects of the road COnSITCuon fnUUbuFy. OUSj; *i, I" "
dutics, they may be required to give advice and assisance on any number of the following main
topics:
* plannintg and programminf proceduTes in general;
- understanding of the requirements and obligations of contracts;
- financial management, including cost control, cash flow etc.
- matesials procurement,including assessment of capabilities of potential
subcontractors, and preparation of subcontract documents, with special emphasis on
wconomic safeguards and guarantees of timely deliveries;
- crushed stone and asphalt production;
- estimating and quantity surveying;
- measurement and evaluauion of work;
- equipment management. repair, and maitenance;
- staff relations;
- reporting systems.
They will repon bac in the Team Lcader on any identilied need for assiswance by the
centrally bascd expens. They will also submit sugestions for topics to be included In seminars
or other training activities, and take pan as required in the production and presentation of papers
on sUch occasions.
3.    REPORW'G
The Consultant will be rquird to submit the following repons to Bmia Mrga and ADB
each in a tw of 30 (thib ) cics, induding S (five) copies to ADB.
Tbe language of the Consultnt's repot will be English. Bowee, in order to enhance
the effectiveness of thtir serces. the consultant should afange wherm considered necessary for
4OrTlnS papes. technical notes. documents and other materis pread by them  for
cnsideration by Bma Marga and oLher goverment agencies so be translated into Bahasa
Indonesia.
5.1   Inception Rcport
Within 30 (thirty) days afwr the commencement of the services, the Consultant will
submit an Incetion Repot giving the deailed work plan, assignments forindiiduals and the
methodology proposed.
5.2   Monthly Progess Repon
At the end of each calendar month the Consultant %ill repon on the progress of the
project. problems bCing encountered and solution offcred.
5.3   Technical Reposu
The Consultant will pmduce as necessy technical rtpots and/or position paper dealing
sith technical matters airising during the project.



PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
I     DIRECTOR
OF PLANNING
* pi.   AM,b
I     CHIEF OF
SUB DIRECTORATE
OF ROAD DESIGN
&&MR. Amm A
_   _  _  _  _  I i-
______t__~                   a_  a  '    : .
. ._    ..             ,        '                             .~~~~9  w
r   ' @~~~~~~~I
.S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                M.A_MM_A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*jc .-. _   ,   ,._,
, . I . .~~~~ Ic_TEAMLEAD.
. % . _"_ . MA
. | Oass-*-_.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do                    fl  ..



PROJECT*S ';OALS AND OBJECTnVES
The Regional Management Specialists assigned to the Project .Areas are responsible for the
following provincial areas:
*     Padang, responsibe for :U provice in Swnaters
*     Bandung, responsible ror West Java, Central Java, Yogyakarta and West,
Central. South and East Kalirmantan
*     Denpasar, responsible [or East Java, Bali, West Nusa Tenzggara. East
Nusa Tenggara, East Tinur
*     Ujuog Pandang, responsible for alU provinces in Sulawesi. M.aluk-u atd
Irian Jaya
The project areas and assignment locations are shown on the map presented in Figure 3. The
Regional Organizational Chart presented in Figure 4 will be used in each of the project areas.
As background, the Bina Marga Sterring Commite  initially sciceted a motal ot 42
Contractors throughout Indoncsua to reccive Management Support and Assistance. Ninc of
these contractors are located withm the arma assigned to the Regional Management Expert
msponsible for the Denpasar Ara. All of these Contractors were selected based upon their
potenti  for Long Term DeveJopment.
The specialists based in Jakar will be periodically assigned to outlying regions to assist the
Aegional Maaguemcnt Experts as required. Requests for these Specialists will be closely
coordinated by the Team Leader and the Bina Marga Project Manage:. The Regional
Management Specialists and the Specia!ss based in Jakarta will also be responsible for .
coordinaiing and conducting stminars. " orkshops and training at project locations as the
:raining, needs are identified.
REVIEW  OF PREVIOUS PERFORPMNANCE
Over recent years there has been considerible improvement in the performance of Indoneszan
Road Contractors however. further imprwcvment is sdU required. Through our experience
in working closely with Contractors on previous projects and on the ongoing ADB Ninth
Periodic Maintenance projert. we havc identified problem areas that are cuffently occurring
on Bina Marga road construcion projectu as sen by the Supervisory Engineers. In addition
Bina Marga has compiled records of problems being encountered by Contractors
implementing ongoing road pfojecs funded by ADB.
Management Support to the Indonesian Road Construction Indust (MSICI)
Sina MargalLouis Berger International. Inc.



- -                 PROJECT'S GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
Previous performance data indicate the following problem areas have been encountered on
the ADB Ninth Periodic Maintenance Project
PROBLEM AREA             PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL REPORTED
Equipment Management                 52 %
Manpower                             46 %
Managerna                            20 %
Financial                            11 %
Material Delays                       7 %
Specifications                        7 %
EnvironmentaJ                         2 S
As noted, the major problems affecting the mad contractors are in the area of general
management. Occupying first place in the problem's frequency list is equipmenL
management. The lack of practice of good managtement conccpts, is affecting the proper
utilization of equipmcnt Deficiency m good planning. organizing and scheduling or
equipment availability as well as equipment down time appear to be the major causes for
delays and high cost of road construction.
Manpower organization and implem:nrtaion is the second leading caus' for delays and
contributes to higher costs for road construction. Here again, the lack of good managerial
pisuoucc ia the culpsut mIv86 wlit die lack or quatmata management and technical personnel.
The shortage of manpower is the result of significanl increases in project funding and the
*              associated increases in the volune of road work being completed at this time.
The severity of the other problems listed is equally as itportance as the problems described
above, with !bc diffcrence that thev do not occur with the same frequency. While reviewing
the mcords it beame apparecn that even though thr frequency of the problems may change
from Contracmor to Contractor, the types of problems being encountered by the construction
industry as a whole arc fairly consistent. Since the predominant problems arm in the areas
of Equipment magement and utilization and Manpower organization and implementation,
the most direci approach to improving Contractor performance will focus on these arcas.
Management Support to the Indonesian Road Construetion Industry (MSICI)
Bins MargaLouis erger International, hc.



- .   *              PROJECTS GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
ASSISTANCE TO CONTR&CTORS
The project is aimed at enhancing the capabilities of road Contractors in construction and
management techniques by providin- direct management assistance to the Contractors and
through direct involvement in their contrats. Thcrefore a key task will be to establish good
communications, trust and confidence between the Consultants team and the Contractors
staff. This relationship will be established through a 'hands-on personal' approach, through
careful determination of areas of mulvememn andtaeul-s 3deradohortetronimendations
given lo satisfy the Contractors needs and requirements.
To initiate the program, the Management Experts will visit the Contractor's offices to
introduce themselves, complete the Questionnair and discuss any problems the Contractors
may have. Inception Seminars similar to this one have been held in Padang and Bandunv and
onc more will be held in Ujung Pandang. South Sulawesi. Home office and site visits will
be ca.-iied out by the Regional Management Experts to determine the type of management
suppo:a required and to provid as m.uch assistance as possible considering their work load.
The Jakra based Team of Expers will visit the contractor to advise on specific problems
dependent upon their needs and the backup required by the RME. Assistance will be made
3 ailable to the Contsactors at the e-alicst possible period of the project implementation.
. n-ough utilization of the results of the Questionnaire developed for the Indonesian Road
Contractors, direct observations by the MSICI team. contractor's requirements and other
sources. trning programs will be devdoped to strengthen the management capabilities of
the Indonesian Contractors. Training will be provided through Workshops and other
presentautions to the Contractors.
Since the program is designed to assist Contractors and Not Contracts, the assistance
V.v;4dJ t* tia Conuractors toy ne LonSultants may conunue to new contracts. When this
occurs assistance will be provided at the earliest possible peiod of project implementation.
This approach will anclude providing assistnmc at the pre-bid and bidding stagcs of contracts.
This will allou our team to identify problem ares and implement improvements before the
problems occur. With this in mind. it is proposed that the Consultant's team be involved
during the pre-qualafication and pre-bid stages of the projects where possible. During these
early stages of the project the Consultant will focus mainly on the availability and suitability
of equipment and selection of contracts which best suit the Contractor's specific t4lents and
capabilities.
Management Support to the Indonesn Road Construction Industry (MSICI)
Bin* MargalLuis Berger Intenrational. Inc.



PROJECT'S GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
SUnMMARY
As previously uainI  the objective of thc pmijcc. i3 Lu cnhance tne construction and
management capabilities of Contractors in order to achieve on schedule and within budget
implementation of road constructiorn projects. Tlis objective will be achieved by providing
direct management assistance and training programs through Workshops and other
presentations to selected Indonesian Contractors on projects currently being tendered and
those in progress. Our team of specialists wilJ work directly with Contractors in the field
and in their home offices. In order for this direct %orking rclationship to succeed it will be
essential to build a relationship based on professional trust and confidence between the
Consultants team and the Contactors staff at the earliest possible date. This relationship will
bc achieved through a hands on approach by our team of specialists.
Mr. Wilitam CuTis. Team Leader, will be responsible for thorouehly briefing the
Consulanl s staff on the appropriate approach to be taken with the ConETactors.  Thc
approach taken will be based on open communications links which are d- signed to encourage
mur-Wi dialogue between the Conuactor. Bina Marga and the Consultant.
Management Support to the Indonesian Road Construction Indusry IMSICI)
Rina MarglaLouis Berger Interntional. Inc.



S.4   Final Report
Al the expiration of consultanl services a final reporn shall be submi:ned, summarizin,
the findints and rweommendation of the conSulumt, appraising the achievements of the pro)eCt
and detailing probable future requirements.
6.  MAJOR PROJECT REQUIEMDENTS
6.1   Expert Services
Tbe activities outlined in chapter 3 require the fdl)owing expert scrvices:
PosJtlon                                   I/M
Expatrate Expens
Team Leader                                24.0
SPeclals Experts:
Equipment Management Expert                22.0
Quar  Expert                               22.0
Site Managemen: Expen                      22.0
TrAining Expert                            22.0
Regional NianaStment Experts
Expert 3                                   22.0
Expert 2                                   22.0
Exn 3                                      22.0
Expet 4                                    22.0
Total                                      200.0
6.2   Suppon Facilities
In addition to above. genral upport facilitics ae required in sccordance with standard
project rcquirements and procedures.



SELECTION OF CONTRACTORS TO RECEIV-E ASSISTANCE
As stated in previous reports, a basis for seloction of contractors to receive assistance was
preparod by the Consultant and a list of ontractors was finalized by the Bina Marga in
January 1992. The selection of the contractors to receive assistance was based upon the
following criteria:
*     The contractor is behind schedule on current projects.
*     The contractor has the resources and has shown the potential for long term
development.
Upon arriving al their duty stations, the Regional Management Experts reviewed the lists of
Contraciors to receive assistance wiLh the RBO's and Dinas Bina Marga staff of the
respective provinces. At that uime the Kakanwils and the Dinas Bina Marga staff members
recommended that some of the contractors initially sciected should not be given assistance
sanct Jici. piOjcrl5 were completa or the Contractors did not. in their opinion, require
assistance. They also recommcnded that othe contractors should be added to the list. In
essence, it '-ac found that the final decition fn tiPiprminine the. tnntractnr to receive
assistance should be made by the RBO's. the Dinas Bina Marga and the Kakanwils in
conjunction with the Regional Manaement Experts. During meetings held in Jakarta and
Bandung in late ApTil 1992 it was agrmed that the RBO's and the Dina Bina Marga of each
province will provide the Regional Maaement Experts with lists of contractors who, in
their opinson, should receive assistmnce based upon the selection criteria given above.
Since these lists are extensive, it willbe virtually impossible for the Management Experts to
assist all of the Contractors listed. Therfo, the lists should be prioritized by the RBO's.
Dinas Bina Marga. Kakcanwil in conjuncto with the Rcgional Management Experts. The
Contractors actully selected for assistance will be based upon the priority lists as coordinated
by the Tcam Leader. the Regional Mwagement Expa.. the Dinas Bin Marga and the RBO.
Due to limited number of Expers on our team we will only be able to provide assistance to --
the higher prority Contracts and Conactor.
Durng this report perod the Regional Manaement Experts worked with Contractors
originallv listed and with Contractors recommended by the Dinas Bina Marla, Kakanwils and
the RBO's. The curret list of Conutaor.5 rwcommended for assistance by the RBO's and
the DBM's is prsented in Table 4-1. As shown. 13 of these contractors are on the original
list and 19 are new. The lisu of contractors to receive assistance are to be updated monthlv.






