CREDIT NUMBER 2b3VBD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated 9               1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER ,Q63 9 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1994, between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANG  ESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an
amount equivalent to six million four hundred thousand pounds
sterling (E6,400,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Coneitions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladeh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972)
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   "BRTA" means the Bangladesh Road Transport Authority of
the Ministry of Communications of the Borrower;


﻿- 2 -
(c)  "1HDM" means the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model, Version III or such later versions as may become
available;
(d)   "Planning  Commission"   means  only   the   Physical
Infrastructure and Programming Divisions of the Planning Commission
of the Borrower;
(e)   "RHD" means the Roads and Highways Department of the
Ministry of Communications of the Borrower;
(f)   "Resettlement Plan" means the Resettlement Action Plan
dated May 26, 1994 agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association as amended from time to Lime as agreed between the
Borrower and the Association;
(g)   "RRTD" means the Roads and Road Transport Division of
the Ministry of Communications of the Borrower;
(h)   "Road Master Plan" means the Borrower's prioritized
multi-year program of road investment and maintenance works for RHD,
initially completed in December 1992, as updated from time to time;
(i)   "DCs" means the Deputy Commissioners as defined under
the Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance,
1982 (Ordinance No. II of 1982);
(j)   "Special Account" means the Account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(k)   "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing
on July 1 and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred and three million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 103,900,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2004 and ending June 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b) oWhenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate   administrative,  financial   and  engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall implement, or cause to be implemented,
the Resettlement Plan in accordance with its timetable.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing


﻿-6-
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expen-
ditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives     to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records and   accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal


﻿-7-
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the ODA Grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
of the ODA Grant Agreement.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)    such suspension, cancellation or termination is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under the ODA
Grant Agreement; and
(ii)    adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under the ODA Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   consultants to carry out Part C of the Project have been
appointed;
(b)   joint verification of the land and other property to be
acquired under the Project have been completed in a manner
satisfactory to the Association and the DCs have submitted to RHD
the estimated budget requirements for the acquisition of such land
and such other property; and


﻿-8-
(c)   the ODA Grant Agreement has been signed.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that all necessary governmental
action required for implementing or causing to be implemented the
Resettlement Plan has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or
any Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Senior Assistant Secretary or
Assistant Secretary of the Economic Relations Division of the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Peoples Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                 Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD               642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka                     672796 SETU BJ


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of AI6rica
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCCQ)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Aut orized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
[ Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works:
(a) road reha-            38,990,000      80%
bilitation
and widening
works
(b) periodic road         44,090,000      60% in FY 1995;
maintenance                          50% in FY 1996 and
works                                FY 1997; 40% in
FY 1998 and there-
after
(2)   Equipment and                850,000      100% of foreign
materials                                 expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 60% of
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)   Consultant                 8,490,000      100%
services
and training
(4)   Unallocated               11,480,000
TOTAL               103,900,000


﻿- 11 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of tHe Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territdry of the Borrower.
3.    Totwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 5,660,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) (b) and
Category (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after November 1, 1993.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of: (i)
$300,000 for works, (ii) $100,000 for goods and for the services of
consulting firms, and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to reduce the total cost of
road transport on Bangladesh's most travelled roads by improvements
to the RHD road network through effective planning, design and
construction of road investments and effective programming and
implementation of road maintenance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Works
Carrying out a 4-year time slice of RED's Road Master Plan for
western Bangladesh through: (i) rehabilitation of about 168 km of
national and regional roads; (ii) widening of about 100 km of roads
to two-lane standard; (iii) carrying out of periodic maintenance of
about 1800 km of national, regional, and type A feeder roads; and
(iv) provision of vehicles, laboratory and office equipment, and
related supplies for use in supervising the above works.
Part B:     Project Preparation and Implementation Support
1.    Carrying out supervision of civil works under the Project,
including assistance in preparing the annual maintenance work
program in the west, preparation of detailed designs and bid
documents for the periodic maintenance and road widening programs
under the Project, and training of RED staff in planning and
implementing the maintenance program.
2.    Preparation   of   detailed  design,   bid   documents   and
environmental and resettlement plans for Nalka-Hatikamrul-Bonpara
Road.
3.    Carrying out feasibility studies, detailed engineering and
other preparatory work for priority rehabilitation and widening
works, including improvement of feeder roads, which may be
identified during the Project.
4.    Assistance in implementing and monitoring Part D of the
Project.


﻿- 13 -
Part C;     Institutional Development
1.    Strengthening of RHD's capabilities in planning and use of
HDM, in preparation and management of work programs, in data
collection, storage and retrieval, and in quality control of works.
2.    Strengthening of RHD's capabilities in supervising contractors
and improving the environment for and capabilities of local
contractors.
3.    Strengthening of RRTD's capabilities in planning and economic
evaluation and improving its information systems.
4.    Strengthening of BRTA's capabilities in formulating and
implementing improved road traffic safety measures including
development of an integrated approach to safety issues.
5.    Provision of laboratory equipment and supplies, computers,
training aids and related office equipment and supplies.
6.    Training of RED, RRTD, BRTA and Planning Commission staff in
the areas identified above.
Part D:     Resettlement
Implementation of a program of land acquisition and resettle-
ment affecting about 1,365 households who are living, cultivating or
working in the affected area.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part E hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Prequalification
Bidders for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 per contract or more shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part E:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works contracts for periodic maintenance estimated to
cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part F:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisi6ns
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part D hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 16 -
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 and $200,000 or more,
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the


﻿- 17 -
Bank, with such modificatiohs as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection       of
consulting firms,   (c) assignments of a     critical nature, as
reasonably  determined by the Association, (d) amendments       to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall appoint and thereafter retain the services
of a Project Coordinator, a Project Civil Works Director, an
Additional Project Civil Works Director and four Project Directors,
one each for Rajshahi, Rangpur, Khulna and Barisal zonal maintenance
programs.
2.    The  Borrower   shall  appoint  and   thereafter  retain  an
Institutional Review Committee to oversee the implementaticn of Part
C of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1994, set up an
HDM unit in RED and a planning cell in RRTD with adequate facilities
and staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association and thereafter maintain such unit and cell.
4.    The Borrower shall, for purposes of implementing Part D of the
Project, appoint and thereafter retain the services of a Chief
Resettlement Officer and supporting field staff in adequate numbers
satisfactory to the Association, including inter alia three
Resettlement Officers, one each for Rajshahi, Natore and Saidpur.
5.    The Borrower shall take all such measures, as shall be
necessary, to mitigate any adverse impact of the Project on the
environment, and shall, not later than June 30, 1995, establish and
thereafter maintain an environmental unit in RED.
6.    The Borrower shall prepare on an economic basis using, inter
alia, HDM, and review with the Association by December 31 each year,
the proposed work program to be carried out under Parts A (ii) and
(iii) of the Project, for the next fiscal year.
7.    The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Association annually a
report on the implementation of the previous year's work program in
respect of RED, (b) prepare and review with the Association by April
15 each year the proposed work program of RED for the next year and
an updated Yoad Master Plan for the next three years, and (c) make
annual budg4tary allocations to RED in line with the requirements of
the Road Master Plan.


﻿- 19 -
8.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1996,
prepare, using a methodology agreed with the Association, an
analysis of the adequacy of the structure and level of road user
charges and review its findings and recommended actions with the
Association; and (b) thereafter implement the agreed actions.
9.    (a)   The Borrower shall implement an action program in
respect of its road construction industry, which shall include,
inter alia (a) common classification/registration of contractors for
the road sub-sector, (b) streamlining of contracting procedures, and
(c) training and other assistance to contractors.
(b)   The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1996,
develop in consultation with the Association, and implement the use
of new standard contract forms for the road construction industry.
10.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996, carry
out jointly with the Association a mid-term review of the Project.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made excl"sively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions o' this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown .by said documents
and other evidence tp have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unvithdrawn    amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 22 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿- ~-MI IUUUUk III
UMMMML                  MM   3 L
-mPu  -
111:Li lmmummmmqL-
l V-
em
b BbhAMrMMMII
imanJMPl  lim
lj UMMMVWanl -\ \
1        UM  h V
7            -- Teig
44 7


