Documne
The Worl
FOR OFFICIAL
A/           3 S S  cy
Report No. 9635-CY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
AUGUST 1. 1991
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on!y in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Cyprus Pound (CC) -  100 cents
Cc 1.00     =   US$ 2.27  (av. for March, 1991)
Cc 1.00         US$ 2.03, 2.18  (av. for 1989, 1990)
US$ 1.00     -   C£ 0.46 (av. for 1990)
MEASURES AND ABBREVIATIONS
Kilometer (km)             - 0.62 miles
Square kilometer (kn2)     - 0.39 square miles
Hectare (ha)               - 2.47 acres
Cubic meter (m3)           - 220 imperial gallons
Million cubic meters (mcm) - 220,000,000 imperial gallons
Liter (1)                  - 0.220 imperial gallons
Meter (m)                  -  3.28 feet (ft)
Millimeter (mm)            - 0.04 inches
lcd                        - liters per capita per day.
ACRONYMS
ANSB    -  Ayia Napa Sewerage Board
ARI     -  Agricultural Research Institute
CERF    -  Council of Europe Resettlement (Social) Fund
CM      -  Council of Ministers
CPM     -  Critical Path Method
EA(EIA) -  Environmental (Impact) Assessment
EC      -  European Community
FC      -  Famagusta Conveyor
LSD     -  Lands and Surveys Department
LSDB    -  Larnaca Sewerage and Drainage Board
MANR    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOI     -  Ministry of Interior
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
PSB     -  Paralimni Sewerage Board
SBLA    -  Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus
SCP     -  Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources
Development
STP     -  Sewage Treatment Plart
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
WDD     -  Water Development Department (in MANR)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPULIC OF CYPRus
SOUTHEAST COAST BEVERAGE AMD DAINAGR PROJET
STAl APPRAISAL UrQvRT
Table of Contenta
LOAN AND PROJECT SUH      U     M     MA....................          £
I.    1INTRD.UCTIIN .......................                          1
II.   SETRLCNE          ....................                          2
A. Water Resources....................                         2
B. Tourism ........................                            2
C. Sector Service Levels .................                     3
D. Sector Organization ..................                      3
E. Sector Objectives ...................                       4
F. Bank Involvement in the Water and Sewerage Sectors..   4
G. World Bank Lending Strategy for Cyprus........              5
III.  PROJECT AREA. SERICES. AND DEKMND............5
A. Project Areas.....................                          5
B. Existing and Planned Water Supply...........                6
C. Existing Solid Waste Disposal .............                 7
D. Existing Liquid Waste Disposal.............                 7
E. Existing Drainage Systems...............                    8
This report is based on an Appraisal mission which visited Cyprus in March-
April, 1991, consisting of A. Elwan (Task Manager and Senior Economist), N.
Shehadeh (Principal Financial Analyst), S. Margetis (Senior Environmental
Specialist), N. Khouri (UNDP World Bank Water and Sanitation Program Officer),
and J. Pettigrew (Consultant - Sanitary Engineer). The peer reviewer was M.
Dickerson, Principal Engineer, EM5IV. EM5 Infrastructure, Energy and
Environment is the responsible division (Jonathan C. Brown, Division Chief),
Country Department. V, (Russell J. Cheetham, Director), Europe, Middle East and
North Africa.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfoirmance
of their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



lTbla of Contents (cont.)
.tesg No.
IV.  EL1RIJJW= ................,.  9
A.  B   o     ...                 ...                     9
B. Pr oje ctObjctivs ...................................  10
C. Rationale for World Bank Support for the Project .....  10
D.  Planned  Service  Levels ...............................  11
S. Project Components and Desription ...................c  12
The Larnaca Component....                          12
The Ayia Napa/Paralioni Compon nt..14
F. Status of Project Preparation    .      .5............  i
iG. Operation and Maintenance Equipment     .     .      15
H. Construction Supervision            .       .         15
I. Institutional Development           ..                15
J. Land Acquisition       .....................  16
K. Cost Estimates       ...............  ....  16
L. Project Implementation ........................       ..18
M. Procurement         .......................  19
N. Disbursements        ......................  21
0. Project Supervision      ...................  21
V.   THE BORROUERS .............................               22
A. Introduction .............................            22
B. Organization and Management ..........................  22
C. Staffing and Training .............................   23
D. Accounting and Auditing .............................   23
E. Billing and Collection .............................    24
VI. FINANCE .25
A. Past Performance and Present Position .25
B. Rate Structure and Revenues .25
C. Financing Plan .27
D. Future Performance .29
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .........................  31
A. Project Benefits .31
B. Environmental Impact .32
C. Economic Rato of Return .33
D. Affordability .34
E. Risks and Safeguards .35
VIII.  C2REEMENTS REACHE.D AND RECOMMENDATIONS .35



Table of Contents (cont.)
tags No.
1:    Tourism Trends in C          y      p     r      u      s ............................  38
2:     Sumary of Environmental Assessment Reports .........                40
3:    Technieal Alternatives and Least Cost Solution ......                62
4:    Project Cost Estimates ..............................                70
5:     Implementation Schedule .............................               73
6:    Monitoring Indicators ...............................                75
7:    Procurement Schedule ................................                76
8:    Disbursement Schedule ...............................                78
9:    Outline Organizational Structure ....................                79
10:     Details of Financial Analysis ......             ................   80
11:     Economic Analysis ...................................               92
12:     Documents in Project File ...........................    100
NM
IBRD Nos. 22890R, 23037R1, and 22891R



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SKV    ItO AND DRA!NAOK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJRCT SUIKARAY
u9nuan:   Larnaca Sewerage and Drainage Board (LSDB)
Ayia Napa Sewerage Board (QSB)
Paralimni Sewerage Board (PSB)
bgauMnz:   Republic of Cyprus
ImL.a=: US$ 14.7 million to LSDB; US$ 11.3 million to PSB; and US $6.0 million
to ANSb, for a total of US$ 32 million.
mini:        Fifteen years, including five years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Obiecilves: The main objectives are: (i) to provide safe, reliable, and urgently
needed systems for the disposal of domestic and comercial waste water
and thereby eliminate the nuisance and health risks, including the
threat to the important tourist industry, that arise from the present
unsatisfactory disposal arrangements; (ii) to provide key elements of
stormwater drainage systems to reduce intermittent flooding; (iii) to
improve environmental conditions and management of scarce water
resources; and (iv) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
sewerage boards of the project towns, which at present have only a
nucleus of staff.
Project
DesclRtIQn: The project would provide sewerage and drainage systems for Larnaca,
and sewerage systems for the communities of Ayia Napa and Paralimni.
Only the first phase (coastal areas) of a sewerage system for Larnaca
would be included. The project would consist of: (i) central sewage
collection, treatment, and disposal systems; (ii) the distribution of
treated effluent for re-use; (iii) upgrading the existing stormwater
drainage system in Larnaca; and (iv) technical assistance and training
and provision of related equipment to the sewerage boards.
Benefits
ndl RiLsks: The project will replace the inadequate methods of liquid waste
disposal with environmentally sound sewerage systems and treatment and
disposal processes. This will prevent ground water and marine
pollution and will protect the tourism industry in the project areas,
which is of critical importance to the economy. Benefits from the
drainage works include reductions in productivity losses and damage to
property due to flooding, and improvements in sanitary conditions due
to reductions in standing water. The design, location, and planned
operation of the proposed networks and related facilities have been
determined in accordance with the findings and recommendations of the
environmental assessment carried out. The risks relate mainly to
delays in development of adequate institutional capacity, which will
be addressed through the provision of technical assistance and
training, and agreements to be reached on the organizational
structures and schedule of staffing.



LL
Dntimated Proleet Cost:'
Local   Foreign  Total
* US$ Millions-----
Sewerage                                           15.5     6.7    22.2
Sewage Treatment Plant                              1.7     3.4      5.1
Drainage                                            3.3      1.4     4.7
Irrigation                                          4.0     2.4      6.4
Vehicles and Equipment                              0.1     0.3      0.4
Engineering, TA, and TraLning                       1.5     0.8      2.3
Land                                                1.3     -        1.3
Total Base Cost                                      27.4    15.0    42.4
Contingencies                                      7..A 8   -4A4    1
Total Cost, Larnaca                                  .IL.    19LA 4    4 A
A4i& NagA/ParaliMn
Sewerage                                            8.8     7.1    15.9
Sewage Treatment Plant                              3.7     5.8      9.5
Irrigation                                          4.7     4.0      8.7
Vehicles and Equipment                              0.1      0.3     0.4
Engineerlng, TA, and Training                       1.4     1.3      2.7
Land                                                0A      I ---    Q4
Total Base Cost                                      19.1    18.5    37.6
Contingencies                                       5.6     5.5    11.1
Total Cost, Ayia Napa/Paralimni                      24 Z    24LIQ 0   AL7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     59.9    43.4  103.3
at 1990 prices
Financinu Plan:
IBRD Loans                                            --     32.0    32.0
Council of Europe Resettlement Fund                  29.1      2.9    32.0
Sewerage boards                                      17.7      --     17.7
Government                                           1311    8..5    21LA
Total financing                                 59      OA4    103.3
Estimated Bank Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year
129  12941295  199i  1227  1228  1222
. --.-.----.-- USS millions -------------
Annual                              3.4   6.0   6.6   8.0   5.3   2.2   0.5
Cumulative                          3.4   9.4  16.0  24.0  29.3  31.5  32.0
Economic Rates of Return:
Larnaca Component:                     13.6X
Paralimni and Ayia Napa Component:    17.7X
MM:  IBRD No.22890, 23037, and 22891.



R£PUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTIN
1.01     Cyprus is a small country with a population of about 690,000 and an
open economy: exports and imports avoraged about 552 of GDP in recent years.
The economic structure is diversified: in 1990, industry contributed 26X of
GDP and employed 382 of the labor force; the services sector contributed about
61X (including government) of GDP and employed 452 of the labor force. Cyprus
has a long history of good economic performance, characterized by high growth,
low unemployment, a manageable external debt burden, and reasonable price
stability. Continued gains in output and incomes have been recorded over the
last decade. In 1988, Cyprus entered into a Customs Union Agreement with the
European Community (EC), and the phasing  ut of restrictions on trade between
Cyprus and the EC has begun to take effect. In July 1990, it formally applied
to join the EC. Cyprus has recently embarked on An industrial restructuring
program with the objective of moving towards a fully open regime consistent
with EC requirements.
1.02     While rapid growth in exports of agricultural and manufacturing have
played an important role in development, tourism remains the dominant foreign
exchange earner in the economy, with value added in t' F hotel and restaurant
subsector showing growth of over 16% per year. A concentration on
construction of accommodation capacity, together with weak zoning regulation
and enforcement has, however, resulted in some serious deficiencies in
infrastructure, particularly sewerage.
1.03     The proposed project would benefit the towns of Larnaca, and
Paralimni, the village of Ayia Napa and their environs (Maps IBRD 22890 and
22891). Larnaca, witti a population of about 55,000 is the country's third
largest urban area; Ayia Napa and Paralimni are smaller coastal towns with
populations of around 1,400 and 10,000, respectively, but with large inflows
of tourists during the summer. Together, the project area accounts for about
half of all tourist overnights in Cyprus. In all three areas, the present
methods of sewage disposal are highly unsatisfactory, being increasingly
responsible for both groundwater and sea water pollution and presenting health
risks and are highly unsatisfactory, being increasingly responsible for both
groundwater and sea water pollution and presenting health risks and nuisance
odors with a potentially negative effect on tourism. The project covers the
construction of sewage collection, treatment, and disposal systems; works to
reduce flooding; and the training, equipment, and technical assistance needed
to operate and maintain the system. The proposed project is estimated to cost
about US$ 103 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$ 43 million,
and is planned to be completed in the 1993-1999 period. Bank loans totalling
US$ 32 million are proposed to cover a large proportion of the foreign
exchange costs of the project.
1.04     The project is the second (a similar project for the Limassol-
Amathus area was approved in June, 1990) in a recent Government initiative to
provide sewerage and drainage schemes in high priority areas in Cyprus.



-2
I1. SICTORAL CONTXTf
A.  Water Resou a1 s
2.01     Water resources available to Cyprus are scarce and their rational
manag emnt end development are critical to efficient economic development.
Average annual rainfall in Cyprus varies from about 1,000 - in the mountains
to about 400 - in the lower areas towards the east.  About 85X of the total
rainfall occurs between November and March, ar  most of it runs off in flood
flows. Shallow aquifers have variable yields which drop considarably during
the dry season when water extraction is high and induced recharge from rivers
ceases. The potential of the two major deep aquifers is limited as the water
from both is frequently very bard, with a high sulfate content.
2.02     Groundwater from shallow aqulfers and a few perennial springs has
been the main source for irrigation and for water supply of urban and rural
communities. As most groundwater resources have been developed and many
aquifers overpumped, surface water is increasingly important as the
predominant source of water for development. There is some surplus of water
in the western part of the island on the southern slopes of the Trodos
Mountains. Development of this water supply resource is under way by the
Government with Bank assistance, principally under Phases I and II of the
Southern Conveyor Project for Water Resources Development (SCPI Ln 2386-CY and
SCPII Ln 2914-CY) -- the largest of the major water resources development
projects for Cyprus. The SCP is a multi-purpose project to alleviate water
shortages in the main urban centers and tourist areas and provide vitally
needed irrigation water. The closing date for Phase I has been extended to
December 31, 1991, and Phase II is scheduled for completion in 1994.
2.03     The scarcity of water and the high cost of developing the few
remaining water resources have induced a general awareness in both Government
and Water Boards, of the need for conserving water resources in Cyprus. The
Government is introducing basic policy measures aimed at optimizing their
utilization, and endeavoring to increase cost recovery, particularly of
irrigation water, which is still priced substantially below its economic
coa t .V
B.  Tourls
2.04     Over the last decade, real growth of almost 10  per annum in the
sector led GDP growth averaglng 6.0% per annum. Gross foreign exchange
receipts from tourism amounted to C£ 490 million (US$ 995m) in 1989 compared
to CC 365 million (US$ 781m) in 1988, an increase of about 27X. Annex 1 shows
trends in tourist arrivals and overnights, bed capacity and oc.U-pancy rates,
v Under the Southern Conveyor Project, Phase II (Ln. 2914-CY), Goverrment has
agreed to establish charges for irrigation water sufficient to recover 381 of
the weighted average unit cost, and to maintain tariffs on domestic water
which will cover operating and maintenance costs, debt service or
depreciation, and yearly revenue shortfalls.



3
and ln gross tourism receipts. In the fi at ten months of 1990, tourist
arrivals registered a 16X increase over arrLvals for the same period of 1989.
Labor constraLnts, partlcularly in the unskilled and semi-skilled areas, are
beginning to be felt. The availability of potable water is also, potentially,
a maJor constraint to tourism growth. The Government is aware of the need for
an appropriate development strategy for tourism, and ln 1989 declared a
ioratorLum on the isuance of constructLon permits for new touriLs
accoomodation. The moratorlum was lifted for most areas In December 1990, at
which time new condltlons for tourlsm development were enacted, including the
limitation that only 4- or 5- star hotels could be constructed ln large parts
of the areas zoned for tourlsm development.
C.  _e_r Service Levels
2.05     Only Nicosia has a piped sewerage system, constructed under a Bank
assisted project (Ln. 729-CY, signed in 1971). Construction ls expected to
begin ln 1991 on the Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Dralnage Project (Ln. 3222-
CY) and the system should be fully operational by 1997. The remaining urban
population is served mainly by individual disposal units consisting of septic
tanks and percolatLon pits. Recently constructed hotels and apartment
buildings are served by small biological package treatment plants; although
there are occasional operational problems, generally these function well and
the effluents are used to irrigate the hotels' grounds. Problems of sewage
disposal are being experienced in high density areas, in coastal areas with
high groundwater levels, and where soils have poor permeability.
2.06     Virtually the entire population of Cyprus is served with piped water
of satisfactory quality. However, since Cyprus is a water-scarce country,
water rationing is required when rainfall has been particularly low.
D. SLctor Irgani ation
2.07     Water resource development and the supply of bulk water for
agricultural and urban use is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR), and is carried out through its Water
Development Department (WDD). Drinking water quality standards consistent
with WHO guidelines are established and monitored by the Ministry of Health.
Sewage effluent quality standards that will protect the public and the
environment have been set under the Sewerage and Drainage Law of 1971 and its
subsequent amendments, and the Ministry of Health is responsible for
monitorlng. Sewage effluent quality standards for sea disposal are
administered by the Department of Fisheries of MANR, and are in compliance
with the Convention for the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea, which Cyprus
signed in 1976 and ratified in 1979.
2.08     Each municipal area is responsible for the provision of water supply,
sewerage and drainage within its corporate boundaries, and in some cases, to
contiguous areas when agreement is obtained from the concerned autf)rities.
Services are provided through separate Water Boards, and Sewerage and Drainage
Boards, under the guidance of the Ministry of Interior. Water supply in rural
areas is the responsibility of local communities, administered through Village
Counclls.



-4
F. Sectc2 Oblectives
2.09     Provision of sewerage in both urban and rural areas has been given
high priority by the Government of Cyprus. Plans are uinder way to install
piped sewerage sy3tems for the currently unserved larger towns and tourist
centers (Limassol, Larnaca, Ayia Napa, Paralimni, and Paphos). Earlier dol&ys
in project implementation (paras. 4.01 - 4.03) have contributed to the current
urgency of the situation. The sewerage system to be conastructed for the
Limassol-Amathus area under Ln. 3222-CY, approved in June 1990, will be the
first aajor urban area system to be constructed since the Nicosia project was
completed in 1980.  The proposed project will address the needs of the next
high priority areas, leaving only Paphos and the smaller r-.ral towns without
piped sewerage systems. The Government also wishes to define a strategy for
rural sanitation in Cyprus that would be consistent with its other objectives
in the areas of natural resource conservation and the environment; to this
end, a study of rural sanitation in Cyprus is being financed under SCPII.
F. Bank Involvement in the Water Supplv and Sewerage Sector
2.10     Bank involvement in the water supply and sewerage sector started in
1971 with the Nicosia Sewerage Project (Ln. 729-CY) and Famagusta Sewerage and
Drainage Project (Ln. 730-CY). These projects provided for sewage collection
and disposal facilities, and were well advanced until the events of July 1974,
when the implementation of both projects was suspended. Subsequent
arrangements were made to complete the works in Nicosia; operations began in
1980, and although the operation of the system is divided, the Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 3694) concluded that the project's
institutional and investment objectives had been met. Similar arrangements
for Famagusta were not possible, and the loan was closed in 1981.
2.11     The Bank became active in the sector again in 1983, when a sewerage
and drainage project was appraised for the Limassol area.  A loan of US$ 16.8
million for Limassol was made in FY84. A project for the Larnaca area was
also under preparation, and this was appraised in July 1985.  The Limassol
project became effective in September 1985, about 15 months after Board
approval. Problems were experienced in both projects, however. The Larnaca
project was not processed further because of difficulties in the financing and
cost recovery arrangements, and the Limassol loan was cancelled in April 1987
(without any disbursement), at the request of the Borrower, because of
problems related to acquisition of the sewage treatment plant site and project
financing.
2.12     Since that time, an increasing awareness of the waste water disposal
problems has precipitated renewed efforts to overcome the obstacles. In early
1989, the Government requested that the Bank again consider financing sewerage
and drainage schemes for coastal towns because of the accelerating need to
I/ Construction, with Bank assistance, of a sewerage system for Famagusta was
almost complete in July 1974 when political events caused implementation to be
suspended (para 2.10).



. 5 .
rectify the unsatisfactory situation before it affected the important tourism
lndustry. i project to provide sewerage and drainage in the Limassol-Amathus
area was appraLsed in February 1990, and became effective in December, 1990.
The Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage Project would address the problems
in the next largest town, Yarnaca, and in two smaller towns which are also
ioportant tourist centers.
2.13     The Bank has also assisted in the implementation of two multi-
purpose water resource development projects --the Vasilikos-Pendaskinos (VPP)
(Ln. 1658-CY, completed in 1987) and the ongoing SCPs (para. 2.02).
0. World Bank Lending Strateag for Cvnrus
2.14     The objective of the Bank's assistance strategy in Cyprus is to
support the Government's efforts aimed at diversifying the country's economic
base, modernizing its industrial and financial sectors, further improving its
transport and communications infrastructure, and improving the quality of the
environment. In providing assistance, the Bank focusses on those areas where
its technical and international experience are the most valued and have the
most impact, particularly in project design and sector work. The Bank's
lending strategy in Cyprus is to provide assistance for a limited number of
projects, in high priority sectors, in support of the Government's overall
development plan.
2.15     The Government has identified the sewerage sector as a high priority
area, and is seeking solutions to its sewage disposal problems that are
environmentally sound and make optimum use of scarce resources. The towns on
the southeast coast of Cyprus have been identified as the next priority for
sewerage schemes (after L'massol-Amathus) in a series of actions by the
Government to provide sewerage facilities in unserviced urban areas (para.
2.12). The project would provide much needed infrastructure to protect the
resident population and visitors to the area from potential health hazards,
substantially eliminate the nuisance caused by unpleasant odor..;, and would
reduce the risk of pollution of ground water aquifers.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS. SERVICES AJRE DEMAND
A. Prolect Areas
3.01     Lanaca, situated on Larnaca Bay on the south coast of Cyprus, is the
country's third largest urban agglomeration. The population has increased
from 19,600 prior to the events of 1974 to around 55,300 in 1990. Larnaca is
the site of Cyprus's primary intsrnational airport, accounting for 90X of all
air passenger and freight movements; while the port (the second most important
in Cyprus) accounts for 35X to 40% of the country's imports and exports.
Because of its sandy beaches and recreational facilities, it is also an
important tourist center. The tourism sector in Larnaca employs approximately
3,500 people. In 1990 there were close to 10,000 tourist beds, representing
some 16X of the island's capacity, and over 1 million tourist overnight stays.



3.02     The Larnaca project area extends over approximately 7,000 hectares,
encompassing part of the Larnaca Municipality, the village of Livadhia, five
refugee settlements (or "villages"), a coastal strip extending north of the
town with most of the hotel development in the area, and south to include the
Larnaca International Airport and the Salt Lake. This area extends for about
2C kilometers along the bay, with a maximum width of about 10 kilometers (Map
IERD 22890). The Municipal Corporation of Larnaca has jurisdiction within the
town limits; the remainder of the project area, including the northern coastal
strip and Livadhia, is administered by the Larnaca District. High population
densities have overloaded the existing wastewater disposal facilities; the
lack of a sewage collection and treatment system has resulted in a
deterioration in sanitary conditions and could undermine the valuable tourist
industry. Because of inadequate drainage, flooding occurs in several areas of
the town during the rainy season.
3.03     ylia NMaa and Paralimni are small settlements (populations about 1400
and 10,000, respectively) in Famagusta District, about 35 kilometers to the
east of Larnaca, and some 10 kilometers south of the town of Fa-Agusta. Both
have relatively large tourist developments, which have grown steadily since an
initial influx of tourism diverted from Famagusta by the events of 1974. The
two communities together account for virtually all of the tourism in the
Famagusta District, amounting to some 35X of all tourist overnight stays.
Ayia Napa, with its sandy beaches, is the second largest tourist destination
in Cyprus with 23X of the tourist beds (after the Limassol-Amathus area which
accounts for about 252 of the total). Of the 11,000 beds in Ayia Napa, about
8,000 are in hotels and hotel apartments. The hotels stretch out along the
coast on both sides of Ayia Napa village. The area is administered by the
Ayia Napa Improvement Board. Paralimni, with an additional 4,300 tourist
beds, accounts for another 9X of tourist capacity. The town is about 3
kilometers inland, and its hotel development in the Protaras area is
relatively compact, although at some distance (about 6 kilometers) from the
center of the town (Map IBRD 22891).
B. Existina and Planned Water SupplR
3.04     Larnaca is supplied with potable water from the Famagusta Conveyor,
(FC) pipelineV, local Larnaca Water Board boreholes located in the Klaudhia
area about 7 kilometers southwest of town, and from private boreholes. Non-
potable supplies used for irrigation are brought to the Larnaca area by the
Southern Conveyor pipeline (SCP). The supply of potable water is adequate at
present, and provision for water demand of the Larnaca area up to the year
2010 has been made within the resource allocations of the major surface water
source of the Kouris reservoir, constructed under SCP I (Ln. 2386-CY). The
associated water treatment plant, located at Tersephanou, is expected to be
completed by 1993. The Larnaca Water Board is an efficient organization, and
has recently succeeded in reducing its unaccounted for water to about 16X from
previous levels in the range of 25-30Z.
a The FC carries water from the Yermasoyia dam near Limassol eastwards into
Famagusta District. It precedes the Southern Conveyor pipeline (para. 2.02).



. 7 -
3.05     In 1989, the total water consumption in the LArnaca Water Board area
of supply area reached 3.3 million cubic meters (mcm). Thl. is almost wholly
domstic consumption, as industrial demand is insignificant. Per capita
consumption is about 160 lcd. Tourist consumption varies seasonally, and is
in the order of 200 lcd for apartments and 300 lcd in hotels. Disposal of
sewage generated by the water supply is described in para. 3.11.
3.06     The Ayia Napa/Paralimni areas are supplied with potable water from
the FC. Responsibility for supply in the two areas rests with the Paralimni
Municipality and the Ayia Napa Improvement Board. There is also a limited
amount of groundwater from boreholes, but these are of diminishing value due
to lowering of the water table and pumping cannot be increased without risking
saline intrusion. Water consumption figures are estimated to be of the order
of 150 lcd. About 80X of water for irrigation purposes comes from the SCP,
the remainder coming from boreholes.
C. Ezistina Solid Waste Disposal
3.07     Generally, solid waste collection and disposal are satisfactory.
However, in spite of municipal ordinances some refuse is dumped in natural
drainage ravines and vacant land. Control measures are being taken by
municipal officials to reduce such problems by prosecuting violation.
3.08     In the Larnaca area, domestic and commercial refuse collection and
disposal for Larnaca and nearby villages are carried out by the municipal
government. The landfill site for solid waste contains about 90 ha in the
Tersaphanou area, about 8 kilometers southwest of the town.  The landfill is
about 15 meters deep, and is estimated to have about a 20 year life. Refuse
is spread, compacted and covered with soil, following generally accepted
landfill practices.
3.09     Ayia Napa and Paralimni have separate sanitary landfill sites.  In
Ayia Napa, a new sanitary landfill site in a ravine, equipped with a
compactor, has recently been put into operation. Operations are about to
start in Paralimni, using an old quarry site. In both cases, accepted
sanitary landfill practices are being observed.
D. Existing Liguid Waste Disposal
3.10     The project areas lack centralized sewerage systems.  In general,
sewage disposal consists of on-site disposal units such as septic tanks with
percolation pits, and holding tanks. There are some exceptions, such as the
small collection and treatment systems in two housing estates and a beach area
in Larnaca, and biological package treatment plants in the larger hotels and
apartment buildings. There is no significant industry in the project areas.
Most hotels have package sewage treatment plants which are costly to
construct, operate and maintain. Some of the hotels have tertiary treatment
units (filtration and disinfection) and the treated effluent is used for
irrigation of hotel gardens. The unused effluent and the sludge from these
small treatment plants, the liquid wastes from the holding tanks used by the
rest of the hotels, and the contents of the domestic septic tanks and
cesspools, are all taken to stabilization ponds by tanker trucks.



- 8 -
3.11     For the Larnaca area, lagoons for disposal of liquid wastes are
located about 10 kilometers north of the town center, beyond the village of
Kellia. Theoe do not function as stabilization ponds, and are simply lagoons
which would constitute a nuisance but for their remoteness from habitation.
They stould begin to funttion as intended when the quantities of waste have
been reduced as a result of the sewage treatment plant proposed under the
project. The lagoons are run by the District of Larnaca, and costs are
apportioned between the municipality and villages according to use. The site
has a clay subsoil, and so leachate is not a problem. Effluent from the small
treatmnt plants serving the housing estate3 is used on land; in the case of
the contact stabilization treatment plant in the Zeno Government housing
estate, grass in a nearby stadium is being irrigated. In addition, the
Mackenzie Restaurant area, a beach resort at the southern limits of Larnaca,
has a centralized sewer system and a small treatment works, completed in 1988.
The effluent is used to irrigate grass, trees and shrubs within the area. In
the Ayia Napa/Paralimni areas, liquid waste is disposed of in lagoons in
remote areas. Concern with the possibility of overflow and subsequent seepage
into the sea during heavy rains has led to the decision to establish a new
disposal site near the proposed sewage treatment plant. This will be in use
from early 1991 until the new treatment plant is operational.
3.12     The present situation is highly unsatisfactory.  In Larnaca, due to
the high ground water table in the low-lying areas of town, and increasing
flows from new and larger buildings, septic tanks overflow as the ground
cannot absorb the effluents from soakaways. The situation is particularly
serious in the older parts of the town, due to the higher population densities
and long period of usage. The septic tanks and absorption pits do not
function properly because (i) volumes of wastewaters far exceed the soil
absorption capacity; (ii) there is insufficient space for construction of
disposal units of the proper size; and (iii) the groundwater table is high.
Septic tanks are not emptied regularly (pumping out of the tanks is relatively
expensive), exacerbating the situation. Wastewater volumes in the area are
increasing, and the situation is rapidly deteriorating. Tourism is an
important concern in all the project areas, and the tourism industry is very
sensitive to the risk of groundwater or sea pollution. In addition, the
continual presence of tanker trucks presents a visual and odor nuisance.
E. Existina Drainage Systems
3.13     Larnaca is surrounded by hills, and the town itself is divided into
several small drainage zones running down to the sea. There are some low
lying areas separated from the sea by the higher ground at the coast.
Larnaca's drainage system consists of surface water flows along streets, and
small-diameter roadside drains in some sections of the downtown center and
coastal area, all of which discharge in Larnaca Bay. Flood waters reaching
the Larnaca area originate from the following natural drainage basins: (i) the
Kalokhorio River, which includes a diversion canal to bypass the Salt Lake;
(ii) the town center basin, which is divided by three relatively low finger-
like ridges; (iii) the Aradhippou River, which fans out forming a delta
covering a large area within the northern end of the town and Livadhia
village; and (iv) the north coastal plain, which is a coastal area 500 meters
wide, north of Larnaca. Frequent flooding occurs in the low-lying coastal



areas, particularly those below the 2.0 meter contour, because the natural
drainage to the sea has been blocked by the embankment of the Famagusta road,
as vell as by land reclamation near the port area. Increased land developmont
activities, together with poor permeability of soils and a high water table in
low-lying areas, has not only aggravated the severity of flooding, but also
cr-ated an unhealthy situation due to the formation of marshes which provide
areas for mosquito breeding. Added to this, septic tanks tend to overflow
particularly during floods.
3.14     In Ayia Napa and Paralimni, due to the relatively steep gradients of
the streets, surface water finds its way along streets to natural ditches and
ponds, and the problems associated with rainstorms have not been severe. The
rapid growth of tourism in the area and consequent increase in population and
now hotel areas will gradually alter the situation. As the natural surface
drainage becomes more complicated, technical solutions may become necessary.
The major stormwater collection systems have recently been constructed in Ayia
Napa area, and no further work except for some repaving of streets and
guttering is considered necessary in the near future. In Paralimni, the major
stormwater collection systems have been designed and are under construction.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Back mro4d
4.01    The Municipal Corporation of Larnaca, with the assistance of
consultants, developed a master plan and carried out a feasibility study for
storawater drainage and sanitary sewerage systems for Larnaca and the
surrounding area in 1982. The terms of reference for the study were in
accordance with the Government's 1978 policy decision to provide for the reuse
of all treated sewage effluents, and consideration of a sea outfall was
excluded from the study. A Bank oission reviewed the feasibility study and
master plan in June 1984, and agreed that a supplementary study, taking into
account some of the options previously excluded, was needed to expand and
update the original study. The findings of the supplementary study, and of a
Government Committee review of the preliminary environmental and agricultural
studies, were that the least cost solution included a treatment plant on a
oito south of Larnaca airport, with a sea outfall. This site was recommended
because of (i) its distance from bathing beaches and inhabited areas, and (ii)
its proximity to agricultural and grazing lands that would allow a future
pilot scheme for land disposal of the effluent. A Bank mission of February
1985 concurred with these findings, and a project for Larnaca was appraised in
July 1985.
4.02     Approval of the sewer rates by the Sewerage Board was one of the
conditions for negotiations, to be held in late 1985. Approval was not
obtained, however, because the rates were perceived to be too high by
Larnaca's Chamber of Commerce; the hoteliers were also not supportive, having
already invested in individual treatment plants. The project remained
inactive for several years. In early 1989, the Government requested that the
Bank again consider financing sewerage and drainage schemes in high priority
coastal towns. Progress in the preparation of a project for Larnaca and other



- 10 -
coastal towns was followed during the processing of the Limassol-Amathus
project. By October, 1989, after efforts by the Larnaca authorities in
explaining the environmental and financial consequences of further delay, it
was felt that the residents of Larnaca were now fully aware of the need to
finance the scheme as soon as possible, resolving the previous difficulties
regarding the financing scheme. The Sewerage Board hired consultants in
August 1990 to update the necessary studies. The updated studies outlined a
feasible re-use scheme for the treated effluent, and concluded that a sea
outfall would not be necessary.
4.03     The Feasibility Study and Master Plan for sewerage and drainage in
Ayia Napa and Paralimni was finalized in January 1984. Supplementary studies
on effluent disposal (to the sea, and for irrigation) were completed in
September, 1984. Little progress was made until recently, when the urgency of
the situation prompted the two communities to update the studies. The
Feasibility Study and Master Plan was completed in final form for Ayia Napa in
December 1989, and in draft form for Paralimni in November, 1990. The same
consultant carried out both studies, as well as an additional study requested
by the Hinistry of the Interior, comparing separate treatment plant sites to
the alternative of one common treatment plant site. Environmental assessments
were carried out separately for the Larnaca and Ayia Napa/Paralimni
components, and draft reports were completed in February 1991 (paras. 7.05 to
7.07, and Annex 2). Appraisal took place in March, 1991.
B. Proiect Oblectives
4.04     The project's main objectives are: (i) to provide safe, reliable
systems for the disposal of human and commercial waste water and thereby
eliminate the nuisance and health risks, including the threat to the area's
important tourist industry, that arise from the present unsatisfactory
disposal arrangements; (ii) to provide key elements of stormwater drainage
systems to reduce intermittent flooding; (iii) to improve environmental
conditions and management of scarce water resources; and (iv) to strengthen
the institutional capacity of the sewerage boards, which at present have only
a nucleus of staff.
C. Rationale for World BAnk SuRRort for the Proiect
4.05     The Bank's country assistance strategy is in agreement with the
Government's priorities concerning environmental issues, particularly those
related to the protection of coastal waters and maximum utilization of scarce
water resources. Support for the proposed project would foster the rational
use of an additional water resource -- treated wastewater. In the absence of
the project, wastewater can be utilized only in relatively small quantities,
with the vast majority constituting a potential pollutant that is both
unpleasant and costly to dispose of. The Bank's strategy also seeks to
support sustainable economic development, ensuring that the necessary
infrastructure is in place to accommodate tourism growth, thus minimizing the
adverse environmental impacts of the increasing number of visitors. In
addition to supporting the Government in addressing its priority concerns,
Bank assistance for the proposed project is indicated because of limited



v 11 -
operational experience in the country with centralized sewage collection and
treatmnt systems and reuse of treated effluentt'
D.   lanned Servies Lavels
4.06                 AIe 11Mn A :  Since the events of 1974, Larnaca's population
increased from about 19,600 to an estimated 55,346 inhabitants in 1990.
Tourile has greatly expanded, and in 1989 (the most recent year for which
complete figures are available), about 1.4 million overnights were spent in
Larnaca District, most of them in the town of Larnaca Ltself and the adjacent
coastal strip containing most of the hotels. The area to be served includes
the low lying area of the town close to the sea; this area is about 6 km long
and varies ln width between 500 meters and 1.5 km. Several refugee
settlements, or *villages', to the northwest of the town are also to be
connected to the sewerage system. These are relatively dense low-rise
apartment complexes, containing about 7,800 inhabitants in total, which depend
primarily on septic tanks for disposal of wastewater. Sewerage will also be
provided along the coastal strip containing mostly hotels and holiday
apartments, with some areas of high density residential development, that
extends some 7 km north beyond the edge of the town, as well as to the new
tourist development that extends southward as far as the airport. The
sewerage area contains about 60X of the town's population, and close to 100l
of the tourist population. The remaining population living in the less
densely developed areas, and at higher ground elevations, are not considered
in the proposed sewerage scheme, and would continue to be serviced by
individual disposal units.
4.07     The new planning proposals are to maintain the same mix of
development, but at considerably lower plot development ratios. The sewers
will be sized to take all the sewage that will be generated when the sewerage
area is developed to its maximum capacity (about 77,000 population).  If a
decision is made to sewer additional areas of Larnaca, they could be
accommodated into the proposed system if the sewerage areas have not been
developed to 100 X capacity. If however, a decision is made to sewer the
areas of town above the 5 m contour, a new trunk line will be needed. The
second system would be independent of the proposed system, and construction of
the new trunk would not disrupt activities in the town center. The planned
service levels, in terms of population equivalents which include tourists, are
given in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: PoRulation Proiections for the Larnaca Proje9t Area
Y£L        Sewerage (Proiect) Area   Total Larnaca Area
1990               41,301                    55,346
2010               49,446                    63,630
A The Jurisdiction of the only operational system in Cyprus (Nicosia) is
divided. (para 2.11).



- 12 -
4.08     AXia Na2a and Paralimni:  Ayia Napa is a small village, with a
population of about 1600 in 1990; Paralimni is larger with a resident
population of about 10,000. Tourism is the main industry in both communities.
Tourism is growing very rapidly, and it is expected that the number of beds in
the two areas combined will increase from around 26,500 in 1990 to around
80,000 in the year 2005, as shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Ponulation Projections for the Avia Naga/Paralimni Project Area
A_ ia Mam  Prolset Area           Paralimni Project Ar-a
Xaa    Resident and                       Resident and
LdabLorforc    Tourist   Total    Labor  force   Iourit    Total
1990       4,600      16,500   21,100       10,000       10,000    20,000
2005       9,300       36,000   45,300      21,000       44,000    65,000
These figures imply an average annual increase of 7.4X in bed capacity over
the next fifteen years. Although these figures appear high, tourism demand is
very strong in the Famagusta area. As can be seen from the tables in Annex 1,
the number of tourist overnights in 1-5 star hotels ini the Famagusta area has
grown at an average annual rate of 19.5X over the ten-year period 1979-1989,
higher than the growth for Cyprus as a whole (about 131 p.a.)Y Capacity has
grown at a slightly lower pace (about 191), and the occupancy rate has
therefore increased slightly over the period.
E. Prolect Components and Description
4.09     The project has two geographically distinct components: the Larnaca
area component, and the Ayia Napa/Paralimni area component. Their locations
are shown on Nap No. IBRD 22891.
The lArnaca Comnegnt
4.10     The proposed Larnaca area sewerage and drainage scheme would provide
sewerage for the coastal part of the Larnaca area and for the refugee
settlements on the northern edge of the town, a sewage treatment plant, and
facilities for treating, storing, and distributing the effluent for irrigation
purposes. It would also upgrade the storm drainage system in parts of the
area most susceptible to flooding. The technical and least-cost aspects of
the proposed system are described in Annex 3; and the choice of sewage
treatment technology and sewage treatment plant site location are outlined in
Table A2.1 in Annex 2. The proposed project component constitutes a first
A/ With tourism growth of these magnitudes, water and labor constraints will
be of increasing concern. However, becauset of the importance of the tourism
industry to the economy, Government policy is to give the water needs of the
sector priority over those of agriculture. This reallocation will ease some
of the labor constraints as well. Ultimately, water desalination in tourism
areas may be necessary, but the indications are that this would be well
justified.



- 13 -
phase, iLe., the higher prlority works, to be constructed durlng the 1992-
1993 period, and includes the following major components:
(a)   a saworage system wlth 12 sub-system having about 60 km of
laterals and main sewers, includlng service connections within the
public right-of-way, and associated appurtenances;
(b)   an interceptor sewer with sewage lift stations at intervals, long
located in the north coastal area and central Larnaca, extending
to about 16 km in length;
(c)   17 pumping stations and associated pumping mains;
(d)   a sewage treatment plant sized for an average sewage flow of 7000
m/day, with a peak flow of 17,500 m'/day;
(e)   a storm drainage system consisting of: (i) about 4 km of flood
control canal and secondary collector drains at the northern end
of Larnaca; (ii) about 1 km of interceptor drains to drain low-
lying areas at the southern end of Larnaca; and, (iii) about 2 km
of drains for central Larnaca flood control; and five pumping
stations;
(f)   operation and maintenance equipment for the sewerage and drainage
systems;
(g)   consultant services for project implementation, including
institutional development of LSDB; and
(h)   storage reservoir and distribution system for treated effluent.
4.11     Sewerage:  The technical aspects of the proposed system are outlined
in Annex 3. The sewer system would comprise laterals, main sewers and
collector sized to meet sewage flows through the year 2010. The area's
topography, i.e., a low-lying coastal strip, dictates that the laterals
discharge into a series of main sewers, parallel to each other, running west
to east towards the sea, with the collector traversing the area from north to
south close to the shoreline (Map IBRD 22890). Pumping will be required along
the whole length.
4.12     Savge Treatment:  The proposed STP design, based on 2010 water use
projections, consists of two oxidation ditches and two final sedimentation
tanks. As the sewage Is expected sometimes to be septic, no inljet works or
primary sedimentation tanks would be provided, and sewage would be delivered
directly into the highly oxygenated liquor in the oxidation tanks in order to
minimize odor nuisance. Effluent would be further treated by rapid gravity
filters before passing to a storage reservoir. From there, it would be
chlorinated and pumped into the distribution system. Operational experience
may determine that the filters will be used after storage. Surplus sludge
would be thickened, digested aerobically, and dried on sludge drying beds
(10).
4.13     Distribution System for Treated Effluent:  From the pumping station
at the STP, effluent would be pumped through a main along the public highway



14 -
along the coast parallel to the trunk sewer. Branch lines would be laid to
the public parks and tourist areas, where the treated effluent would be used
for irrigation purposes. PumpLng capacity provided would be 280 1/s (the peak
demand during the month of July).
4.14    DfLzg: The drainage works included in the project cover only
those priority areas recommended in the Larnaca Drainage Master Plan dated
1982. The proposed drainage systems have been based on an evaluation of
alternatives, such as reducing the systems by reforestation, and flood control
dams within the watersheds (which are long-term solutions), and various
channel routings and sizes of structures, etc.  Design is based on a storm
return period of 2 years. A major part of the improvement works lies in
increasing the carrying capacity of the Kalokhorio river channel. The
drainage infrastructure to be constructed under the project will be maintained
by LSDB; the existing drainage infrastructure will continue to be the
responsibility of the municipality.a
The Ayia Napa/Paralimni Component
4.15     This component consists of sewerage systems for the communities of
Ayia Napa and Paralimni and their associated tourism areas; a shared sewage
treatment plant in a central location; and storage and distribution
arrangements for the treated wastes (as in the case of Larnaca, reuse
potential for the treated effluent makes a sea outfall unnecessary). Sewage
from Ayia Napa will be pumped directly to the treatment plant through the main
pumping station; sewage from Paralimni town will be conveyed along a gravity
sewer to the coast and connected to the sewerage system of Protaras (the
coastal tourism area associated with Paralimni), from where it will be pumped
to the treatment plant (see Map IBRD 22891). The proposed sewage treatment
plant site is to the east of Ayia Napa and southwest of the Paralimni tourism
area. The landscape in the area is open, with sparse forest vegetation and
some limited cultivation of fruit trees. Treated effluent will be conveyed
back to the hotel areas along irrigation pipelines. The storage area for the
treated effluent is located about 1 km. from the treatment plant.
4.16     The following specific components are included in the proposed
project: -
(a)   a sewerage system for Ayia Napa and its tourism area, including:-
-     a sewage collection network consisting of about 21 km of
laterals and main sewers;
-     a collector sewer, i.e., main interceptor/force main about
10 km long; and
-     ten pumping stations.
(b) a sewerage system for Paralimni and its tourism area, including:-
-     a sewage collection network consisting of about 35 km of
laterals and main sewers;
1V This arrangement is satisfactory as the networks are separate. Any future
changes in this arrangement will be carried out in consultation with the Bank.



* 15 -
a collector sewer, i.e., main interceptor/force main about
10 km long; and
-     24 pumping stations.
(c)   a sewage treatment plant of about 26,000 o/day capacity;
(d)   operation and maintenance equipment for the sewage treatment plant
and sewerage systems;
(e)   rapid gravity filters, storage reservoir, and distribution
networks for treated effluent (about 17 km in Ayia Napa and 26 km
in Paralimni); and
(f)   consultant services for project implementation, including
institutional development of the Ayia Napa and Paralimni Sewerage
Boards.
F. Status of Project Preparation
4.17     For the Larnaca component, designs are complete for the sewerage and
sewage treatment plant, including the tertiery treatment facilities for the
effluent. The design of the effluent distribution system is expected to be
complete by November, 1991. For the Ayia Napa/Paralimni component, outline
designs have been completed for the sewerage, sewage treatment plant, and
effluent re-use scheme. Tendering procedures should be starting by January,
1992 for the Larnaca component, and by end-February, 1992 for the Ayia
Napa/Paralimni component; and the status of project preparation is considered
satisfactory.
G. Operation and Maintenance Equipment
4.18     Equipment will be provided to enable the sewerage boards to
efficiently operate and maintain their sewerage and drainage systems. Items
include truck mounted combined jetting/suction machines, trailer mounted
jetting machines, and trailer mounted winding devices, vehicles and
miscellaneous sewer cleaning tools.
H. Construction SuDervision
4.19     Experienced engineering consultants will assist the sewerage boards
in construction supervision of the project works. (paras. 4.25 and 4.26).
I. Institutional DeveloRment
4.20     Organization and management of the sewerage boards is discussed in
para 5.02. The project will include technical assistance to strengthen the
sewerage boards. Similar organizations in Cyprus have demonstrated their
soundness, and arrangements for technical assistance will allow flexibility in
the amount and type of assistance to be provided. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Boards would recruit staff in a timely manner in line with the



- 16 -
organizational chart in Annex 9 (para 8.03-b). Some specific training for the
sewerage boards' staff will be obtained under the equipment supply and
installation contracts (para. 5.03).
J. Land Acaulaition
4.21     The land for tne treatment plant in Larnaca belongs to the LSDB.  The
additional land required for the reservoir to hold the treated effluent
belongs to the Government. The land for the Ayia Napa/Paralimni treatment
plant and effluent reservoir site also belongs to the Government. The signing
of leases between the Government and the Boards for the Government-owned land
is a condition of loan effectiveness (pAra. 8.03-c).
K. Cost Lstimates
4.22     The combined cost of the two sub-projects, including physical and
price contingencies, is about US$ 103.3 million; US$ 54.6 million for the
Larnaca component, and US$ 48.7 million for the Ayia Napa/Paralinni
components.
4.23     Detailed project cost estimates are given in Annex 4, and are
summarized in Tables 4.3 and 4.4. The cost estimates of the sewerage system
for Larnaca, Ayia Napa and Paralimni are based on preliminary designs. Cost
estimates for the sewage treatment plant and pumping stations are based on
preliminary designs. The costs of a large part of the drainage works are
based on detailed designs, the remainder on preliminary designs. Costs of
pipe materials and major electrical/mechanical equipment are based on recent
representative quotations furn'shed by established suppliers. Civil works
construction costs are on the basis of data furnished by major local
construction companies. Unit rates are based on price levels prevailing in
the third quarter of 1990. Local inflation is projected at 4X per year,
throughout the projection period; international inflation follows the
projected index of unit value of manufactured exports, and averages 3.41 for
the 1990-2000 period.



- 17 -
Table 4.3:  Swumrv of Prolect Cost Estimtes - Larnac
Foreign
Local Foreign toS        Local Fo*1W        W T al    s X of
---- (Cl million)---    --(U.S . b111onii          t l
A. Sewrage                       6.8      2.9    9.8       15.5      6.7    22.2    30
B. Sewage Treatment Plant        0.7      1.5    2.2        1.7      3.4      S.1    67
C. Drainage                      1.6      0.6    2.1        3.3      1.4      4.7    30
0. Irrigation                    1.8      1.1    2.4        4.0      2.4      6.4    38
E. Vehicles and Equipmnt         0.0      0.2    0.2        0.1      0.3      0.4    75
F. Design. Supervision,
TA. and Training          0.7      0.4    1.0        1.5      0.8      2.3    35
6 Land                            Li   Li   Q Q             Q        Li   LI   2
Total Base Cost                 12.1      6.6   18.7       27,4    15.0    42.4    35
(12/90 prices)
Contingencies                  3 4             _ 9    5_4  7 8    4  4      L2
Total Cost Larnaca              15.5      8.5   24.1       35.2    19.4    54.6    36
Table 4.4:  Sumnrv of Proiect Cost Estimates - Paralimni/Avia Baoa
Foreign
Local Fore an Totol    LocaI Foreian 1           as X of
(---(CC million)---    --(U.S. Smillion)--    totj
A. Sewerage                       3.9    3.1    7.0         8.8    7.1   15.9        44
B. Sewage Treatment Plant         1.6    2.5    4.2         3.7    5.8    9.5        61
C. Irrigation                     2.1    1.8    3.8         4.7    4.0    8.7        46
D. Vehicles and Equipment         0.0    0.2    0.2         0.1    0.3    0.4        75
D. Design. Supervision.
TA. and Training             0.6    0.6    1.2        1.4    1.3    2.7         48
E. Land                           0 2    0.0    0 2         0.4   LQ    014           Q
Total Base Cost                   8.4    8.1   16.6        19.1   18.5   37.6        49
Contingencies                   2.5    2.4    4. 9              ...L55   DAL
Total Cost, Paralimni and
Ayia Napa                      10.9   10.6   21.4       24.7   24.0   48.7         49
4.24         The proposed loans of US$ 32 million equivalent would finance an
estimated 31X of the cost of the Project: US$ 14.7 million for the Larnaca
components (27X of their total cost); and US$ 11.3 million and 6.0 million
(36X and 34X of total costs), respectively, for Paralimni and Ayia Napa. The
balance of the Project's cost, estimated at US$ 71.3 million ($39.9m, $19.8m,
and $11.6m, for the three sewerage boards, respectively), would be financed by
loans from the Council of Europe Resettlement Fund (CERF), funds from the
Government for costs of the tertiary treatment and effluent distribution, and



18 -
from charges to customers. The proposed project financing sources and amounts
are summarized ln Table 4.5 below.
Table 4.5: ProA Financin9 Plan
(USS millions)
Percent
n        Paralin    Aia Ina    gu     f total
IND loans          14.7       11.3       6.0      32.0    31.0
CERF financing      17.5      9.5        5.0      32.0    31.0
boenmmnt            9.3        7.3       5.0      21.6    20.9
Smrage boaras      13. 3            0                     -a 
Total              97         31.1      1          W.3   10.0
L. Project I      aoleentation
4.25     The Larnaca comDonent:  The Larnaca Sewerage and Drainage Board
(LSDB) (para. 5.01) will be responsible for the construction, operation, and
maintenance of the sewerage system (including sewers and the sewage treatment
plant), the effluent re-use system, and the drainage scheme. Project
implementation will be directly under the control of the Engineer of LSDB who
will be an experienced engineer. However, revision and updating of the
previous detailed design and day-to-day construction supervision of the
project works will be the responsibility of consultants. During
implementation, the consultants will carry out (i) tender evaluation; (ii)
review of contractors' drawings, verification of equipment and materials
quality for approval by LSDB; and (iii) construction supervision of civil
works, equipment and materials supply, installation, training, testing and
commissioning.
4.26     The AyLa NAta/Paralimni comRonents:  The "joint venture" will be
formed by the Ayia Napa Sewerage 3oard and the Paralimni Sewerage Board and
will be a legal entity represented by a committee consisting of members of
both ANSB and PSB, and chaired by the District Officer of Famagusta. The
joint venture will have day-to-day responsibility for the construction,
operation and maintenance of: (i) the sewerage networks in the Ayia Napa and
Paralimni areas; (ii) the common sewage treatment plant; and (iii) the
effluent reservoir and distribution system. Detailed design and construction
supervision will be the responsibility of consultants.
4.27     Although LSDB, PSB, and ANSB have not yet implemented any major
sewerage works, experience in Nicosia, Famagusta, and Limassol shows that the
Sewerage Boards in Cyprus have no difficulty in recruiting qualified staff,
and that they are quite capable of executing projects of this kind, with the
assistance of experienced consultants. No major delays are expected, and the
implementation period will be from 1992 to 1998, plus a one year guarantee
period (Annex 5). Detailed Critical Path Method (CPM) networks will be
prepared by respective contractors. A project monitoring and reporting
system, including performance indicators (Annex 6) and progress on staffing,
billing, etc. (paras. 4.20, 5.04, and 5.09), was agreed during negotiations
(para. 8.01-d).



I.  -LQma~19-
4.28     Proposed contracts and their respective cost estimates are presented
in Annex 7. All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan
proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement of Equipment. Cypriot manufacturers competing under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15X
of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt
importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove that the value added to
the product in Cyprus exceeds 20X ef ex-factory bid price. Contracts for
equipment and materials below US$ 200,000 will be procured through prudent
shopping based on at least three price quotations. The aggregate value of
these contracts will not exceed $ 2 million.
4.29     All bidding packages for equipment and materials estimated to cost $
500,000 equivalent or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation. Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review
after contract award. These limits would result in prior review of contracts
representing about 94 X of the loan. Consulting services to be financed from
the loan proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. Contracts not covered by prior review procedures
will be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract award.
4.30     The Larnaca Component.  It is anticipated that there will be four ICB
contracts for works and equipment for the Larnaca Component. These contracts
will include civil works and the supply of equipment and materials, including
pipes. The sewage treatment plant, storage reservoir, filters and effluent
pumping station will constitute one supply and installation contract; and
there will be three contracts, each of which will include sewerage, drainage,
and effluent distribution networks, in three areas of Larnaca. Contracts to
be procured through other procedures relate to operation and maintenance
equipment, engineering services, and technical assistance services.
4.31     The Ayia NaRa/Paralimni Component.  For the Ayia Napa/Paralimni
component, it is anticipated that there will be six contracts for works and
equipment and one contract for the provision of pipes, for which procurement
will be according to ICB procedures. As in Larnaca, there will be one supply
and installation contract for the sewage treatment plant, storage reservoir
and filters. There will be two contracts for pumping stations (one each for
Paralimni and Ayia Napa stations); two contracts for sewer and irrigation
works in the Paralimni areas; and one contract for the sewer and irrigation
works in Ayia Napa. The remaining contracts are for operations and
maintenance equipment, engineering services, and technical assistance.



20 -
Table 4.6: Prccurement Arrangements
(OUS millions)
Procurement Method
ITal
Sewerage and Drainage
Civil Works                  94.1                --            94.1
(26.9)a                          (26.9)
Goods                                            0.9            0.9
(0.5)          (0.5)
Land Acauisition                                   2.0            2.0
Technical Services
and Trainig                     --                   b           0.9
(0.9)          (0.9)
Consulting Engineering
ama. iJ                        --                5.4b           5.4
(3.7)          (3.7)
Ttal Project              94.1                9.2          103.3
(26.9)             (5.1)         (32.0)
'Amounts in parentheses are to be financed by the Bank
bAccording to Bank Guidelines for the Usa of Consultants
4.32     It is anticipated that most of the ; pe materials and all of the
electrical and mechanical equipment will be supplied by foreign manufacturers,
and that contracts for the pumping stations an( associated pipelines, and
sewage treatment plant would be awarded either :o foreign contractors or to
joint-ventures of foreign and local contractors. It is expected that the
contracts for laterals and main sewers and drainage works would be awarded to
local contractors who are competent. Operational equipment would be supplied
by foreign manufacturers through local agents; local agents will not be
mandatory, however. Some retroactive financing for engineering and technical
assistance, in amounts up to US$ 0.6, 0.45, and 0.5 million (a total of
US$1.5 million), may be required for LSDB, PSB, and ANSB, respectively.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that procurement will be carried
out according to Bank guidelines (para. 8.01-e).
f



21 -
M.  Disbursesnts
4.33     The proposed Bank loans totalling US$ 32.0 million equivalent would
be disbursed against normal documentation as follows:
(a)   24X of expenditures for civil works for LSDB;
30X of expenditures for civil works for PSB; and
311 of expenditures for civil works for ANSB.
(b)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local
expenditures, ex-factory, and 80X of local expenditures for
other items procured locally, for goods; and
(c)   100 percent for consultants and training.
4.34     Disbursements would be against Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for
eligible expenditures under the contracts valued at US$ 200,000 equivalent or
less. Supporting documentation for these would be retained by the Sewerage
Boards for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit reports
for the year in which the last disbursement was made. Documentation would be
made available to the auditors and Bank staff upon request. The annual audits
of the project accounts would include a separate opinion on the disbursements
made under the SOE procedure. All other disbursements would be made against
normal documentation submitted to the Bank.
4.35     In order to expedite project execution, Special Accounts for LSDB,
ANSB, and PSB would be opened at the Central Bank of Cyprus (or any commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank) with authorized allocations of US$ 1,000,000;
$800,000; and $500,000 respectively, representing about four months of
estimated expenditures. The documentation of replenishment requests would
follow the same procedures as in para. 4.34.
4.36     Estimated schedules of disbursements are given in Annex 8.  The
schedules are consistent with the Bank's historical disbursement profile for
Cyprus. The closing date for all three loans would be June 30, 1999.
0. Prolect SuDervision
4.37     Progress toward meeting project objectives would be monitored through
regular supervision missions that would be undertaken twice yearly.
Supervision would be aided by the Sewerage Boards' documentation of progress
in their reports to the Bank, which would be submitted twice yearly. The
Boards would also submit an annual report which will contain full information
on the monitoring indicators outlined in Annex 6 (para. 4.27).



- 22 -
V. THE BORRuWERS
A.  Intrcti
5.01     The Larnaca Sewerage and Drainage Board (LSDB), whose members were
appointed by the Council of Ministers Decision 25.795, dated May 16, 1985,
would be the borrower for the Larnaca component. Project preparation in the
Ayia Napa and Paralimni has been handled by the Ayia Napa Improvement Board
and Paralimni Municipality to date; however, sewerage boards have recently
been created for both communities. The Ayia Napa Sewerage Board (ANSB) and
the Paralimni Sewerage Board (PSB) will be borrowers for the Ayia Napa and
Paralioni components, respectively. The Republic of Cyprus would be the
guarantor for all three loans. The 1971 Law and subsequent legislation
covering the creation of sewerage boards is broad and comprehensive, and
provides the Council of Ministers with the authority to: (a) establish
sewerage and drainage boards, define the area in which those boards are to
operate, and nominate members of the board to represent the interests of non-
municipal areas included in the board's operating area; and (b) approve the
sewerage boards' annual budgets and investment programs, and their proposed
schedule of rates, charges and fees. The Law also, among other things: (a)
provides that boards are to be financially autonomous corporate entities; (b)
gives boards rights-of-way and power to compulsorily acquire property; (c)
establishes record keeping and auditing requirements; and (d) provides for the
collection of unpaid rates or charges through the Comptroller of Inland
Revenue. The sewerage boards are autonomous agencies, empowered to set their
own financial objectives. On the basis of their legal, financial and
operational environment, and previous Bank experience with similar boards (in
Nicosia and Limassol), LSDB, PSB, and ANSB are considered competent borrowers.
B. Organization and Management
5.02     Project preparation work in Larnaca has been carried out under the
control of LSDB's Chairman and Larnaca's municipal staff. LSDB has recently
appointed an accountant and an engineer; and PSB and ANSB are expected to
appoint an accountant and an engineer by mid October, 1991. An outline
organizational chart, along the lines indicated in Annex 9, was discussed with
the Boards and a schedule for the appointment of critical staff was agreed
during negotiations (para. 8.01-b). Agreement was also reached with the
Government and with PSB and ANSB that they will enter into legal arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the construction, operation, and ownership of
the project facilities. Advice on staffing and long-term development of the
Sewerage Boards will be obtained through the technical assistance to be
provided (para. 4.20), and will be discussed with the Bank. While final
authority for all decisions rests with the Boards, the engineers would be
responsible for physical development of the sewerage and drainage systems
(including the project works) and operation and maintenance, and the chief
accountant/administrators would be responsible for financial, accounting and
administrative matters including development of accounting procedures.



23 -
C.     ff ir  and Trainins
5.03     The technical staff of the Sewerage Boards would receive training by
the oonsultants during project implementation. The treactment plant
superintendents and their assistants would be hired in sufficient time to
provide 3-6 months practical training abroad in management and process
operation of similar treatment plants, and these staff would also be given
three months training in Cyprus by the treatment plant equipment suppliers.
In addition, the chemists would be provided with three months training abroad
in system technology, sampling and laboratory testing. Other technical staff,
i.e., mechanies, electricians, and foremen for the sewerage systems and
pumping station operators, would be trained locally by suppliers of the
equipment and through arrangements with local Sewerage Boards.
5.04     Administrative and accounting staff would be added as required.
Qualified staff are available in Cyprus, and would be under the direct
supervision of the chief accountant/administrators, thus not requiring
consultant services. Progress on staffing and training will be reported to
the Bank as part of the project monitoring system (para. 4.27).
D. Accounting and Auditina
5.05     As provided for in the Sewerage and Drainage Act of 1971, the three
Boards are required to adopt acceptable procedures for their annual budgets.
They plan to follow procedures similar to those curiently applicable to the
Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus (SBLA). The budgets, which include both
recurrent and capital expenditure will consist of a projected income
statement, a statement of sources and applications of funds, and a statement
of capital expenditures; they are subject to approval by the Council of
Ministers (CM) (pars. 5.01).  She budgeting cycle starts in September of each
year and the CM approval is usually granted prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year, which runs from January 1 to December 31.
5.06     The three boards will develop their own accounting systems, which
will be tailored after systems that are currently used by the Nicosia and
Limassol-Amathus Sewerage Boards. The system will be based on accrual
accounting principles and capable of generating the usual public utilities
financial statements. Procedures would be computerized as part of the effort
to be undertaken for the billing (para. 5.09). The Boards' accounting staff
will complete and implement the accounting systems; the systems will be ready
for recording the sewerage boards' activities as from January l192.
5.07     Annual audits of the sewerage Boards' accounts are required by the
Sewerage and Drainage Law of 1971, and are to be carried out by the Auditor
General of the Republic, and this is acceptable to the Bank. Agreements were
reached with the three Boards during negotiations, that, beginning with fiscal
year 1992, their financial statements would be audited by an independent
auditor satisfactory to the Bank, and that such statements and the audit
report, including the audits of the Statement of Expenditures and the Special
Account, would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each
fiscal year (para 8.03-e).



- 24 -
5.  l Sllng and Collection
5.08     The sewerage Boards should start billing and collecting revenues from
beneficiaries during the first year of construction, i.e., 1992 (para. 6.02).
Collection of revenues from sewer rates to be levied on the assessed values of
properties will be undertaken by the Boards, following procedures to be
prepared along the lines of those currently applied by the Sewerage Board of
Limsasol-Amathus. The list of properties and ownerships in the project and
the general benefit areas are being prepared, and will be handed over by the
Lands and Surveys Department (LSD) to the Boards in time for billing by early
1992. LSD is expected to make the complete data on the project areas and
general benefit areas available to the sewerage Boards by October 1991. LSDB,
assisted by the municipality, will acquire its own computer facilities for
billing and collection. PSB and ANSB will make the necessary arrangements for
either acquiring computer facilities for billing and collection, or through
contracting out these services.
5.09     Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as a condition of
effectiveness, the sewerage boards will make satisfactory arrangements and
procedures for billing and collecting their revenues from sewer rates, i.e.,
(i) the Boards have obtained sufficient data on ownerships and value
assessments to enable them to start billing their customers; (ii) the Boards
have entered into arrangements with LSD for the future updating of these data;
and (iii) the Boards have completed arrangements for billing, including
acquiring the services or facilities for issuing customer bills and collecting
revenues (para. 8.03-a). Revenues from a water surcharge on water consumption
will be billed and collected through the water authorities operating in the
project areas (i.e. through the Water Board in Larnaca, the Municipality of
Paralimni and the Improvement Board of Ayia Napa), but this activity will not
start before 1996, when the first groups of customers are connected to the
sewerage system. Similar arrangements will also be established for billing
and collecting revenues for sale of irrigation water. Agreement was also
reached with the Sewerage Boards that the necessary arrangements for billing
both the water surcharge and the water irrigation charge will be completed as
soon as feasible, but by not later than December 31, 1994 (paras. 6.05, and
8.03-g).
5.10     The Sewerage and Drainage Act of 1971, (as amended in 1972 and 1978)
entitles the sewerage boards to request the authorization of the Council of
Ministers to collect bills overdue by more than six months through the
Department of Inland Revenues. It also authorizes the sewerage boards to levy
a 20X late payment penalty.



25 -
VI. FIANCE
A.   at Perfomco and Present Position
6.01     Since its establishment in 1985, LSDB has not undertaken any
operational responsibilities, and has only been involved with project
preparation, with the assistance of the municipal staff. Funds for project
preparation have been provided by loans from the Government in anticipation of
the boards' own revenues from operations. All these loans including funds for
project expenditure in 1991 (land acquisition) are being consolidated under a
single Government loan. The two other boards, PSB and ANSB, were established
recently (April, 1991), and financing of the preparation of their projects was
provided by the respective municipality and local community.
B. Rate Structure and Revenues
6.02     The Sewerage and Drainage Act of 1971 (para. 5.01) authorizes the
sewerage boards to establish their rates in accordance with specified
requirements for financial viability. According to the Act, the rates should
be approved in time for billing the beneficiaries starting in the first year
of project construction. The rates should cover all costs of operations and
maintenance, the higher amount of debt service or depreciation, and adequate
working capital. In addition, they should provide for financing part of the
investments. The Boards' rate structures would consist of: (i) sewer rates
levied as percentage of the property value assessments in the project and
general benefit areas; (ii) sewerage surcharges on water consumption, levied
per cubic meter of water consumed by customers connected to the sewerage
system; and (iii) charge for irrigation water resulting from the reuse of
treated effluent. This rate structure is broadly similar to those applicable
in Nicosia and Limassol. It is appropriate for this type of operation as
provided for under the Sewerage and Drainage Act; it is simple and
straightforward in terms of public understanding and administration, and for
the purposes of future adjustments.
6.03     The sewer rates will be composed of differential rates for: (i) the
properties located in the project area vis-&-vis those located in the general
benefit area (in the case of Larnaca); and (ii) different types of property
usage -- i.e. household and other types of properties, as disti9ct from hotels
and hotel apartments used for tourism purposes, whereby those businesses will
be charged a higher rate as is the case in the Limassol-Amathus area. The
rates, which will be applicable in 1992, were approved by the Boards in June,
1991: LSDB has approved a differentiated rate structure; PSB and ANSB have
approved average rates, while the levels of differentiation are being
determined. The rates have to be ratified subsequently by the Council of
Ministers and the House of Representatives before they can be applied by the
Sewerage Boards. Agreement was reached during negotiations with the
Government and the Sewerage Boards that the rate approval by the Guarantor
would be a condition of effectiveness of the respective loans (para. 8.03-b).



- 26 -
6.04     The differential rate structure which was approved by LSDB for
implementation in 1992 is composed of the following rates:
for proger tes in the nroject area:
Hotels and hotel apartmentsCC 7.77 ($17.64) per CC 1,000    of
property value
All other properties CC 2.37 ($5.38) per CC 1,000
of property value
f2r oromrtias in the ganeral benefit area:
All proporties CC 0.70 ($1.59) per CC 1,000
of property value.
The average sewer rates approved by the other two Boards are as follows:-
P-ralimni: CC 4.15 (US$ 9.42) per CC 1,000 of property value
Ayia Una: CE 2.50 (US$ 5.68) per C£ 1,000 of property value
6.05     The value assessments of the properties located in the projects'
areas and in the general benefit area (in the case of Larnaca) were undertaken
by the Land and Survey Department (LSD) over a six year period (1980-86).
They are given in the equivalent of 1980 market value prices. However, these
value assessments. which were used for calculating the rates applicable in
1992, do not adequately reflect the actual conditions and configurations of
the properties because of the high growth of tourism construction in the
project areas since 1986. A sample survey in the Paralimni and Ayia Napa
areas was undertaken in March 1991 by the LSD and the Statistics Department of
the HOF. The survey indicated that, based on a revaluation of a
representative sample of properties, whose construction was still not
completed when the valuation took place in 1986, the total valuation of
properties (in 1980 prices) in Paralimni and Ayia Napa should have risen by
about 8 percent and 7 percent per annum, respectively. Since the sewer rates
are calculated as a percentage of this valuation assessment, it is important,
primarily for reasons of equity, to update the valuation as soon as possible.
This exercise becomes more imperative as a differential rate structure,
implying higher rates for hotels, is to be applied. During negotiations,
agreements were reached with the Government that: (i) a full update of the
valuation of the propertios, taking into account new construction in the
project areas in Larnaca, Paralimni and Ayia Napa and in the general benefit
area in Larnaca, will be completed by not later than June 30, 1993, which
would be in time for the next projected adjustments of the sewer rates
(expectod in 1994) (par&. 8.02-a); and (ii) these valuations will be updated
continuously as required for the purposes of adjusting the sewer rates.
6.06     Sewerage surcharge and irrigation charges.  The sewerage surcharge on
water consumption, will be applicable in 1995/1996, when customers are first
projected to be connected to the new system. The rate is currently estimated
at about CC 0.17 (US$ 0.38) per cubic meter of consumed water. In addition,
the treated effluent, which will be available at around the same time, will be



27
sold for irrigation of parks and hotel grounds at a fee to be determined on
the basi of market conditions and prices of alternative sources. Rate. are
projected at about ER 0.20 (US$ 0.45) per cubic moter (in 1996) on the basis
of current of water tariffs. Detailed methods for charging for the irrigation
water, as well an for the sewerage surcharge, will be developed during project
execution. The effluent rouse schoem which La entLrely financed by the
overrnent will remin the property of the Government, but will be operated
and maintained as an integral part of the assets operated by the respective
boards. Accordingly, matters relating to the operation and maintenance of
these schemes, to the uses of the water, and to the establishment of rates for
sale of the Irrigation water within the Boards' areas will be agreed upon by
the Governret and the respective Boards In consultation with the Bank.
Agreements were reached during negotiations that the Government will enter
Into agroemnt with the Borrowers for operation and maintenance of the
effluent reuse schemes, for the eatablishment of rates, and for arranging for
the charges to be borne by each party in connection wLth this operation (para.
8.02-c).
6.07     Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(i)   the rate structures of the respective Boards will be amended, as
appropriate for meeting the Sewerage Boards' financial objectives
(para. 6.14), by not later than one year before customers are
connected to the system, to include (in addition to the sewer
rates): (a) a sewerage surcharge on water consumption of those
customers, and (b) a fee for sale of irrigation water, as to be
agreed under the arrangements described in para. 6.06 above;
(ii)  the Sewerage Boards will submit their new rate structure as per
(i) above to the Bank by June 30, 1994 for review; and
(iii) the Sewerage Boards will adopt these new structures by December
31, 1994, or not later than six months before starting to bill the
surcharge and irrigation charges to customers (para. 8.01-h).
C. Financine Plan
6.08     Dotailed forecasts of the sources and application of funds for the
period 1991 - 2000 for LSDB, and for 1992.2000 for PSB and ANSB, are given in
Annex 10 (Tables A10.2, A10.5 and A10.8). A summary of the financing plans
for each of the Boards in addition to a consolidated financing plan for the
project (1991-1998) in presented in Table 6.1. A summary financing plan for
the three Boards during the projection period (1991-2000) is given in Table
6.2.



28 -
Table .1: _s_ar Pinmiina Fl fao fteJect -Period
(1991-1995)
GaMLL .1    gL..LL .1  GLalJL .1  CZmlul, L  Lml~l,
lkwerage md Drainage Systems    20.0   761   10.5   661   5.5   631    36.0   61.7   712
Irrleat.ic 5ysat .eimf                                       m      -      =A     a
T~~~~~LD S otal
l.t CshGurtio                7.3_  281    3.6   221   1.   221    12.7    21.   251
toa l                        926   13.0    1    2.7   3i    14.       3 1
rF loan                        7.7 C  2l v  _.    27n   2.    251  1*.1   32.   261
TotaeFundst Rairements                           01 Li   ..21       ..L§    ..L    au
Total                   14.8   561    92   51   4.5   551    26.9   65.3   5710 
Surce ota FurLs:
Csh Oeoratiof fundsi         by the Boardsg51v 7r2  mt 3 8   43n 24c3 54g7 47X
Loss: Debt Sorvice           6.0   V23   3.6   2u   Li   Au    A1.6   2E1 
ot Cthee Genlration  7t3   28a    3.6   22S    1.8   22w     12.7  2a.6 21X
Boarrowing
pIer Lo ofs                   6.5   25t    5.0   31r   2.7   30b    14.2   32.0 2lX
CMR Loma                      7.7   29X    4.2   271   2.2   25X    14.1   32.0   28X
3ov*rnmrnt  0S .6  __L    0.0    0XU    Q                     _S     O.8    1.3   -a
Total               14.8   56S    9.2   58x   4.5   55X   28.9    65.3   57X
favrromtnt                  )ant-The Convi  of ntEu 161ope    _et mn  Fun            inE21 )
i otal mourese  abou  2pre           16o0 rqie e.9  The Bord           115i 5 ntra
c.09     The pronect  financing plan consists of about 25 percent (after debt
service) of funds internally generated by the Boards; the goverment financing
of the effluent treatment works and irrigation systems will represent about 19
percent of total funds requirements. The remainder will be financed by loans
from the Bank (28 percent), and the Council of Europe Resettlement Fund (CERF)
which also meet about 28 percent of total requirements. The Boards' internal
cash generation is expected to grow to about 29 percent during the pro,jection
period (Table 6.2). During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Governsent that it would provide the necessary funds for the construction of
the effluent re-use schemes (tertiary treatment works, and effluent storage
and distribution systems) to be constructed under the project (para. 8.02-b).
Agreements were also reached with the respective Boards, that completion of
satisfactory arrangements for the CERF financing will be a condition of
effectiveness (paras. 8.03-d).
V For both project and non-project related expenditures.
Al Project preparation advance already received from Government and now part
of Sewerage boards' contribution to Project financing.



- 29 -
?&VW 6.a2:  &i6z   Rona        the _.
(1991-2000)
|_ _:~~~~~~~~__V _PS                                   n
GLgIL  ..L   cLL mil.1  GLMLLL J1   GLmLL  MAULL J1
hrejeet lnveOetmt.
sworoe *od Drainage systm     20.0   71x    10.5   612   5.5   562   36.0    61.7    66
Xriatiamon Syt.w               4.1   152    3.2   10t   2.2   22X    9.5    21.6    162
OCKer IuIVetnnts              _.0          .X _3    7    Li   11i   J4         JJ _5
Total                 25.1   901    15.0   871   6.6   892   46.9   110.6    902
Jesro Jo in workin Capital     -Li   1Q    -Z_Z   131  Li    a1   -Li    1LL3   1i
Total Vnds lequlrammnts    AILA 1OOX    17.   1O2S   LI   l2OX   S5.    MLd    lOOS
Sore  f PI%ds.
Cash bmofraticn by the Doards   19.4   692    11.4   66s   6.3   631   37.1    83.2    67X
Less: Debt Service            AI   3M      j      1X    Li  3ex      3l.  J       227. 
not Cash Generatioo             8.3   302    4.3   281   2.8   311   15.9    35.7    290
Borrowing
1U- Louse                      6.5   231     5.0   292   2.7   251   14.2    32.0    262
CURP Loans                     7.7   281    4.2   251   2.2   222   14.1    32.0    261
Other                          1-4  .J       0.O   -a   O.    _S   -.L    -.L          3S
Total                  15.6   561    3.2   542   4.9   471   29.7    67.1    55X
Goevrnmnt Long-Ten Investmnt    4.2   14S    32    121   Li 3           ...9.    ALAI   in1
Total Source s        IL    1221   I1.   lOO12    L    lO22    S12   13*.    1221
D. U tr e Performance
6.10     Annex 10 presents the details of the financial analysis of the three
Boards. Projected financial statements for the LSDB (1991 - 2000) and for the
PSB and ANSB (1992-2000) are given in tables A10.1 through A10.9 of the Annex;
the main assumptions underlying the projections are given in the same Annex
10. The financial performance of the Boards during the period 1992 and 2000
and beyond will be geared toward achieving self-financing ratio, after debt
service and increase in working capital (other than cash), of at least 20
percent of average annual investments (other than investments related to
irrigation) over three year intervals. During the project implementation
period (1992-98), LSDB would be able achieve an average self-financing ratio
of about 31 percent; PSB and ANSB will achieve averages of 27 and 25 percent,
respectively. However, in 1999 and 2000, these ratios are expected to be
higher (about 36 percent for LSDB and about 42 and 40 percent for PSB and
ANSB, respectively), enabling them to finance their future investments from
their own resources without incurring any new debt.



* 30 -
6.11     In order for the Boards to achieve the above mentioned targets of
inoresaed self-financing, the Boards would require periodic adjustments in the
revenues from sewer rates (and subsequently the sewerage surcharge and charges
for Irrigation water), over the projection period. L9DB would have an average
inoreae of about 12 percent between 1992 and 2000. A first increase of about
80 peront should be introduced by 1994 (from CC 2.50 to 4.50 per one thousand
pounds of property valu), assufiig, meanwhile that the property assessmnts
would grow by about 2 percent per annum to reflect the changes in their
physioal conditions aine 1986 (pars. 6.04). Average Increases for PIS and
AXIS would be about 7 and 8 percent per annum between 1992 and 2000, with the
first increases to be introduced In 1994 for PSB and ANSI, amounting to about
42 and 40 percent, respectively. Both Increases assume that the valuation
assessmnts are fully updated to reflect the changes in the conditions of the
properties as indicated by the revaluation of the sample survey undertaken in
1991 (para. 6.05),
6.12     Despite the fact that the projected increases in the rates represent
significant jumps, they are not expected to affect affordability, (para 7.12).
The introduction, and the subsequent adjustments, of a differentiated rate
structure (para. 6.03) would facilitate their implementation, and would
further improve their responsiveness to equity and economic objectives.
Future increases of total revenues over the projection period would range
between 21 and 31 percent per annum for the three Boards. By the end of the
projection period (the year 2000), revenues from sewer rates would constitute
i        between 46 to 73 percent of total revenues of the respective Boards.  The
operating ratios of the three Boards are expected to be at about 42 percent on
average in the year 2000. The unusually high margins of net income before
interest is justified by the high debt service, in addition to projected
surplus for financing investments. With time, it would allow the respective
Boards to build additional cash reserves for self-financing subsequent
investments.
6.13     The proposed financing plan for each of the three Boards, wherein
about 55 percent of the full construction cost consists of borrowed funds,
means a heavy debt load for the Boards. However, their debt equity ratio
would reach a level of about 35 percent on average in the year 2000, as the
Boards build up their equity. The Boards' funds would provide debt service
coverage averaging about 1.4 beyond 1996. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Boards would not, during the project implementation
period, contract any medium or long-term debt (other than for financing
obligations under this project), unless their net revenuesV for the fiscal
year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-
month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater amount,
shall not be less than 1.2 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year (para. 8.01-i). The preceding assurances, together
with the financial covenant proposed below in para. 6.14, should ensure that
the Boards would have sufficient funds to meet their annual investment
requirements.
U the difference between (i) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations and net non-operating income and (ii) the sum of all expenses
related to operations, excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash
operating charges and interest and other charges on debt.



* 31 -
6.14     During negotiations, agreements were reached that, beginning in FY
1992, LSDB, PSB, and ANSB, would implement rates and other charges to provids
adequate funds to cover: (a) all expenses of operations, maintenance,
administration and other taxes and contributions required by law, and
depreciation; (b) all interest and other charges on debt as well as principal
repayments in excess of depreciation; (c) increases required to maintain
adequate levels of working capital (other than cash); and (d) at least 20X of
each year's annual investment (excluding investments for effluent reuse
scheoes) determined as the average of investment over the subject year and two
subsequent years (para. 8.01-J). This financial discipline would be monitored
through annual reviews. Agreements were also reached that LSDB, PSB and ANSB,
will, six months before the beginning of each fiscal year, provide the Bank
with a copy of their proposed budget for such fiscal year and financial
projections for the following two years, as well as its plans for proposed
rates and charges for the Bank's review and comments (para. 8.01-k).
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
7.01     The Larnaca and Ayia Napa/Paralimni areas are estimated to generate
about CC 250 million (over US$ 550 million) per year in tourism revenues, i.e.
more than 5 times the total cost of the project. A large proportion of
employment in the areas is in activities directly related to tourism; i.e., in
hotels, rental apartments, restaurants, etc., and in tourism-related
activities such as taxi services, gift shops, and beverage production, etc.
This is particularly true in Paralimni and Ayia Napa, where tourism is the
main economic activity. Hence the proposed project, that will protect the
tourism industry in the two areas, is of critical importance to their
economies, as well as to the economy of Cyprus.
7.02     The present system of sewage disposal using private septic tanks and
absorption pits for domestic sewage, and some biological treatment for tourist
hotels and industry, is inadequate. In densely developed areas, the problem
is particularly acute. Also, the present methods and processes for treatment
and disposal of human and commercial liquid wastes are costly, in terms of
both the frequent emptyings required and the limiting effect on future growth.
Even now, the present arrangements produce nuisance odors and constitute a
health hazard. An outbreak of disease from sewage contaminated bathing waters
would have a disastrous effect on the tourist industry. The only permanent
solution to this problem is to install central collection and sewage treatment
systems.
7.03     Benefits attributable to the proposed sewerage and effluent re-use
systems are in six principal areas: (i) savings in operational cost of the
existing sewage disposal arrangements, and in the cost of constructing and
operating additional individual waste disposal units in the future; (ii)
benefits attributable to the availability of less costly water for irrigation
in the project area (para 7.04 below); (iii) increases in property values due
to the improved sewerage and drainage systems; (iv) reduced risks to human



* 32 -
health due to waste-water related diseases; (v) an improvement in air quality
from the elimination of odors from overflowing septic tanks and the regular
emptying process; and (vi) protection of the tourist industry in the two
project areas, a major source of foreign exchange earnings and employment.
Benefits from the drainage works include reductions in productivity losses and
damage to property, including roads, due to flooding.
7.04     The treated effluent from the sewage treatment plants in both project
areas will be produced at a lower average incremental cost than water from the
Southern Conveyor system.W Water from the SCP was estimated to cost C£O.31
per cubic moeter in 1987; in 1990 prices this would be about C£0.35; whereas
the comparable cost for treated effluent from the Larnaca scheme is estimated
at C£0.26, about 741 of the SCP cost (Table A11.4 in Annex 11). A discount
rate of 9X was used in both cases.
B. Environmental Impact
7.05     The proposed project was placed in environmental screening category
A/D. Rating A reflects the project's significant environmental impact,
thereby requiring an Environmental Assessment (EA), and D denotes that
environmental objectives were a major focus of project preparation. In this
case, the fragility of Cyprus' environment, given the country's small size and
geographical constraints, and the importance of the tourism industry to the
economy of the island makes the protection of the environment particularly
critical. Moreover, the sensitive nature of environmental issues relating to
the location of the sewage treatment plant in the first Limassol project had
caused public opposition which was largely responsible for serious
implementation problems (para. 2.11). It was, therefore, felt to be necessary
to encourage public participation in this project, particularly in decisions
on method of treatment, re-use and disposal, and the siting of treatment
plants, especially in view of the importance attached by the Government and
the Bank to such a process. Accordingly, detailed environmental assessments
were carried out by international consultants, on behalf of the Borrowers, for
the Larnaca and the Ayia Napa/Paralimni components, respectively, in
accordance with Operation Directive 4.00, Annex A.
7.06     The assessments were carried out in accordance with the terms of
reference, process and schedule agreed by the Bank. As part of the EA
process, public meetings/hearings with envircnmental non-governmental
organizations (NG0), intergovernmental agencies, and local community
representatives were held during EA preparation, and their outcome has been
incorporated in the EA reports. The environmental assessments analyzed the
various alternatives of the different project components (including the "no
project" alternative), identified the most desirable environmental options and
examined a wide range of possible environmental impacts, and recommended
certain measures for their elimination or mitigation. They generally conclude
that the proposed project will have positive environmental impacts in that it
IW Water from the SCP will not be sufficient, however, to support the
projected increases in tourism in the area; and investment in desalination
facilities will eventually be necessary. Water produced in this manner is
likely to have an average cost of at least C£0.50.



- 33
will prevent groundwater and coastal pollution and will promote water
conservation and development of green space through wastewater rouse.
7.07     The most important impact identified by the environmental assessments
was the threat to an ecologically important halophytic (salt-loving) community
by the proposed site of the effluent storage reservoir for the Larnaca scheme.
As a result, it was agreed during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations
that the reservoir would be relocated south east of the treatment plant to a
site which poses no threat to the halophytic community. The new site lo under
Government control and will be at the disposal of LSDB under a long-term
lease. Other possible detrimental impacts are largely related to risk and
safety considerations in connection with system breakdown. These aspects will
be incorporated in the project's final design and construction contracts.
During negotiations, an environmental mitigation and monitoring plan was
finalized and agreed with the Borrowers (para. 8.01-1). The main elements of
the plan will include (i) measures to reduce disturbance to wildlife and
natural habitats, and to prevent damage to antiquities, during construction;
(li) procedures to reduce nuisances and avoid accidents during operation; and
(iii) monitoring of effluent quality, both at the STP and at distribution
points. The findings, recommendations, and mitigation and monitoring plan of
the EA are smmarized in more detail in Annex 2.
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.08     Economic rates of return (ERR) are calculated only for the sewerage
and effluent re-use systems to be implemented under the project. It is not
feasible to obtain the data needed for an economic analysis of the proposed
drainage works for Larnaca (representing about 6X of total project costs);
i.e. on the value of lost production caused by the intermittent flooding which
impedes road transport for varying lengths of time over the winter season, and
on property and road damage. Although the proposed project is essential to
the continuation and expansion of tourism in the area, it is not possible to
attribute the tourism benefits directly to the project, since there are
additional constraints to tourism development (para. 2.04). The health and
air quality benefits of the project, and the visual and other benefits
attributable to the expansion of "green areas", although important, are also
non-quantifiable. Calculations for the ERRs for both the Larnaca and Ayia
Napa/Paralimni schemes are given in Annex 11.
7.09     For the Larnaca sewerage and effluent re-use scheme, revenues
attributable to the project are used as a proxy for consumers' willingness to
pay in quantifying the benefits for the estimated rates of return. The
revenue streams are based on projected sewer rates and sewerage surcharge on
water consumption1I. Revenues from the sale of treated effluent are also
estimated fairly conservatively, and included as a benefit stream. Cost
streams include the costs (including physical contingencies) of land, civil
works and equipment, design and supervision, and operation and maintenance, as
well as the connection costs to be incurred by private property owners.
Details of the assumptions are given in Annex 11. Because of the exclusion of
ilU The use of rates and charges as a proxy for willingness-to-pay is iliscussed
in Annex 11.



- 34
the substantial unquantified benefits of property value increases and
additional tourist revenues, the resulting economic rate of return, 13.62 is
considered to be a very conservative estimate. The rate of return decreases
to about 102 with either a 10 increase in costs or a one-year delay ln
revenues.
7.10     The economic rate of return for the Paralimni and Ayia Napa sewerage
and effluent re-use schem is based on a comparison of the "with* and "without
project* situations. This comparison is discussed further in Annex 3. In the
absence of the centralized sewerage system to be provided under the project,
the two communities would continue to depend on individual sewage treatment
plants, to accomodate the rapid tourism growth, and residents and temporary
workers would continue to have to depend on septic tanks.  The benefit streams
are the cost savings, i.e., the stream of costs attributable to continuing the
wwithout project" arrangements. These are based on the number of new package
treatment plants and septic tanks needed, the operation and maintenance costs,
the rehabilitation costs for the package plants, and the costs of expanding
the ponds to receive the sewage and septage. Again, revenues from the sale of
treated effluent are conservatively estimated, and added as a benefit stream.
The costs of the sewerage and effluent re-use scheme are calculated in the
saoe manner as for Larnaca. The estimated ERR for the scheme is 17.72. Since
the ERR for this component is particularly sensitive to the speed of tourism
growth, it was also estimated using for a scenario of lower growth in the
number of tourism beds (4.52 p.a. instead of 82 used in the base case
scenario). This reduced the ERR to 8.7%.
C. Affordgbillvz
7.11     The projected sewer rates and sewerage surcharge on water consumption
are not expected to impose an unreasonable burden on households in the three
project areas. Sewer rates are to be based on property values as assessed in
1980 prices. The average household income for 1990 in the Larnaca urban area
is estimated to be CE 7,625. Based on an average assessed value for a house
of C£ 15,000, and assuming average water consumption of 150 liters per head
per day (3.4 persons per household), the total bill for water, sewerage, and
drainage would amount to 1.92 of average household income in 1994 (the first
year of operation), increasing to about 22 in 1998. For low-income
households, with lower property values and lower water consumption, the
proportion of income would also be 1.92 in 1994, increasing to 2.12 in 1998.
These proportions are well below 42, and therefore within the generally
accepted 'affordable" levels.
7.12     In Paralimni, the projected sewer rate is somewhat higher than in
Larnaca; however, incomes are also estimated to be higher due to the very
rapid tourism growth in the Ayia Napa/Paralimni area. The Department of
Statistics estimates that incomes in the area are in the order of CC 9,000 for
1990.  Using conservative estimates (i.e., relatively high property values of
C£ 25,000 for the average house, and average incomes at CC 8,000), the
combined outlay for water and sewerage would constitute about 32 of income in
1994, and about 3.42 in 1998.  Again, these are within affordable limits.  The
sewei rates for Ayia Napa are projected to be lower than in Paralimni, and
with similar property values, water consumption and water tariffs, ability to
pay for water and sewerage is not expected to be a problem in Ayia Napa.



- 35
K.  Riksan  Sfeuad
7.13     The main risk relates to the willingness of the beneficiaries to pay
for the project costs. This risk will be minimized through the use of a rate
structuro that is affordable to the lowest income groups, possibly
incorporating som differentials, and through approval of adequate tariffs
before project effectiveness. The risk of inadequate institutional
development of the project implementing agencies will be minimized through
agre esnts on staffing levels, and by the provision of tochnical assistance
and training under the project.
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND UCOENDATIONS
8.01     The following agreements were reached with the Borrowers during
negotiations: -
(a)   The project objectives, description, cost estimates, and financing
plan will be as agreed with the Bank (paras. 4.04, 4.09-4.19,
4.22-4.24).
(b)   The Borrowers will recruit staff in a timely manner in line with
an agreed organization chart (paras. 4.20 and 5.02).
(c)   PSB and ANSB will enter into a joint venture agreement
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.26).
(d)   The Borrowers will adopt project monitoring and reporting systems
satisfactory to the Bank, including performance indicators and
progress on staffing, billing, etc. (para. 4.27).
(a)   Procurement will be in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans (para. 4.32).
(f)   The Borrowers' financial statements will be audited by an
independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank, oeginning with
fiscal year 1992, and such statements and the audit report,
including the audits of the Statements of Expenditures and the
Special Accounts, will be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (para. 5.07).
(g)   The Borrowers will complete the necessary arrangements for billing
and collecting the water surcharge and the irrigation charges as
soon as feasible, but by not later than December 31, 1994. (para.
5.09).
(h)   The Boards' rate structures will be amended as appropriate for
meeting the Borrowers' financial objec:ives, and this structure
will include (in addition to the sewer rates) (i) a surcharge to
be applied against water consumption by those customers, and (ii)



36 -
a fee for sale of irrigation water. The Borrowers will submit
these now rate structures for Bank review by June 30, 1994, and
will a&.pt this structure by December 31, 1994. (para. 6.07).
(i)   The Borrowers will not, during the project implementation period,
contract any medium or long-term debt (other than for carrying out
the project), unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
immediat;ely preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever Is
the greater, shall not be less than 1.2 times the maxi mum debt
servico requirements for any succeeding fiscal year (para. 6.13).
(j)   Beginning in FY 1992, the Boards will implement rates and other
charges to provide adequate funds to cover: (i) all expenses of
operations, maintenance, administration and taxes and other
contribution required by law, and depreciation; (ii) all interest
and other charges on debt as well as principal repayments in
excess of depreciation; (iii) all increases required to maintain
adequate levels of working capital; ard (iv) at least 20X of each
year's annual investment (excluding investments for the effluent
re-use scheme) determined as the average of investment over the
subject year and two subsequent years (para 6.14).
(Ik) The Borrowers will, six months before the beginning of each fiscal
year, provide the Bank with a copy of their proposed budgets for
such fiscal year and financial projections for the following two
years, as well as their plans for proposed rates and charges for
the Bank's review and comments (para. 6.14).
(1)   The Borrowers will implement environmental mitigation and
monitoring plans agreed with the Bank (para. 7.07)
8.02     The following agreements were reached with the Government during
negotiations:
(a)   A full update of the valuation of the properties located in the
project (and general benefit) areas in Larnaca, Paralimni and Ayia
Napa will be completed in time for the next adjustment of sewer
rates, but not later than June 30, 1993 (para. 6.05).
(b)   The Government will provide the necessary funds for the
construction of the effluent re-use systems to the respective
Boards (para. 6.09).
(c)   The Government will enter in agreement with the Borrowers,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the operation and maintenance by the
Borrower of the re-use facilities, and for the establishment and
collection of charges for the effluent (para. 6.06)
8.03     Conditions for Effectiveness:  The following have been set as
conditions for effectiveness of the  oan documents for the proposed loans:-



- 37 -
(a)   The sewerage boards will have made satisfactory arrangemnts and
procedures for billing and collecting their revenues from sever
rates (para. 5.08).
(b)   The Guarantor will have approved the sewerage boards' sever rates
(para. 6.03).
(c)   The Guarantor and the Borrowers will have entered into lease
agreements for the land required for the construction and
operation of the treatment plants and storage reservoirs.
(d)   The Borrowers will have made arrangements with the CERF, or other
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, for project financing.
(e)   The effectiveness of the loan agreement for the loan to PSB is
contingent on the effectiveness of the loan agreement for the loan
to ANSB, and yice versa
8.04     Some retroactive financing (up to US$ 1.5 million) for engineering
and technical assistance would be provided (para. 4.32).
8.05     With the agreements reached as outlined above, the proposed project
would be suitable for Bank loans totalling US$ 32 million equivalent (US$ 14.7
million to LSDB; US$ 11.3 million to PSB, and US$ 6.0 million to ANSB). Each
loan would be guaranteed by the Republic of Cyprus, with final maturity of 15
years, including a 5-year grace period, at the standard variable interest
rate.



Annx 1
-38 -                                      Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHAST  OAST SEERGEAND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Touaritur Trends in QUMru
Table Al.l:  TiUrist Arr1val. *nd Ov  rn10hts 1n Cyprus.
Tourist Arrivals         Overniahts 1n 1-S Star Hotals
-Hmu-   I r    rowth a.&.       Nu bw        I   ad *Ee . oa.
1974             150,47S                      740,143
1975             47.064                       247,739
1976             180,206                       78,867
1977             178,185                       98.79
1978            216,679                     1,047,070
1979            297,013      31.5           1,504,101        36.2
1980            353,375      17.4           1.723,222        13.6
1981            429,313      19.5           1,937,432        11.7
1982            548,180      24.4           2,001.259         3.2
1983            620,726      12.4           2,249,620        11.7
1984            736,972      17.2           2.631,800        15.7
1985            769.727       4.3           3.209,761        19.9
1986            827,937       7.3           3.319,254         3.4
1987            948.551      13.6           3,783.158        13.1
1988          1,111,818      15.9           4.894,342        25.8
1989          1,377,636      21.4           5,514.302        11.9
1990'          1,598,058      14.8
Estimate based on figures for Jan-Oot, 1990
Table A1.2:  Tourist Overniahts in 1-5 Star Hotels. by District
Larnaca              Famausta    2         Aal Crus3
1979          194,848               210.788              1,504,101
1980          233.961   18.2        263.019   22.0       1,732,222   14.1
1981          314,211   29.5        279,875    6.2       1,937,432   11.7
1982          310,387   -1.2        356,175   24.1       2,001,259    3.2
1983          380.536   20.4        482,815   30.4       2,249,620   11.7
1984          461,142   19.2        631,891   26.9       2,631,800   15.7
1985          553,370   18.2        936,212   39.3       3,209.761   19.9
1986          601,370    8.3        971.617    3.7       3,319,254    3.4
1987          598,688   -0.4    1,171,306   18.7         3.783.158   13.1
1988          763,987   24.4    1,415.038   18.9         4,894,342   25.8
1989          820,155    7.1    1,474,921    4.1         5,514.302   11.9
Includel most hotels in Paraliumi and Ayia Nspa
lIneludoa Papbo. and LLusaol Districts.



-39                                                        muexLI
Pap 2 of 2
Table A1.3:   Htol *el snd Deaunev lt.. ln 1-  3*., Natal.
Dflz^x  SJsL                    u    r  t    d
lifLMgg           All  cvDr-us              m u
151      6.0       6.1          55.6           1,66        1,541     10.654
Il1     416       U.0          47.7           1,6U        1,648     11t.66
18       47.1       We.6        476            1.s0ot      1,735     14,543
1664     46.1      6IC0         50.4           3,066       3,5U?     1S,144
18       46.8      67.6        U5  1           3,651       4.561    1.ll7
1666     46.0       65.1        5O 7           3566        4,741     16,5
1367     4.7       67.3         5.1            3.13        5.576     21, f557
1666     66.5      74.4         63.3           3,636       l,l10     18,305
1666     U.7       U  5         64.1           4,016       7.06      1l,110
Table A1A4 : rons R eojot fr  Tourip, Immart. O  Aar1   t               Manufactured Gooob
and Total Exports of o RMtig Excortn (Cc 11ll1ola
Exports of      Exports of       Total Exports
Agricultural     Manufactured      of Domestic
Iouris        Goods             Goods             Goods
1973            23.8          28.6             12.6              51.3
1977            23.8         38.2              62.2             109.5
1979            50.1         36.6              82.3             127.6
1980            71.7         36.3             109.8             148.5
1981           102.4         43.3             139.5             193.3
1982           138.7          54.4            134.4             196.0
1983           174.8         43.8             129.7             179.9
1984           212.0         65.4             163.4             235.0
1985           232.0         49.3             142.9             199.3
1986           256.6          51.9            119.4             177.1
1987           320.7         57.6             158.1             222.3
1988           365.0         46.4             181.0             232.0
1989           490.0          55.3            183.7             241.4
Averaae Annual Growth Rates
Tourist arrivals in Cyprus (1979-1989):                                 15.3%
Tourist overnights in 1-5 star hotels, all Cyprus (1979-89):            13.0%
Tourist overnights in 1-5 star hotels, Larnaca (1979-89):               14.3%
Tourist overnights in 1-5 star hotels, Famgusta District (1979-89):  19.5%
Nimber of beds in 1-5 star hotels, all Cyprus:                           9.8%
Number of beds in 1-5 star hotels, Larnac (1981-89):                    15.2%
Number of beds in 1-5 star hotels, Faugusta District (1981-89):         16.9%
Gross receipts frou tourin (1979-89):                                   22.8%
Gross roeipto from exports of agricultural goods (1979-89               4.1%
Gross receipts from oexports of manufactured goods (1979-89):            8.0%



- 40 -                               AinLXI
Page 1 of 22
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
sumaryof Enviromntal Assessment Re2orts
1.    Larnaca relies mainly on septic tanks which are emptied periodically by
tankers which discharge the raw sewage to ponds near Kellia. Because of high
water tables, septic tanks mut be emptied frequently (often weekly, sometimes
daily), with associated traffic disruption and odors. It is probable that the
groundwater is contaminated with septate. The ponds near Kellia era
overloaded and the treatment is inadequate. The first pond is full of sludge
and a sludge delta is forming in the second pond. The outlet flow from the
fifth pond contains a high level of dissolved and suspended solids. Villagers
living downstream complain of odors and insects. The ponds will probably have
to be replaced in the near future; the site would be more distant, increasing
the costs of disposal and increasing the risk of illegal dumping.
2.    Implementation of the proposed sewerage and drainage scheme for Larnaca
would have numerous benefits for the town of Larnaca and its surrounding area;
and the production of treated wastewater, providing it meets acceptable
standards, will be very beneficial in a country facing water shortages.
3.    The sewage treatment plant site, consisting of 11 ha is located about
2.5 km. south of town near the international airport and 1 km from the Larnaca
Salt Lake. It is surrounded by agricultural land and undeveloped scrubland,
which is a halophytic (salt-loving) plant community with three ephemeral salt
lakes. The site covers approximately 8 ha of halophytic community and 3 ha of
agricultural land. The effluent storage reservoir, an important component of
the sewerage scheme, will cover an area of 21 ha.
4.    The halophytic community covers between 31 and 48 ha, depending on the
water level of an ephemeral lake located within the area. There is also an
isolated area of about 10 ha which supports transitional scrubland/halophytic
community to the south of the proposed sewage treatment plant and effluent
reservoir site. The scrubland and salt lakes are located within a temporary
game reserve which forms part of the Larnaca Salt Lake Game Reserve. The Game
Reserve has been identified by the international community as a site of
biological and ecological value in the Directory of Marine and Coastal
Protected Areas in the Mediterranean Areas and as an important bird area in
Europe by the International Council for Bird Preservation, the International
Waterfowl and Wetlands Research Bureau and the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds. About 165 bird species have been noted to inhabit and
migrate through the area, and five species nest in the scrubland. The area is
not considered to be important for amphibians, reptiles or mammals.
5.    The alternatives for various aspects of sewerage and drainage (e.g. site
location, treatment technology, disposal, etc.) that have been considered,
either during project preparation or during the environmental assessment, are
sumarized in Table A2.1, and are not discussed further in this annex.



- 41 -                              Annex 2
Pag 2 of 22
Imacts and MitiaatLon
6.   The numrous short and long term benefits for the area include:
An end to the use of ponds for the disposal of most of the liquid
wastes, with their associated probl ems.
-    Prevention of leakage of septate into the groundwatet, or into
stormvater which drains over recreational beaches.
-    Reduced risk of disease.
-    Reduction in illegal and uncontrolled dumping of raw sewage.
-    Production of treated wastewater available for reuse.
-    Reduction in noise, odor, and traffic disruption to locals and
tourists from sewage tankers emptying septic tanks.
-     Production of sludge for use as a soil conditioner.
=    An end to the reliance by new developments on septic tanks or
small self-contained and unregulated sewage treatment plants.
7.    The sewage treatment plant and effluent storage reservoir site south of
the airport has the advantages of bel , undeveloped and remote, being
separated from the town by the airport, and thus providing a barrier to
possible pest movements. It will cause little disturbance to the local and
migrating wildlife, and there is little, if any, opposition to the proposed
land use.
8.    Implementation of the storm drainage project will reduce standing water
in the current channels, and diminish the breeding grounds for pests.
Property values in the areas previously subject to flooding should appreciate
as a result.
9.    The potential cumulative impacts of all developments planned for the
project area need to be addressed when assessing the signifieance of the
environmental impacts of the proposed project. Other possible developments
include: -
A redevelopment of the sea front, including a pedestrian plaza of about
1 ki, is being planned. If this development coincides with sewage pip
installation, disruptions to traffic may be exacerbated.
An extension to the Larnaca airport is planned. The proposed sewage
plant and effluent reservoir should not limit this development.
In addition, a development of the agricultural land and halophytic
scrubland surrounding the sewage treatment works site for recreational
purposes (including a golf course) is being discussed, but would need to
re-assessed in light of the proposed project.



-42-
pge 3 of 22
10.  The most important nepgtive impacts of undertaking the proposed projoct,
and tehir associated sitigpting   asureso, are  ummarisod in Table A2.2. Of
most concern are the impact on the halophytic comunity in the construction
ad opration. phases of the sewae treatent plant. Care should be taken to
ininilue disturbance at all phases. The effluent reservoir should be
relocated to provent the loss of the halophytic counity.
11.  The siLgnifLant potential risks and their mltipgting masures are:*s
Iffluent in the oxidation ditches of the $TI and in the collection
pLpes Ic likely to turn septic in a few hours if the electrLoity
supply fails and the aerators stop functioning. Standby
gonerators will be fitted at the treatmnt plant and the pumping
stations.
*    Failure of the chlorinator would lead to discharge of non-
chlorinated final effluent into the storage reservoir prior to re-
use. This should have little environmental or public health
impact, as the retention time of water in the reservoir is
estimated at two months.
-    Rupture of on-site structures such as the oxidation ditch could
lead to rapid dispersion of the contents given the surrounding
flat terrain. However, the site topography will afford natural
containment in the event of rupture, and little off-site
environmental impact is expected. It should be ensured that
future development does not impair this oemrgency containment
capacity.
-    Chlorine is the only hazardous chemical to be used in the STP;
appropriate training will be given, and the chlorinator will have
an automatic shut-off. Plans for the control and clean-up of
hazardous substance spills that can occur during STP operation
(e.g., Chlorine and raw sewage) will be in place and containment
berms will be provided whor3 necessary.
onitoring and Servisior'
12. The control of dust, noise, and odors will be tho responsibility of the
site engineer, with expertise provided by the public health officers.
Mechanisms should be in place to record and act upon any complaints from the
public. The Larnaca Police Department will be notified about planned
excavations in advance so that alternative routes can be ldentified to
minimize disruptions to traffic flow. Othor utilities will also be notified
in advance to minLmize damage to other underground services due to trenching.
Groundwater exposed during trenching and pipelaying will be toeted, and no
contaminated groundwater will be sent to storm drains discharging to beaches;
it will be either be chemically treated before discharge, or tankered off-
site for appropriate disposal.



- 43-                                  xD L2
Page 4 of 22
13.   Provisions for the protection of archaeological features will be
included in works contracts or sub-contracts: within specified areas,
clearance of planned excavations will be required by the Department of
Antiquities, and an archaeologist will be present during the work; outside
these areas, any finds will be reported to the Departmont of Antiquities, and
work will cease during site inspection by an archeologist.
14.   Long-term monitoring is required for the operation of the STP, the
irrigation water and application sites, sludge quality and application sites,
and the screenings disposal site.
-    Monitoring and safe operation of the STP will be developed in
conjunction with the design and site engineers. Sewage will be
predominantly domestic, and is not expected to contain significant
quantities of toxic materials or heavy metals. This will be
confirmed by initial and periodic monitoring. Pest populations at
the site will also be monitored.
-     Irrigation water (treated effluent) will be analyzed to ensure
adequate quality. Monthly analyses are appropriate, given the
two-month retention time in the reservoir. Soil quality in
irrigated areas should be monitored quarterly for sodification and
salinization, as well as for the effects of permeability and
drainage and the occurrence of perched water tables.
=     Sludge used as a soil amendment should be sampled at least every
six months for the constituents relevant to its fertilizer value
(dry matter, organic matter, pH, nitrogen, phosphorous, and those
elements concerned with toxicity). Soils to which the sludges are
applied need to be monitored for quality and accumulation of
metals, controlled public access, odor control, storage, surface
run-off, and groundwater pollution.
-     The landfill/tip will need to be monitored to ensure that
appropriate practices are adopted for the disposal of screenings
and grit from the STP.
Recommendations
15.   The proposed Larnaca Sewerage and Drainage Scheme is considered
desirable, with the following recommendations:-
-     The sewage treatment plant works should be planned and designed to
minimize loss of the halophytic community.
-     The reservoir for treated effluent should be built on nearby
agricultural land to the southwest of the STP site, where there
would be no encroachment on the halophytic community1W.
1U During appraisal, the decision was made to locate the reservoir in this
site to the southwest of the STP, on the basis of this recommendation of the
EIA. The decision was cxonfirmed at negotiations. The land for the new site



- 44 -                               MAiLN2
Pag 5 of 22
An accurate vegetation map is developed for the area.
The roemining scrubland should be maintained in an undeveloped
state because the vegetation type is an important and diminishing
community within the Mediterranean Basin, and the area is an
important resting place for migratory birds.
The sludg  from the plant should be used as a soil conditioner
provided it is properly tested, application rates and sites are
monitored, and the public is educated about its merits and
hazards.
The monitoring and supervision should be carried out as outlined
in the Enviromwental Assessmnt Reports.
is owned by the Government, and will be at the disposal of LSDB under a long-
torn lease.



- 45-
Pga 6 of 22
Table  2.s 1:                                             E       
- - 
ear Aipowt           3ll peUtAeal aseeptme               dIsm delomt pottial                        et with
Low       rih k                    iph l eeulsgal Value                    m fleatim
Lu. purchae smot
Lu  eleatio
earth C..t.l        Lm ee.la.ieal val.                Law political a.eeavmce                   Rjeet
ACea                 Lu. eleatin                      31gb U       risk
31gb urchase oawt
Nudium operatimns scat
3pGb devel_nt potntial
Nea VeAle            Low ecological value             Ls political acceptance                   Reject
U1gb hum  risk
Nih purcseh   cost
Nigh operations cost
Mediae dewelopmnt potential
Nedium elevation
Near Kiti DM_        Low ecological value             Loew political acceptance                 Reject
LoW developmeot potential       MNdium huben risk
NObJiu purchase coat
High operations cost
Sigh elevation
West of Salt         Low ecologeal value              Low polUtical acceptance                   Reject
Lke,                 Loew  levation                  MNdim hum  risk
NAdism purchase coat
Nudium operations cost
Medium developmnt potential
Oxidation 9ltchi    Low huMan health risk             Nudsum cost                                Accept
Zztmnded Aeration    Nigh political aceoptance        Nudism land requirment
Nigh effluent reuse               Audium sludge production
Chlorination needed
High maintenance
go Action;           Loe cost                        HNig hu mn health risk                     Reject
Wate Stabilisation  Low land requireent               Low political acceptance
Ponds at Kelila      Low sludge production            Low effluent reuse
edisum maintenance               Risk of iflegally discharged raw sewage
Stabilsation ponds Low cost                           Loew political acceptance                  Reject
Low humun health risk            Nigh lend requirement
low sludge4 production           Low effluent reue
Loew maintenance
Aerated Lagoons      Low humen health risk            Nudium cost                                Reject
Loe sludge production            Loew political acceptance
Medium maintenance               Nigh lend requirement
Nudium effluent reuse
Activated Sludge    Lowe bumn health risk             High cost                                  Reject
Medium political acceptance      Medium effluent reuse
Low lend requirement             High maintenance
Low sludge production
Drying Be"         Los development cost              NOdium Land reqirement                   Accept
Low emintmenace cost
Nlgh drying potential
Loe odor
Belt Press                                            High developmnt cost                       Reject
Medium mintenanee cost
Low drying potential
Nish odor
Medium land requirement



-46 -                                               Annx 
Page 7 of 22
Table A2 1 leeo t.): __          o   _                         a
Sail Coeitiaew  Uigh trt.iUstiao  vaue for             NORMmanitesing requibemnst                 Aesept
rop prodwatiao
Low  peuetisem  soot
1Taseetal aeeeptahlity
Low devlo_pat seat
Lad Reclamation      sUi  t i sa"tiem value fat         Nedi  smiton   seirement                  "ajet
tow  greasi                    Nalm eoeatimes  east
Low derelep_t oost                Law sial assoeptability
Land-fill            Nigh p oial aeeptablity           Law fertilisatism  value                   Bask-up
Biah momitoring requiraemet
Nigh operations eost
Medium development cost
South of STP Site   Low ecological value               Medium enineering                          Accept
Low land price                       constraints
North of STP Site   Low ecological value               Nigh land price                            Roject
Medium ensineering
constraints
East of STP Site     Low engineering constraints       High ecological value                      Reject
Low land price
TRgITD UFLUUI   DISAL_
Irrigation           High water reuse                  High developent cost                       Accept
High political acceptablUty       N diAu operations cost
Medium land area
Evaporation Pons    Low operation cost                 LoW water reuse                            Reject
'ediue deelopment cost
High lnd area
Low political acceptability
Salt Lake            Low developa nt cost              Low water reuse                            Reject
Low operations cost               Low political acceptability
Low land area                     High risk to Salt Lake
Underground Recharge Righ water ruse                   Medium political                           Reject
Low developmnt cost                  acceptability
Low operations cost               Risk of Salt Lake
Low land area                        contmination
Sea                  Low operations cost               LOw water rouse                            Reject
Low land area                     High developent cost
Low political acceptability
Greaning Town and   High value to tourist trade        Medium development cost                    Accept
Hotels            High political acceptance         Hedium operations cost
Unknown social acceptability
Groening Airport    Low development cost               Loss of halophytic community               Reccet
Medium value to tourist trade
Low operations cost
Agriculture          S all increase in arable land    Mediu development cost                      Reject
acreage                        Medium operations cost
LLmited renge of crops can
be grown



47 -                                                AnnIxZ
Page 8 of 22
DOUTNWAST COAST MEW22A   AND DAKA   ~E
Table A2. 1 (ceot.):
Combined             Low inintenanee cost               medium cnstrwUtion coat                    Aeopt
MSdiUV hbbitat diversity          Nedlim potential to collect rubbish
Fleuible with respect to
other lend surtaeo
developemnt proj ecte
Open                 Low cenatructicn coat               igh potential to eollect rubbish          Reject
Low *sintenmaie cost              Inflexible with reepect to other
sigh babitt aiivaresity              lend surface developuont projecte
Clocad               Low maintenaneo cost               sigh enstruction coste                    Reject
Low potential to collect          Low habitat diversity
rubbish
Flexible with respect to
other land surface development
projects



iZiuc OF CPlaus
Enviromenel  litisation and Nonitorina PIn
Table £2 .2: Larnaca S    rane and Dra_inage Qo                et
MITIGATION
* Sist.uaea to   wrl_ md                       * Cmatructim sebedle                            *       hioU                    * C_t _ mm
1*6. people (lexavation,                       detour  ut.es pla     ad                        omtrater. ol                    thi   _otrUotim
tati .i noise)                                coordi.etio as part of eomtrzat
(Construction In Wdter)
*   etzetim of mtiitie                         * Clear_c. pervit irn                           * L_   d t                      * _lobe. u i&Ieat
Dpt. of mtiquities                             of hstiqAties                   et eetor                      9
* obaltori  by arceologist                                  a rt_t oetul""ee   a 1h     ut
during camstruotle.  period                                                   cotervtism pwried
o onoerd_me with the Depetmt
of emt.iqitiee Regulations
* Imoie p1ov isims In                             O                            * C0maet agreemnt
CMatrwctiom eomtrect
* Disruptieo et ietis                          * Cordnatiom with responsible                      Cmtrctor/LS                  * Centrotor  blUstiOt
services (pipe. cebi.)                          authorities                                                                    tbe   one.t_tiou
* Itposed g   iroudewtor cmtemnrated with       * Test for contaminatioa L=SC.tCr&ot4r                                                 contruction
septet.                                        go sea diechar&e  It c.mtlated
* PIetubmce to esting buildiug                 * Approprlate project design                    * LS/Costretr                   * Solewo olIm of
faomatioms                                                                                                                     1 19. deal.
* Constratlon previenm to outraot              * LDS/Ctreter                   * C    et   eet



=5Mz im
Table A.2 (catinoed): L
Shart-tem
 Dituwb  ce to wildlife dring construction       * so wVrk at da  awend dusk                        * tS/ tConLctr                   a* Duing construction
* teap machinery And traffic to site
and agricultural lend
* a  soVal of vegetation                          a leveetation, plEating of aw  trees               & LDS mad eootzecter             * Se ae plant operation
* Lose of section of halophytic comunity tre-   * Design 4   it, tLo *miniis  loss                   * LID/cOmaule n                  * Dseesc apl tiem  of *It site
finaL desin
* Trattie to the site daring construction         * tLming of traffic routes, timing                 * Contractor,  US, pollee        * Before start of works
* Disturbance of balophytLic c nity beyod         * FeCinD of STP Site and reservoir                 * LS,'ceotrtactr                  * AL coietieo of 3TI
ST? site *I                                                                                                                           c_rrwoir
* aencing of halophytic commity site              * LS/contractor                   * Sfefoe stnrt of contructioen
Loag-term
a Odors nd aeroels                                  (Treatment plent will be looated far
enog  ftrm the tourist end residential
area)
* Additional mitigation: plenting of trwes        * LFDS or contraetwr                Seftree opleatio  of
eemsretl_cio
* DwsDn for covered creening end                  * LSS/coneutnt _* S  ore oeepletean
sludge treatment (thickening ad                                                     of flnal design
dewetering) processes
* Noise                                           * Additional mitigation: plantin of trees          * LSDS or contractor              a Setae   _   4etien Of
esestamctiem
* Tisoul Imacts                                   * Additional mitigation: plnting of troes          * LSO or eontractor              a Safe" eoea0ete ef
oestrauctie
* Sealth hazard to workers                        * Trsining of workers, provisions                  * LIDS, contractot,               * CeLtret agreement
in contract, good pI mIg,                         workers                          thr e  construction
precautions
IL



Table £2.2 (continued): Larnaoa          and Draiaag Cmm
~g-tez
* Leos of bolopbytic ommuity frm offluent         * Relocate reservoir                               * LSD/comnaulteoL                 * Sed re  pee leo ot
Storage reservoir site                                                                                                                 finl  de 4
* 2bmvol of vegetotie                             * Roeetatiou. planting of mm tres                  * L=S  or cotraeter               * seems att tf
reoggeig egerties
Urn-toe
 Insects                                         * Insectiides. b   erial mosquito                  * Los                             a Ses, t  tact otf
centrol producets. osqutoflsh or                                                    *epsMS_
.huezal oillgoaolLne fil m
a Alg   gro-Lb                                    * MNitor F level in rersrvoir                      * ID"                             * O    ria   epretim
* Iclude F re ovol usnit press                    * LSDb                            * befere eoletm
alternative ln UIP delign                                                           SC tAl  l deetw
Lang-torn
o PbeIt  hazards                                  * COlorinotios, effluent reuse re,trict.in         * Inlieiality (bolib Berries)  * beto, e*ttlue
* Manitoring of *fflu<et quality.                 *  tmicipelitw  (kteith Service)    o rngt op*eretto
^ Increase in soil salinity                       * Keeping the salinity of drinking water           a water Development De pa rmt        rs eye *tiom
low by aininizing mouat of wator free
troe local bordboles
Acu mulation of chlorine  ompounds In nature    * Adjusten t of chlorination l1vel                   Las                            * note" offlet -
a Monitoring of chlorine compounds
in irrigatlon water                                                               a Durli    Operatioen
distrib.t.ca
IL
0



Table A2.2 (continued): Larncad 
*   rine  utropbication trom fttluent             * Huitor N level                                   * LIs                            ^ luriag oparatlen
intausiln lEto semoter.
* Include N removal nit proccss                   * LS                                R tm or _lItiom
alternativ, in STP design                                                           of fl-al damig
lnde. Trea b   eL _ imas
Long-term
* Sludge disposl nulsence                         * Ccmposting nd controlled reuse tor soil          * L5DS                           * oaring  peratiem
improvement
* Groundwater pollution                           ^ Control *nd collection of leakage waters         * LSDb                           * Afte  start of
*peratie
* Lining of disposl area it required              * LSD
^ Deterioration of soil quality                   * Nonitering of sludge mad receivi.g soil          * LhSh/ Hinistry of              * lur&ng opeation
*nd health hazards                                contnt                                             Agriculture
* Naintoainnce ot application records                                                                                  -
^ Restriction ot access durin  lend aplicatlaon
Rinkr i
* Deterioration ot weLor quality In harboutr      * Sedinst traps                                                                       Imnlad  In flas  dei4n
andJor marina                                   * OlL and Sr""s trap                               * LSDS/com_ltent/contr eter              .tl1l before
* Garbage removal screens                                                             start et oepration
* Place outlets outside nelosed spaces
* Proper drainage diteh wmdntenmneo                                                 * aurin  opealto
^ Pipe rupture                                      Preventive mainnance, stock of spare parts    a LDS                               * Durin  operation
* Pum  failure                                    * Stand-by pu _    good usintensnce                * LSOS                           * Refs start of
opeation
* Aeeidental odor at pumping stations             * Cbomicals (hydrogen peroxide, oxygen             * LIDS                           * Detl"a operation
or chlorine)
IIW
FN 



Table A2.2 (coatiad):  a .l             ..
* he..  distazhince at treatimmat pIlt             * Sra lima In treatment proes.                        LsSomtraetr                     * madeg_  eperie
training ot workers to hudls ecapLtinl
situatiim
* V.11. of equignmst (e.g. aratoer)                * Seral li1. In treamt process.                       L*I.W mtrestor                  * _u      epat
stock of spare par"
* Availability et minLamce persmel                 *                                   sees"*   peat
*'allre ot elactricity suppy                       * St-by amerators at trat_mt plnt                   * LES                             *  a_
MI p  L a stetion
* Fillss                                           * Oerf lo tntdvania  syt_                           * LES                             * l_bu  apraie                     I
* Cro ater 
- Seterioration et qUality                       a ltoetp  o trg etAin ter                           a LE                              * _U        _i     e
Debmee Operation
* tIner accideet durin   mstctin                   * Includ  safety proemees in ommmtrocticn           * LUS/cmtroteor                   *  Ci_t  _premt
contract
* Aroeiate amieerin  de"ig                                                           * sot" tfil desig
R eay access to sedcal belp                                                          *     _in  eematre nLlom
0
'4



tabl A2.2 (omtinued)):                    Med
* Leakage of freeheat  from reseroi                * Teat sonl przmeability                            * LUE eelI"l e      w, Sept.   * 3etw  fias  doew
or   _    1mtag                   om*Uo
* Lin  reerevoir if soil is permeable
 'ffluet 1Uty eostrel (ICAjD  .d f e.l   ^            e oeeklyISua sy smles                           * lmiciplt.y (Usalth esv le)  *  mJ  t_renmt
eolifoie)/precm  oautrl ef treatment pl_t                                                                                                Md diitmtim
* Operatiomal entrel of tratamt pIest              * Daily testin                                      * LM                              * L.A.
*  cmdsmtez Iwel med 9,ality                       *  mthly atlote                                     * Mnitery of AeriouLtae           * Ku--a irrigation
* Ueeth hasards in of *ffet reuse ares             * QaotIrly s*les                                    * aidcai    ty (Noltble )slee   *  _j  si.stim
a Cbl. e c_pomed La Sirr  atUie    ae              * SWrS  study                                       * Muicipality (3.1lt  Usseam) *             L  tf
* Soil salinity  n Irrigated aceas                 a lUmiR/qmaartozly numpe                               Mlst.yf A1riaultw              * Arirt iuisaem
Imet ppulatime                                    * Continuou                                        L0 
film  - r_srei
*  miteriu  of P_d  1 In *fflu                     * Wekly  t re ervoe  r outlt                        * LU                              * *ijeat et
tbuy tar "eeka at rese ir  It.                                                        trriesim  gteeteoa
*  AmpU _OLOAM  ef IP _d
a r_L m_it pesm
at U   as n"d
*  Mtoring of   1  meal omtamt is                  * Htbly for alud*                                   * RM                                 l 5   dispo*al aLt
slde med reeciviss soil                            * Semianully ftor rece ivi  SoIl                    * Iis t    f     ilere *fs site.
-i
0



-54-                                Annex 2
Page 15 of 22
1.    The traditional sewage dlsposal method used ln the project area is
septic tanks and absorption pits or holding tanks. Hotels and hotel
apartmnts with a population equlvalent of more than 25 people usually have
packJe sewage treatment plants, and use the treated effluent for irrigating
their hotel gardens.
2.   The proposed system would include a common treatmnt plant for both
Paralimi and Ayia Napa near Ayios loannis forest. The treatment process
would lnclude biological treatment (extended aeration) and tertiary treatmnt
(sand filters). The treated effluent would be disinfected and conveyed to the
hotel irrigation areas for irrigation. During the vinter time, the treated
effluent which is not needed in the hotel areas would be used for irrigation
of areas designated as forestry areas near the treatment plant.
Project Alternatives
3.   The alternative of 'no action' was rejected for several reasons, the
most important ones being environmental concerns and costs. There are at
present over 70 small treatment plants in operation in Paralimni and Ayia
Napa, and applications have been made for about 100 new treatment plants.
Many of the existing plants are approaching the end of their life span, and
will need major rehabilitation in the near future. The total number of new
plants needed by the year 2005 would be in the order of 350-400. Additional
septic tanks would also be needed to accomodate population growth, and the
laborers needed to support the tourism industry. The costs of continuing the
present arrangement are higher, under the assumed growth projections, than the
cost of the proposed centralized system (Annex 14). The proliferation of
individual plants would also create sludge disposal problems, and a treatment
plant for sludge would be needed.
4.    The alternative locations and treatment considered are summarized in
Tables A2.3 and A2.4.
5.    STP Loc-tin   The alternatives considered included separate treatment
plants for Ayia Napa and Paralimni, and several sites for a common treatment
plant. The preferred alternative is near Ayios Ioannis forest (site no. 1 in
the table). Its main advantage is that its distance from both the communities
and tourism areas is not excessive from the cost point of view, but is great
enough to minimize nuisance.
6.    Treatment Process.  Of the seven alternatives considered, extended
aeration is the preferred option. Because of the water scarcity in the area,
reuse of the treated effluent is the preferred disposal option. Sand
filtration and chlorination after the biological process are therefore
indicated.
Potential Environmental Impacts and Recommended Mitigating Measures
7.    The impacts of the proposed sewerage project and mitigating measures are
su mmarized in Table A2.5. The project's impacts would be mainly positive; a
centralized system can be better controlled, and better effluent quality is
expected. The possible short term effects are those that would occur during



- 55 -
Ane  2
Page 16 of 22
construction, such as disturbance and disruption of existing services caused
by excavation works, accidental destruction of antiquities, effects on
groundwater, and construction nuisance such as noise, dirt and odor. Short-
term programs should be set up to monitor these effects. The construction
stage impacts can be mitigated with careful planning and staging of
construction works; and damage to antiquities can be avoided through
coordination with the Department of Antiquities, and the presence of an
archeologist on-site, when necessary.
8.    The long term effects of system operation would include odor, noise,
insect or visual impacts, and possible health risks. Under the proposed
project, the long-term impacts are expected to be minimal; the remote location
provides additional assurance. The risk of odor from pumping stations will be
addressed by the odor control equipment. The possible health risks to
sewerage workers, and from sludge treatment, would be better controlled with a
centralized system than under the existing situation, and can be minimized
through planning and proper training of personnel. It is recommended that
training of operational staff for the treatment works be started during the
construction stage. The potential impacts related to effluent re-use can be
minimized by the appropriate monitoring and control.
9.    Long-term monitoring should include the following items:-
Effluent quality
Wastewater treatment process
Groundwater levels and quality
Soil salinity in irrigation areas
insect populations
Sludge application
Monitoring of sea water
10.   The environmental assessment also notes that more control over tourism
construction is needed, and that attention be paid to other infrastructure
needs, such as road connections, and recommended some specific studies, such
as the condition of the coastal zone.



Table £2.3   Alt_rati a for   rean
ageme           33*is           hians           Lft             bil                                       -
to b            O.S.1          hSIMON w     _I
Spies lewwe forest      UP,             am-us5           i.e             3.50.4          beud Uamt.e              tat            £uiM
bodheUst.e Cocast       £4?                                                              bard lintemeAseta
sit. a
*llest tLoert           A+t             40               1.0             4.03.5          bud Umaste              eee=tism
Bit. 3                          30              0.7              3.2+4.4         bed litmes                 V*s          a"
J     1_wsyJ.o'emesers  *               10              0.2              2.2             best Liestone          gwlwste         se1
Aako.is foret           t. =eVst
* . emOst
*?I. teem       400.6                           0.5             best lunset.             agse"estzata
VMUe                    P. e"st/
P. eset+
t: tasm         15              0.3             -               bad Liunt.               pivse           a"
P. taw
t. taw +
P. coet         75              3.5             3.5             baes itet                wiye"
LedkSue         t        . t.,_         75               3.0             -                miteme                 sa.             Iuiaoe,.
lathS  Leaie, SSt 9 A  A                40               1.3             3.5             bes Uaestme             stat            Szg4sth
VTha L^e, Sit. 9   A +. tt.w            65               1.7             4.0             bed linstee                tzuSoetSm
Vetbi Lodie, SiteS9 C  A                70              1.6              4.4             best lSamwt.me          stat.           igei&t.S.
Ajia layers             A               25              1.0              4.7             best limeteme           etsm
Ares  imAs"e foret  A                   25               1.2             5.5             best limest.oe           at.            iastm
The varlie  loetims ae _hin figreU 2 Sn thb s_iney of the iuxvimstal Asseasmmt Repoet fm ParaLimi _  AwSl NW.
0
p.t
oi



IZPULICOF CYPILUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SE=          A MXE          DOjEcT
aralini *nd Avia  on  C _mnt
Table A2 4  Corison of  a ste ter Tretmnt Process"
sAlM         silmi         -      ""KAI          .     .mAAL
-cawmtUmal                         10            9             S      6                     6 
- emt.t *tabi izatic               10            6             6              *                              a
- ..ti"l mcin                      16            9             5                            9                41
(miaetlar) ta o
-tricums ait ge                    9            9            5              *              9
*        - grzcoatinl biel4gcal
- w.t.trusbiaiaa~11             1@           5S
* l
-e.zt.l emm                        7            5             I              S             S                61
- mre tuL t*lUsa tms
-_                               7            *            1,             10             S67
0



RUtULIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SIVRAgK AND DIAXE&OK PRO2C
Parali  and A*ia   aCOMmnt
Table A 2.5 Nit eto              iayTable
* Disturbance to tanIle  au                       * Cotmatruion schdufle cd deour                           veJo nturner.            a CANtret sateen"
bask people (excaratlem.                          route" pmlagnu  a coodnuatiom                     hoteliem. eamress. goUge    twon  cometruetien
traffic and aosk")                                as pert of contract
(Coustruction la winter)
* Destruction of anthqfitiee                      * Clearene pe  it  aon                            * Joit ventu       De            * Deg.C       st
Dept. of Antiquitios                              of istiqauiiso                   of aeLtreeto
* locria  by aeologist                             Dt of   jii                    Ee        o" 1 u   c_tructi_
dnring constructiom period                                                         peried
In soordene with the Departmentc
of Antiqities Rsegulations
* Inlde provisns in                              * J     Veture                    * frct    cl_
cotruction contract
* Disreption of eistin                            * Coordinatin with responsible                     Comtractee/jelm  vurw           * COrecter malUstien
services (pipes, a lbu)                           authoritie                                                                         teh      _etruetie
hort-t.r
 Dmval of vegetatin                              * Iveetation. pletia  of rew                       Joient _vW&u   m_   eeto        * as"t gln   perat.
* Traffic tL tie site dtrin  comtrtin             * Pleming of traUc routes, tin                    * cotracto. joi_ Vore.           * *eete start of wedet
police
Long-term
* Wors end aerosols                                (Treatent plt will b  located far
onough from the tourist and residential
areas ) 1.5 hk)
^ Additional mitigation: plentins of tr ee       * Joint venture or  eeter            efeo,. cobetin of
Design for coverod screeing ed                  * Joint v e           _t          * _e        C letem
*ltude treatent (thickening ad                                                    ot fna_l desmnp
dewateting) processes
* fNise                                   -         Additional mitigation: planting of tros        * Joint venture or e_retor    * Defere ccoplatl_ of             °
' Visual impct ^L Additional nitigation: plenting of trees                                         * Joint ventureor * orseLtr        Delete cOepletion of
Tee2tmcotied
Table A2.5 (continued)



* EUith baad to gker                              a raining of  - Orer  provisions                  * Joint ve_tmr. eentrmtor,       *  MrSt agree_mo*g
in m=tract. good PJLi.                           workers                          U       emtausties
preceti
10ot-tam
* Removal of vegettiem                            * Ussgtatios. planting of ae  tre                 * Joint venter oc emat.r    * Debo start _o
e,ssntm  SCrseet
Lon-tm
* Inmscts                                         *   seticide., bacterial nsuite                   * Join  venre                    *  etrtrt 
conrol pcoducts. imoitofis  or                                                     _Perto
minral oil/gasoline fils
* Alae or-t                                         M Ibitor I level In reservoir                   * JOint v_mIeIe                  *   in  epeu_
* Inlude U real ovast press                       * Joint vaetre                   * De_rw  c6ieM
alternative in STP dsaign                                                          ef fcina  d@se
Long-term
* llcItb berara                                   a Cmlotriation. efflut guise retricted            * lmicipality too"k              * Dete oftl_e.
S.rvice)/DstrieL nkA  et         diatribtiem
linistry o* Ps_lb
a  torin  of effluent quality.                    * It_icip.LUty (3.t5b            a rigs  operatio
servite)/Distret Sa    of
Mnistry ot Boom
a Iacreose in soil salinity                       a Keepin  the solinity of drinking ester          a Mater Db  lqp c  tepw     t          Dring operation.
UNe by milmising _mut ot water fran
trom local borebolb
a Accu mlatie of cDlerino cO O_M    in nature    a Adjustment of chlorination leel                  * ambicipality (§sLtb            a Od   r ttlf   t
Servic)'Distriet Demb of *        i¢tJrihLi
Ministry of 5s0LAh
a Monitoring of chlorine camp_
in irigation woter                                                                 S wring  _rtiem
* Marine eutrophication frau efflunt              * Monitor a level                                * Joint venture                   a bring operti_a
intrusion into acw ater.
* Include I rueoval unit procwes                 * Joint vacturo                   a O tor cocpletiem
alternative in Sm? design                                                          at tinal design
SlUnise Trret  t *d Diseose'
L-g-tenO
 Sludge disposal nuisance                        * C4oeting  nd controlled reuse for soil         * Joint venture                   a  rnlg oFpert ta           o
imprvevuct
* Groud"er pollution                             a Control and collcticon of lOak&&* WaterS        * Joint vectare                   a Aft" Start of
* Lining of disposal &res it requird



Table A2;5 (continud)
* Dcterioratin of soil qulity                       * Honitoring of *lud0ge ed receiving solL              Joint Venture/                  'DSiW  *waUe
and helth  baer                                     contet                                               Depart"et of *guiuLtu
* kintnance ot sIlicOtion recorb
e 1e5.iCetion of access durin  led awlication
'Fipe ruptunr                                       'Ievetive maintenance, stocw  of spare parts    * Joint ve*ue                t' _in   eeem
* po  tfaiure                                       *S d     p          good maintmnw                    ' Joint ve_tue                       Det st  ot
Accidntal odo St p        1i11 sttis               a C    cal  (hydr        p   d   oxy        ^          Joint w*ter                      a _4n   Operation
or chlorine)
a Process disturbance at treatment plant            * Several lines in treatment process                 a Joint ventur./cet.ruet.e         * *eter  eperetlo
training of workers to bmadle exceptional
situatiens
^ Failures ot equlpment (e.g. aerators)             * Several line  In treatment process,                   Joint ventur e/aetracer         * Defr *retiom
stock of spacr parts
* Availabilit: of mainte_ance parenmel              a Joint ventwr                     * Deler*eration
* Failure of el*etricity SupplY                     * Stand-by Senerators at treatment plant            a Joint venture                    a SDter. epertime
and ppping Stations 
a spillage                                          e Overtlw tank/warning systm                         a Joint venture                   a Saftr e"  ratin                 g
a Groocdv  tor
- Detedioration ot quality                        * Waterpreof structures/innitoring                  * Joint venture                      Ce etrvution ce tzaet/
beet. eperatien
a Worker accidents during construction              a Inclusion of sfetty provisions                    * Joint vnturce/otraStr            a CotraCt agreemet
in Construction contract
* Appropriate engineering design                    * Joint ve.ture/eemLreetar           saft" flnal *eAl,
a Ready access to medical belp                      * Joint vectore/eentreater         a  wrig construction
wStil1 oaive  smcts                     _ii                                                             Ss      ibiLit
^ Effluent quality controeL(DOI/CGO  end            * Weekly/mntbly sa_ples                                tuaicipality (ealth               A 14m)t trtetamn
fecal coLiforn) of treatment                                                                            Service /District Drench            _  disimectieme
of Hinistry of  ealtb             pCeoea
a operational control of treatment plant            * Daily tsting                                      * Joint venture                      N.A.
a Groundwater level end quality                     * Monthly sepls                                     * Ministry ot Ag4rieltwre           Mceaty  rrigati
* Helt  hazard  in effluent rCuse areas             * Honthly s*pls                                     * Muenicipality ( Ie                 Modify irrigatiom
Servic)/District branch                                      0
of Ministr  f * eeItb
* Chlorln  compounds in irrigation vater            a Separate study                                    * Ibmicipelity (al"th                A dijustment of            F
Service)Vistrict Sr_ch            C     eia nim  tevel
ot Ministry of Helth



Ii''                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 22 of 22
*       ~*  *      * 
I            4 4
i    i           X  ~S     , s
Ii i
1                     .1
*           *         1lff



- 62 -
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Teehnical Alternatives    a sdLat Cost Solution
I. Ina
1.    The Kaster Plan Study and Feasibility Report on Storuwater Drainage and
Sanitary Severage Systems for Larnaca was prepared in 1982. According to the
Kaster Plan, the area to be provided with a severage system was the low-lying
coastal strip running from the boundary of the UK Sovereign Base Area in the
north, to Larnaca Airport in the south. The strip varies in width between 300
and 1500 meters, and is about 13 km long. Stormwater drainage to four low-
lying areas of town was also needed. Several options were considered for
treatment methods and plant sites; these are sumsarized in Annex 2, and will
not be expanded upon further here. Paras. 2-8 below describe the proposed
sewerage and drainage systems and the treatment technology. Because of the
scarcity of water resources in Cyprus and the reluctance to discharge sewage
effluent into the sea, the recent feasibility study, completed in January,
1991, investigated the potential for effluent re-use. Its conclusion is that
the use of treated effluent for irrigation of parks and hotel gardens is
feasible, desirable, and cost-effective (paras. 9-12). The drainage system is
described in para. 13.
Swawrane System
2.      The sewerage system, as envisaged at the time of the Feasibility
Study, would service the main hotel and tourist areas along the coast north of
the town, the low-lying residential area on each side of Timayia Avenue, the
port and marina, the main shopping and business center, the central waterfront
and hotel area, the old Turkish area of the town, and the new tourist
development extending southwa.zd as far as the airport. Since the Feasibility
Study was completed, the decision has been made to include some refugee
housing *states to the north of the town in the sewerage area. No allowance
has been made to accommodate any other zones into the sewerage area as
described above. If it is decided in future to provide sewerage in the areas
of town above the 5.0 meter contour, a new trunk sewer will be required. This
second system would be quite independent of the proposed system, would have
sts own final pumping station, and would deliver to an extension to the
proposed STP.
3.   Under the project, sewers would be provided in the highest density area
of Larnaca and th^ adjacent coastal strip. About 375 ha. of central Larnaca
would be sewered. The sewer system will comprise laterals, main sewers and
collector, sized to meet sewage flows that will be generated when the areas
are fully developed.  Thn will form an integrated system passing through and
collecting from the ti , center; the main line of sewers/force mains will
stretch 16 km from the hotel area in the north to the sewage treatment plant
near the airport.



-63 -                               Anuex 3
Page 2 of 7
4.    The topagraphy of the area, i.e., a low-lying coastal strip, dictates
that the laterals discharge into a series of main sewers, parallel to each
other. The only practical location for the main collector sewer is adjacent
to the sea shore. The lateral sewers would be laid in each street in the area
to be sewered running west to east towards the sea, with the collector
traversing the area from north to south close to the shoreline (Nap IBRD
22890).
5.      Pipe diameters would be as follows:-
dia. up to l50  .                      80 km
dia. over 150 -, up to 700m.           IQ-km
Total        100 km
Manholes would be provided for cleaning and access. Flow in the lateral and
main sewers would be by gravity.
6.    Pumping Stations:  Pumping will be required in stages along the length
of the sea frontage. Based on an analysis of variables such as energy, number
and location of pumping stations, and depth and diameter of sewers, there will
be 9 pumping stations along this length, and 3 pumping stations off the main
line, but delivering into it. There will also be 9 small pumping stations
serving small low-lying areas delivering into branch sewers leading to the
main line. All 21 pumping stations will be constructed of a size to
accommodate sewage flows to the year 2010. Capacities would be:
Pump arrangement (No. numps)
Pumping Station No.           Working      Standbk      lotal
1                          3             1           4
2                          2             1           3
3                          2             1           3
4                          2             1           3
5                          2             1           3
6                          2             1           3
7                          2             1           3
8                          1             1           2
9                          1             1           2
10                          1             1           2
11                          1             1           2
12                          1             1           2
Nos. 13-21                        1             1          2
Capacity would range from 22 to 300 l/s.
7.    Sewage Treatment:  The STP design is based on water use projections for
the year 2010. It is proposed to construct two oxidation ditches and two
final sedimentation tanks. As the sewage is expected sometimes to be septic,
no inlcZ works or primary sedimentation tanks would be provided, and sewage
would be delivered directly into the highly oxygenated liquor in the oxidation
tanks in order to minimize odor nuisance. There would be two extended
aeration tanks, ana two sedimentation tanks, with capacities of 24 hrs, and
3.3 hrs, dry wqkather flow (DWF), respectively. Effluent would be further



-64 -
Pag. 3 of 7
treated through two rapid gravity filters (loading at 250 mo'/m/day) before
passing to a storage reservoir. From the reservoir, water would be
chlorinated and pumped into the distribution system. Operational experience
may determine that the filters will be used after storage. Surplus sludge
would be thickened, digested aerobically, and dried on sludge drying beds
(10).
Wastewater Re-use
8.    Water is regarded as a very valuable resource in Cyprus.  The demand for
water in all sectors is increasing, and the available resources cannot always
meet the demand. The recent drought has emphasized the gravity of the
situation. The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) has been carrying
studying the effects of the use of sewage effluent for agricultural and
horticultural irrigation. In the Larnaca area, average annual rainfall is
only 350 m, and annual evaporation is in excess of 2000 -. The need for
water for domestic purposes, as well as for landscaping to provide an
attractive environment for tourism, is acute.
9.    Studies have been carried out on the use of treated effluent for
agricultural irrigation near Dhromolaxia, a village to the southwest of
Larnaca. Aquifer recharge has also been considered. Hotels are already using
tertiary treated effluent for the irrigation of lawns, trees, and shrubs.
During the study of effluent re-use in the Larnaca area, LSDB's consultant
investigated potential irrigation areas for agriculture and landscaping at
Dhromolaxia, south of the treatment works site, the airport, parklands, the
coastal areas, etc. The conclusion was that the use of treated effluent for
landscaping presented the most feasible and cost-effective alternative, and at
least 190 hectares in the Larnaca area were identified as being suitable for
this purpose, provided that a suitable quality of effluent could be
guaranteed.
10.   The primary consideration in maintaining a suitable effluent quality is
the efficacy of pathogen removal; in this, the reliability of the treatment
process and suitable operation of the plant are the main factors. The key
design parameters considered for effluent reuse included: primary landscape
greening areas and secondary areas as overflow; storage areas for treated
effluent ensuring sufficient detention time; annual water balance between
sewage production and effluent reuse; 12-hour daytime demand and nigh-time
storage needs; sizing of pipeline diameters according to maximum flows;
terminal pressures adequate for operating sprinklers and drip systems; pipe
friction losses; hydraulic head above sea level; pipeline location along
existing roads in trenches parallel to sewer lines; and chlorination
facilities at the pumping station at the storage reservoir.
11.   Distribution SXstem for Treated Effluent:  From the pumping station at
the STP, effluent would be pumped through a uPVC pipe main laid in the public
highway along the coast parallel to the trunk sewer, but in a separate trench
with lm - 1.5m of cover. From the main, branch lines (also uPVC) would be
laid to the public parks and tourist areas, where the treated effluent would
be used for irrigation purposes. Pumping capacity provided would be 280 1/s
(the peak demand during the month of July). Design of the distribution system
has been based on a 12 hour daytime demand at 2.2 liters per second per



- 65 -                            AmLx 3
Page 4 of 7
hectare (I/s/ha); velocity of flow in the pipes would be 1.0 to 1.5 moeters per
second, and terminal head would be 20 m, sufficient to operate sprinklers and
drip systems.
12.  Dxanag:  The drainage works included in the project cover only those
priority areas reco meended in the Larnaca Drainage Master Plan dated 1982.
The proposed drainage systems have been based on an evaluation of
alternatives, such as reducing the systess by reforestation, and flood control
dams within the watersheds (which are long-term solutions), and various
channel routings and sizes of structures, etc. The proposed drainage system
is the least cost solution to the drainage problem of Larnaca. Design is
based on a storm return period of 2 years. Drains provided under the project
would range in size up to 160 me dia. A major part of the improvement works
likes in increasing the carrying capacity of the Kalokhorio river channel.
II. The A&ia Napa/Paraliuni Area Sub-Project
13.   In Paralimni and Ayia Napa, the present practice is for hotels and
apartment buildings to have their own package sewage treatment plants.
Private houses, shops, and restaurants, etc., have septic tanks and holding
tanks or absorption pits. Absorption pits are functioning fairly well in
Paralimni town area, but this is not the case in Ayia Napa village because of
the sloping ground and dense construction. Along the beach areas, septic
tanks and holding tanks are used for houses and shops, etc. In these areas,
the growth of hotels, apartment buildings, and private homes is rapid. In the
absence of a central sewerage system, each new construction carries with it
the obligation to construct either a package treatment plant or a septic tank
and holding tank or absorption pit. In Ayia Napa, particularly, because of
the topography and density of the buildings in the village, this is no longer
possible. New residential areas have been planned for the village of Ayia
Napa, as the existing buildings in the village are rapidly being converted to
tourism uses; in these planned expansion areas, it would not be cost effective
to construct septic tanks.
14.   The costs of a centralized sewerage system have been compared to those
of a continuation of the present system; i.e., septic tanks and holding tanks
or absorption pits for houses, restaurants, etc., and package plants for
hotels and apartment buildings. The results of the comparison are given in
Annex 11, Table All.l, and show that the cost of the centralized system is
lower than continuing with individual package plants and septic tanks. These
findings form the basis of the economic analysis for this component.
15. AssumDtions Underlying the Comparison: In order to estimate the costs
of continuation, it is assumed that every new hotel in the Paralimni coastal
area would have a treatment plant of its own, and in the Ayia Napa coastal
area, two hotels would share a treatment plant. It is assumed that in
Paralimni, only the new establishments would make additional investments for
sewage disposal; whereas in Ayia Napa, residents will move to new areas
outside the village ceixter, and new investments will be needed. The growth in
tourists, population, and labor force are the same as those used for the
project's planning horizon. By the year 2005, 165 new package treatment
plants would be needed for Paralimni, and 120 for Ayia Napa (assumes 200 and



- 66 -
Pago 5 of 7
250 beds per treatment plant, respectively). Construction costs for these
plants are estimated at CE62,00 and C£64,000 respectively, and operation and
maintenance costs at 16.5 cents (CC 0.165) per cubic metor (in). These 0&K
costs include the costs of secondary treatment (11.5 cents/20) including
electricity, excess sludge removal, maintenance, labor expenses and
chlorination, and of tertiary treatment (5 cents/rn) including chemical
products, power consumption, one oporator 2 hrs/day, maintenance, and
amortization over 20 years.
16. For houses, shops and restaurants, it is assumed that the system to be
used would be septic tanks plus holding tanks (CC 1,300), and that by the year
2005, the number of such units needed would be 800 and 600 for Paralimni and
Ayia Napa, respectively. Each now septic tank and holding tank would serve a
population equivalent of 10 persons. The operation costs of the septic and
holding tanks consist of the emptying of the tanks and transporting of the
contents to the stabilization ponds. These costs are estimated at about CE
1/e.  The existing stabilization ponds are already considered inadequate, and
new ones would have to be constructed. These would cost about C£1.8 million,
with the first stage costing about C£1 million to be constructed imediately,
and the second stage to be added in about 5 years.
17.   The costs of the proposed centralized sewerage system and treatment
plant, used here for comparison, are the same as those used in the economic
analysis. These costs include physical contingencies. Land costs are not
included in either analysis; one reason is that the site would be
approximately in the same place for both the proposed new plant and the
stabilization ponds, and although stabilization ponds would require a larger
area, the land at present is largely government owned, and has little economic
value (the site is not within an area zoned for future development, and the
scope for development in other areas is very large).
18.   The net present values (NPV) of the two systems are given below in
tabular form. Under the assumptions given above, the NPV of the proposed
centralized system is about 231 less than that of a continuation of the
present arrangements. The NPVs for the lower tourism growth assumptions are
about the same.
Base Case Scenario Lower Tourism Growth Scenario
Present Arrangements      25,927          17,506
Centralized System        19,811          17,675
It should be noted that the NPV compar!sons do not take into account the
substantial environmental benefits of the proposed project.
19. Other Aspects of the ComRaXison Other factors which should be taken
into account when comparing a centralized vs. decentralized sewage disposal
system include:-
-     Small package treatment plants are located near hotels, and odor
may be a nuisance to tourists;



- 67 - 
Page 6 of 7
-       Hotels and apartmont buildings must either have adequate garden
area to accomodate the treated water, or the excess has to be
carried away by tanker trucks;
-     Sludge must be pumped and transported away.  During this
operation, odor may be a nuisance;
-     In small plants, chlorination breakdown may cause health risks;
the breakdown of air blowers may lead to odor problems and
deteriorate the quallty of the effluent;
-     Skilled labor is needed for the appropriat, operation of the
system. Operators often do not have the necessary knowledge and
skill; and
-    Quality control of the effluent is difficult and costly, and
results are often less satisfactory than in a larger plant
operated by skilled personnel.
20.   The least cost system for Paralimni and Ayia Napa consists of sewerage
systems for the communities of Ayia Napa and Paralimni and their associated
tourism areas; a shared sewage treatment plant in a centrai location; and
storage and distribution arrangements for the treated wastes. Sewage from
Ayia Napa will be pumped to the treatment plant through the main pumping
station.  Sewage from Paralimni town will be conveyed along a gravity sewer to
the coast and connected to the sewerage system of the Protaras coastal area
(the hotel area associated with Paralimni); from where it will be pumped to
the treatment plant through PS 8 (see Map IBRD 22891). The proposed sewage
treatment plant site is to the east of Ayia Napa and southwest of the
Paralimni tourism area. The landscape in the area is open, with sparse forest
vegetation and some cultivated fields. Treated effluent will be conveyed back
to the hotel areas along irrigation pipelines. The ctorage area for the
treated effluent is located about 1 km. from the treatment plant.
21.   The following specific components are included in the proposed project:-
(a) a sewerage system for Ayia Napa and its tourism area, including:-
-     a sewage collection network consisting of about 21 km of
laterals and main sewers, and service connections;
-     a collector sewer, i.e., main interceptor/force main about
10 km long; and
-     ten pumping stations.
(b)   a sewerage system for Paralimni and its tourism area, including:-
-     * sewage collection network consisting of about 35 km of
laterals and main sewers, and service connections;



-68 -AMU-
Pago 7 of 7
-     a collector sewer, i.e , main interceptor/force main about
10 km long; and
-     24 pumping stations.
(c)   a sewage treatmnt plant of about 26,000 iO/day capacity;
(d)   operation and maintenance equipment for the sewage treatmnt plant
and sewerage syst ems; and
(e)   rapid gravity filters and storage reservoir, and distribution
networks for treated effluent (about 17 km in Ayla Napa and 26 km
in Paralimni).



- 69 -
Pag 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEVRAEAND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Proiset Cost EtIMAte
1.     Su  ary cost estimates by expenditure category, year, and financing
source are in Tables A4.1 through A4.3. Detailed estimates are Included in
the Project File. All of the estimates were prepared using 1990 prices, and
the base estimates are presented in these prices.
2.     Cost estimates for the sewerage and drainage civil works are based on
recent civil works, including sewerage works, contracts in the Nicosia and
Limassol areas. For the equipment and materials, costs are based on recent
budget quotations obtained from suppliers in Europe.
3.     The cost of consultants for construction supervision, technical
assistance, and studies are based on person months estimates and on rates
charged by foreign and local consultants in Cyprus.
4.     Physical contingencies are 10, except for land acquisition, where a OX
contingency has been used. Import duties are not included, since the sewerage
boards are exempt.



REPBLIC OF CYPX
OIEAST COAST SEWACE AND DRAINACE  MJECT
Tabtl MA:  Larncea Component: Project Costs Including C tinguFcls
(Cyr  Pcund, '000)
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     19"     S-Total         Teed t     e
Sewrae   d Rus9  Scheme
for S_ara                              520                                                                        Sao
for Effluent Reuse                     162                                                                        162
st-total laE                         682                                                                                     682
Seer mid force Hine
Naterials rnd Equipant                            53      202      405      799     1340      907      152       35                     2619
Civil Works                                      107      410      823     1620     2721     1813      306       M2
ash-totat sewers                               160      612     1228     2419     4061     2750     4Ul                     1169
PIlng Statlae
aterials and Eqapint                              17       67      105      122      383                          694                    694
Civil works                                       12       61       70       70      150       42                 405
sht-totat pi  ing station                       29      128      175      192      533       42                             1low
Sewae Treatment Plant (STP)
Moteriats aid Equl  nt                          88       391     1000      360                                   t                     153
Civit Marks                                      116      274      400      110                                   006
sht-totat SmP                                 204       665     1400      470                                                2739
Effluent Tr"ete nt n d Distribution
Materials rnd Equpi[nt                           76       237       30      101      303       4                  793       
Civit Works                                       76      342      208      533      850      502      393       2156                                          °
asu-total effluent                            152       579      238      634     1153      548      393                    36W                              1
Engineeing
for Sewrag                                       36        56       68       8S      270      127      132        774                   46S
for Effltunt                                     10        28       24       26       42       39       25        196
ash-total   gineering                                    84       92      111      312      166      1S?                     960
Vehictes and Eqaip mnt
for Serwerae                                     13        25       21       27       40        5                 131                   131
for Effluent                                      4        11        9       17       10        5                  56
sht-total vehicie                              17       36        30       44       S0       10                              1J7
....     ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....    ....   .   ....         ....  .    .... ... ..... ..... ..... ..... .._
Total Swrae  and Reus Scemea               682      606      2104     3163     3870    6109      3S16    "101        2U662       21662    5745
Drainge Schee
Surfae Mater Drainag
Materials wd Equipmnt                            36       100      160      259      266      106      135        nu
Civil Works                                      54       157      241      388      399      160      203       142
sub-totel draInag                              90      257      401       647      665      266      338       2664         2664
Engineering (for drainag)                          14        22       25       32       43       32        s        173          173      104
Total for Drainw Schms                              104       279     426       679      706      298      343       2M           2w3       1w.
Technical  Assistane                                 10        24       21       24       35       32       23         6           160      169,
TOTAL LARLVA                               682      722    21.07    3610       4573     652     386U     1376      24636        24A66     6021
3333     3333     3.33     3333     333      Sa33     Bass      mm         Sass



mlt.C Of Cti
WU AT  COT   El   MD OSAIU E PUOECT
Tabe A4.2:  Pwralani Ca*onantt  Project Costs lmIludin CmtilScIM
(Cypn Pmm,. '000)
1991     1992      199      1994     1995      1994     1997      1"994  10-Tta            tad 
Samrag  aid Raie Scheme
Low
for Sewra                                          60                                                                  d
for Efflunrtum                     60 6
sh-totat land                                   120                                                                               12i
Sugrs nd Forca  Nins
Nhterlials ad Eqoip.mt                             57       100      200      200       260      156       we          37                    S36
Civii larks                                        23       97       155      525      104S     1020      430        3S
sub-tot  sewers                                  a0       197      355      72       1305     1176      S30                      431
ftqpin'  Statios
naterials *d EEquiupsnt                                      41      329      167       488      492         a       1529                   f525
Civil Works                                                  15      1S0      151       100       86                  Su
sub-total puqping station                                 56       479      315      SOB       S78        a                     2827
Sewa  Treatmmnt Plant (SIP)
Natwrslls and Equlginst                                     318      300      5OO       700                          U101                   IOU
Civil works                                        25      369       176      250       450       70                1is"
sub-totat SIP                                    25      707      476       75I0     150        70                              3175
Iff tuant Tr t_mat
Notarials *d Equii m_t                              a       124      130      200       220      110       90         002
Civil wrks                                         13        72      100      160       160       60       10         57S                                          -
sub-total offlumnt                               21      196       230      360      300       170      100   '                 145s
EffHuwnt Sistributlon Network
Netricts Ord Eqisn_t                               45       33       10       100        SO       47                  315
Civlt Works                                        20       66       169      175       282      243      143        on
sub-total efflsunt distribution                  65       99      269       275      332       290      143                     1473
Enqinasrins
for Sowara"                                        67       67        96      106      128       112                  5S64                   564
for Effluent                                       22       27        36       35       33        25        2         10
sue-total  nulnoenr                              Sp9      94       132      141      161       137       10                      764
Vhiletes ad Eqpipat
far Saar                                                              so                                               be                     so
far 1ff luwa                                                         2 t
ash-total ivahlles                                0        0       105                                                           us5
_ tot l t WIstes O O , ~....                ...       ....     . ...     ....     . ...    ...                     ....        ...
Total Swra  and Rom  Scheme                   0       400     1349      2046     2569     3916      2421      791       13492        13492      4543
,. ,,,.,. ,.      ....      ....   . . . .   . .. _.  . ..__.  ....       ....        .. ...
Technical Assistace                                    10       20        30       30       SO        40       30         a10          216       210
TOTAL PMAINNI                                 0       410     1369     2076      2599     3966      2461      821      17s2         137r      4753
333      8338     3333      383 #     33       333      8383     3833 3- 3_                        888_
0
O'



mmic w e_wu
IMMOMT COWT  110S 3M mAaW WCI
T1M  A4.3: Ayla Up         _ ti     Pwt csts 1ui,dq GM" n 
(Cons ftmd, 'OM)
1991     1992     193      19       199      199I      19o7            Sb-l            la" t1
twe
fa S_mra                                         45                                                                45
for IffR*  Mu"                                   45                                                                4S
mb-total lw                                     90 S
Notarials, I   Elpmuat                            40       4S       S0       90      120      112       40        497                    2
Clvil VIrb                                        40       60      100      170      412      400       174       135
mb-total s_n$                                  86       105      150      260      532      512      214
Pauig Statism
Fltariabl*  d E     Wl_nt                                 135      130      140      126       60       SO          U                    6-
clvil vets                                        20       89       60       60       40       20                  -
_b-total pwiang statiol                        20       224      190      200      16"       0       Sf
lineag  Tretsat Plaint (SIP)
ht     l aic d  Wpoalint                                  200      300      297      300      100                 119                   1197
civil Verb                                        10       25       90      119      340      335       44       l_
sb-total Sr                                     to      225      390      416      640      485       40                     229
Efflust Tretaset
Nateralas aid 1upip t                                               as      140      220       46       9         5                                          _
clvil Ves                                                 20       71      120      250       32       20        513                                        a
mb-total Offlu"t tretsat                        0        20      159      260      470       so       ye                    1N
Efflawn  Sistributlia  Ibtsrk
Naterlsudl WlPMt                                  10       20       40       so       or       30                 37
Clvil Ves                                        10       40       60      160      250      140                 7
sbtotal efflest trestant                       20        60      100      240      337      170                                5
Eailnmrfeg
for  _ _- - ag                                   10       112      110       S1       62       30        6        33                    2n
for Effttet                                       3        20       20       20       20       10        2         IS
Sb-total. efnewring                             13      132      130       71       62       40        U                     45
Vabiclos wad SqJipw
for Ssiort                                                          41                                             41                    41
f1r Eff ist                                                         sr                                             17
aab-tot1 V   ci.s                               0        0        58        0        0        0                                0
....                                                                                    ....  .  .... ............................................ ...  ..
Total S rawp wd a         cO m               0       3        7       11                2229     136 4S0                            6      235
....     ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....    ....   .   ....         ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Tnetbcs Assutser                                      3        5       20       20         )       16        1         a5           as       a
TOTAL ATIA hM                                0      236      m        ig1     1467     2249     1363      451       T72
uw-   *-a         ama    _m         ma_      m_s      mm    _m    _  _



ft   mCs a go   a $Ie so  of Is 9 8            K It St t  et Le cc g    QC OC 9Z CZ  ZZ ST COt             C                         00"vo   1"e0
uOct    OS                        losg p.iws.a  :g.TlmnTm
ason     a  a    a St ofCs    n     Cs Scc    e    ol sc oc cz  oz n OT t    C                       TAdTa  esaw              PM mwileiS
OOt SC                                unme1   V" Pon
set a@ so     aU   K   GO et 99 a   9                                                                                           - 4TSe ussv=ko VW
m;w "zz  p m  $MTVw .mW3 3Ss
t da
I                                               a go L    ct ccO D      t                       K                   K      U" KwnU  to"  So Omz  "I0
.S1SUhiZI 1W  elmul si .s_m
g  ue aazm
OOTS     COfU        II@9 U CI0 tOT                     10~¶~wl W   JS30Wv5
wtuw           g  n Z o s~    t TCsCZ t CT L C C t                                     UaTTJ pm :az.s
*I 03T 1-S33S~
W  i   t   !   i   x   .   i   t   t  i    -vv-  .ii t-  -- upsqo  mIuIn   iorz
z~~~~s    mv   -  -     za~~WllsiIP-esuzaes-
m-o S__ZV_         w
ass_Sn ns  sttt  9ete                          t9IAV    TXM
a-_*-w-~~~~~~~~~~~~Of" ""lVr_w&4ftf



ill
q64
to et e aiU  P.TI'.  :ftTe.U2
Uimw  wu~~uu   *                                      ium~~;ubZ .ommWq  m sl,zedOpu
WI"  go  mas us                           6L11@I L                                                 "eest  s  zwIE 9KAnO
utwsuu   csg nsegeitK up   se wu  nt etwp ?iINZqpmi PMzw 99026
OT~~~~~ UIIIZ O£ .bauug
S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gmS
61W   WULLOCL  OZLC6    _q *                                          'V'~  XWU Pm  ZW
OOt ~  ~    ~     qq OS6IZ  Pm1,
66go 1  a6g6a6o 66 Lt UI  I e Ksp     SC et S   Stt IS                       *t SZ                  "m  SZ1@*Z.T
a° w #n          * S est   OC9=         a    st                   n                                          TMI"a PM tae           t z oI
on so  so IIt St  at It St et  St  S                                  Zo  to I PM wV3
blg mWYI _   eUums
mg # S   w Uan    #o gl       K9  U    " to SStO St    SCt SZa St  et           S     #2w11 P  310AO
n. _s *_
* Id    I   0 *      I   t I    *P 9 9 I   0 9 9  t      0 Ij    I    I 9 Z  I       9 t ZT     T
-50-  -            - -           My - -wr
_l-  AT0 - I   -                    Utl 
(~~~~~~ _1>va VW_



mc CA
DOTA?mS              m     a2 A1      _~
r    ~~a _r am    amr   am    am 
AVerag BMWt Rats (Per CZ 166
et proquty Areseamt)                     2.56        2.50        4.50        4.50        5.75         3.75        0.25 .2S                6.25
Iter kobuoe (CSU                         0           0           0           0.17        0.17         6.22        6.22        6.26        6.26
Cbarge tr Iuig4et4eme Watr(CMl)          0           0           0           0.2"         0.20        0.25        6.25        0.35         6.26
Opecaijwa  Ratio (2)                     13          17           2          21          20           *0          42          44          45
Selt-timmci.  Rlati (t)                 33          o1           31          21          34           56          43          all          a
Debt Service Coverage (Uteg)            7.7          4.6         6.0         2.3         2.2          1.7         1.6         1.4         1.2
Receivables (Potbs Rwevams)             3            3           3           3           2.2          2.2         1.0         1.6         1.$
nim
Aerase Swer Retes (ter Cl 1006
at fCperty hAseseaot)                   3.75         3.75        5.50        5.50        6.50         6.5s        6.50        6.54        6. so@
Hater Szchrg* (Ca/O  0                               0           6           6           0.17         6.22        6.22        6.2 a.26 
Cmlo ter IrriBatieon Uet*r(CL/)          0           a           0           a           0.20         0.25        6.25        6.2         6.326
Oper tias Ratio (I)                      15          16          11          13          33           43          4           43          43
Slf-Fana,ci  Ratio (x)                  27           15          30          17          19          25           46          as          as
Debt Service Coverage (time)             6.9         4.6         6.2         2.0         1.7          1.4         1.3         1.5         1.4
Reeivabls ("nth* Revummes)               3           3           3           3           2.2         2.2          1.6         1.6         1.6
A"re Sewer Rates (ter Ct 1000
of ?icerty Asscsmmt)                    3.00         3.00        3.00        4.25        4.25        4.56         4.56        4.50        4.56
Water Surcberge (CL/O                   0            0           0           0           0.17        0.22        6.22         *.26        6.26
Cmrge for Irrigatioe Ibter(CL/u0)       0            0           0           0           0.20        0.25        0.25         6.32        6.26
Opeetia Ratio ()                        20           23          19          16          40          45          46           43          42
SeLE-F-umcins Ratio (1)                 29           16          16          17          19          40          71           112         105 
Debt Servieo Coverage (tims)             10.2        4.7         3.9         2.0         1.7         1.7          1.6        2.0 6.0
Receivables (Nostl Revenues)            3            3           3           3           2.2         2.2          1.6         1.6         1.6



rCUK   OF  CP
-K
ClaEl                                          cmstret  e ount           Typo of  *eomast    Sds of   DmmUl.s                   no/    CamSaat   east
1DmIu_t)  fl                                    value      Vinnsad    Contract         Hotbed        Cmt.zaet.o       f3*      h      _     a        C-
-                                                 --                                      -   -
----MU $mIGlL    ---
Cemtcat lb. 1 -  _rn-se t    _ootamt 1r_t.                               Turnkey
sterage  emvi mi a  filt.ot                     1S.5          4.2        wk md           ICJ            1          wet          10/Si      12/S1       3/9r
_Pt
cilat lb. 2 - Urtase.  -          _ales .ni
Irrigation ge ate"o of atb/eMtal LaImCa          15           3          waift/Pipes    Ica             1          S/S1         10/31      1VU         3/5
CamLgot N. 2 - S_omg,. drimas md
imgIt*am  iez ast  of ueaot&mtat Learwl     12                2.25       VW*k/PI Po/   Ica              I          2/U           4/U       am         122/9S
Cut.mt so. 4 - Uumae, drams. mi                                                                                                                                        -
irttlm  twot     als t& mxrtbem                                          Hsrka/?ipee/
beel md tourt  strip.                             12          2.25           4sat        tCs            1          4/5           3/         6IS        S/US
Oratbm MA maatm_no  equipomat                     0.5          0.3       goods          Local        Sveral    12V2/            3/U        VW         3/5S
Procurement
ffsbewebs:  amaLwtiut   supevislob               2.6          1.4        Comnultant    guaidlines       1          8/S1         1li       iUS         12/U9
T_b.isl *saban                                    0.5         0.5        Consultant    Guide.ii.        1          /S             /S       10Si1       Wu
oI



UT ourwS CA_  :rVEM
Com                                               ComIzeot    Amot   S yp of             Procureuet  _ mer of   Deanna               DUal       .WAst  _ M   C
(htejet. Cuosmo").                                 Val"a      Vinamed     Contract        fatbed        C.mtzacta      EmiLr      WaepeeaI.    ama,       CosL.ud
ifba
--_t  $ aiim---
1. C _ Trzeatmt lIMt, Storage                                             Tuakay
Ueamir  _id Tiltona                           1.0          7.0         WAS mid        ICa             1          I/9            4/U        Wu          41W
_pt.
2. Pallmi - S.wrqe ad Irrigation
Marks. Central ad South Jrtae                  7.0         0.6        works/Pipes    IcE              1          2/U9          4/US        am          at"f
3. Purluimi - Srnut  m*d Innigatim
Works Ban&  reot at  mid atrelimi Tomu         6.2         0.6        Warks/Pipes      ICa            1          4/04          7/J4        /US        12/U
4. NraLimie  - PVWu ws ltitet                      4.5         3.2        Wozkl/          ICa             2          2/U           4/U         amUS        S/Uf
S. A      _le NW  S_erase mid Iztigatime  Works    5.5         0.6        works/Pipes    Ica              1          2/U           4/U         W/u        lt2/fm
S. Ayla NW  Puain  Statiens                        2.1         1.5        works/           IWC            1          2/U           4/US        U/9        12Wes
7. Operattion   d Ihiutaamo  Eqm_ipmmt             0.4         0.2        Goods           Local        Sever(l       W2/U          2/U9       *V0 1a135
S. rnsueeia:  Detailed Drsia                       2.5         1.6        Cuasultent      Guidelins       1          4/01          5/11        7/31        71U
Curstxuwtimn 5upervision                                Canult t        Guidelines  I1             5/31          7/31        We1       12am
U. T ebical Assis                                  0.7         0.7        Consultant      Guidli1e       1         10/31         1lUOl        1/9t       lam
,



uMaKTi M3T  -             m    pECTf
Lam S1i elgll e
low it fid Tow_________P*JIWAI                                                                                                    u      m
ud mamat b&Arn                 SidnArumm      Ct .ahttv       DISMWuIMI*t  ClAttw            Disuruume        Oumwildw d1_mm    Ca1 w
mm
Sm     r 6 1932 .3                              0.3                0.2          6.2               6.1         6.1                *            1.
fto_w 31. "2                       0.3          0.6                0.2          0.4               6.1          *.2               1.2          3.5
bask 31. "Ps                       0.3          0.9                0.3          0.7               0.3          6.5               2.1          6.6
a_m  36. 13                        0.4          1.3                0.4          1.1               6.3          6A               3.4          16.6
mm
Sopt.r 36. 1993                    6.5          2.1               O.S           1.6               0.3          1.1              4.5          15.6
iugw 31. 19M                       0.5          2.9                0.2          1.5               5.3          1.4               6.1         ".0
Umrs 31. 194                       0.3          3.2                0.7          2.5               0.4          1.                7.5         23.4
JAm  30.  94                       0.9         4.1                0.7           3.2              0.3          2.1               9.4         2.4
Septz      30. 1990 0.9                         5.0                0.6          3.               0.3          2.4               11.2        35.0 
kei n_m   31. 194                  1.4          6.4                0.2          4.0               0.4         2.5               1.2          41.2
Nmrsk 31, 95                       0.3          6.?                O.S          4.CS               .3         3.1               14.3         44.7           c
ainm 30. W95                       0.9          7.6                0.5          S.0              0.3          3.4               16.         50.6.
Snpt br 36. 19OS                   0.9          $.S                0.5          S.S              0.3          3.7               17.7        55.3
Igeuabr 31. 199S                   O.S          9.0                0.5          6.0              0.3          4.6               t.          59.4
Nmrch 31. 1996                     1.9         10.9                0.5          6.5               0.3          4.3             22.0         60.7
am  3S, 196                        0.6         11.5                1.0          7.5              0.4          4.7             23.6           5.6
Snpte _   36, 1996                 0.6         12.1               0.5           5.6              0.2          4.9              25.6         U.
Semeger 31, 9416                   0 .         12.6                0.9          9.S              0.4          5.3               27.4         5.6
Nwreb 31, "199                     0.4         13.0                0.4          9.9              0.1          5.4 A.3                       0.4
Jam 36, 199T                       0.4         13.4                0.4         10.3              0.2          S                29.3         91.S
f M
Inpensher 30, "97                  0.5         13.9                0.4         10.7              0.1          5.7              36.3         94.7
ims;       31. 1997                0.4         14.3                0.4         11.1              0.1          5.5              31.2         9T.5
bsnd 31. 193                       0.1         14.4                0.0         11.1              0.0          5.0              31.3         9A.
JAm  30. 1"9                       0.0         14.4                0.1         11.2              0.1          S.9              31.S         95.4
_p tp i   30, 194M                 0.1         14.5                0.0         11.2              0.0          S.9              31.6         Is.7
"|Z"brek  31, 1999                 0.1         14.6               0.1          11.3              0.0          6.6              3 .9         6.6Y
kfm      31. 193l                  0.1         14.6                0.0         11.2              0.0          6.6              312.9          .07



- 79 -                            Annex 9
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Outline Organizational Structure for Sewerage Boards
BOtod of Directors
"Ixv
9~0"                         ~~~~~~~~~~~Acco'.ntwntl
Engineer              c? amftt         Administrationl
Seuefa0 &             ~~~~~Treatets ln
DroinWe                      Superintenen
Superintnd lt
Accoutfrg
Off icer         AdInistrctivc 
NaIntewonco                  Tretmnt Plant
PFwam                         Foreminn
pointor   TI                         PLant I
staf                        It lSttaff                   S



- 80 -
Amx 10
Page 1 of12
REPUBLIC OF CNYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEVERACR AND DRAINACG PROJECT
Details of Financial AnalXsis
I. Introduction
1.     The projected financial statements (income statement, statement of
sources and applications of funds and balance sheets) for each of the three
severage Boards are given in the attached tables: Tables A10.1 through A10.3
contain projections for LSDB (1991-2000); Tables A10.4 through A10.6 give the
projections for PSB (1992-2000); and Tables A10.7 through A10.9 contain
projections for ANSB. The assumptions used in the projections are given in
the following paragraphs. The financial projections are in current Cypriot
pounds. The same rates of local inflation, as used for capital investment
costs (SAR, para. 4.23), have also been used in estimating operating expenses
over the projection period.
II. Income statements
2.     The sewer rates, water surcharges and charges for irrigation water are
based on revenue requirements as per the Boards' financial objectives (SAR,
para. 6.12). Sewer rates for the period 1992-2000, together with the water
surcharge and charges for irrigation water (starting in 1995 for Larnaca, and
1996 for Paralimni and Ayia Napa) were devised to cover operating costs,
excluding depreciation, debt service, and appropriate increases in working
capital (other than cash), and to yield at least 20X of the cost of investment
(other than investments for effluent reuse) during the projection period
(calculated for each year as the annual average of that year and the two
subsequent years). The rates used for 1992 are those approved by the three
Boards for application in January 1992. Subsequent rate adjustments were made
to meet the Boards' requirements of financial objective..
3.   The properties' assessed values for the project and general benefit area
(in the case of LSDB) used for the first year of projections (1992) were
developed by the Land and Survey Department of Limassol District. They
reflect the conditions of the properties prevalent in 1986 expressed in 1980
prices. The total property values for the subsequent years are projected on
the basis of their expected update according to changes in properties
condition and new constructions since 1986. This includes a first increase of
2 percent per annum to be introduced in Larnaca in 1994 (to cover increases
since 1986) and subsequent annual increases at the rate of 2 percent per
annu. Total property values in Paralimni and Ayia Napa are projected to be
adjusted in 1994 in accordance with the rates established by the sample survey
and revaluation (SAR, para. 6.04). Subsequent update due to new construction
is estimated to grow by 2 percent per annum. The volume of water consumed by



- 81 -
Armex 10
Page 2 of 12
the population connected to the sewerage systems in the three Boards in
1995/1996 and beyond was estimated on the basis of planned sewerage
connections to the syste.  Sales of irrigation water are estimated on the
basis of effluent available for reuse.
4.    Operating expenses of the three Boards were projected as described
below. The income statements of PSB and ANSB reflect their respective shares
of operating the comon project facilities.
(i)   Salaries and wages are based on the number of staff needed for the
project imple-mntation, administrative functions and operation of
the three respective Boards. The number of staff was developed
from similar types of operations such as the Nicosia sewerage
system; salaries were based on current levels, including
allowances, as adjusted for statutory grade progress plus increase
for cost of living adjustment;
(ii)  Energy costs consists of electric power and fuel consumption at
the project facilities at current energy prices;
(iii) Chemical and maintenance costs were developed from engineering
experience on similar types of projects at current prices;
(iv)  Administrative and other expenses include normal office expenses,
miscellaneous and cost of billing and collection of the Boards'
revenues, including collection fee for services by the respective
water boards starting in 1995/1996;
(v)   Depreciation expenses were calculated on a straight line basis,
and according to the following rates; they include the
depreciation provision related to the effluent re-use scheme
(para. 6 below):
Civil works and pipes                          2.5X
Mechanical and electrical equipment            5.0X
The average annual depreciation rate is        3.25X
III. Balance Sheet and Sources and ARnlication of Funds
5.     LSDB balance sheet for 1991 in'ludes the estimated cost of deferred
expenses which were incurred for project preparation, and outstanding advance
loans from the Government (para. 11 below).
6.     Investments include the project costs (1991-1998 for Larnaca: 1992-
1998 for Paraliani and Ayia Napa) which were then incorporated in fixed assets
In the year in which they were commissioned. These include the assets
represented by the cost of effluent re-use schemes which will be owned by the
Govrnment but will be operated and maintained by the Borrowers, under



- 82 -
Page 3 of 12
arrangements similar to a lease of these schemes to the Boards. Government
ownership Ls reflected in the balance sheets of the Boards as 'Governn nt Long
Term Investment. Investments in 1999 and 2000 comprLse expected
constructlons which are estimated to be at 1998 levels. Interest payments
during construction were capitalize5 in accordance wlth local practice;
thereafter they were charged to operating results.
7.     Accounts receivable consLst of an estimated 25Z of revenues for the
first four years of projection (through 1994). During thls period the Boards
are expected to experience some difficulties in the billing and collectlon of
their revenues. The receivable balances should improve gradually thereafter
to be at a level of about 17X of revenues through the year 2000.
8.     Inventories represent an estimated two months of maintenance costs.
9.     Accounts payable were assumed to be equivalent to one month of
investment costs plus two months of cash operating cost.
10.     Long term loans include, in addition to the Bank loan, a corresponding
loan for each of the Boards from the Council of Europe Resettlement Fund (10
years final maturlty including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 7.5Z
per annum). Debt service on the Bank loans is calculated on annuity basis for
15 years financlal maturity including three years of grace.
11.     Government advances to LSDB for project preparation since its
inception in 1985 are consolidated, including advances for project
expenditures (land acquisition) in 1991. Debt Service on this loan includes
repayment with 20 years final maturLty including 5 years of grace beginning in
1992, at interest of 61 per annum.



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
Southeast Coast Swrage nd Drairng  Project
Lernace Swra  and Drainrae Doa  (LSDS)
Inrom  statemnts, 1991 (estimted) wd 1992-2000 (projected)
Year Ending Dwcb_  r 31,                     1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996         199     19Me     1a9 2000
AIsee_  Prprty Value (CL mitlion):                   364.1   364.1   459.0   466.2   4T7.6   467.1   496.9   50.6   516.9
lWater Cowuption bv Comwrcted
PopAation (N3 thousand)                                                        180   1.650    1,600    1,9      2,136   2,250
Irrigation Mater   3 Thousand)                                                    50    1,350    1,500    1.673    1.,"     1,950
Average Swer Rates
Per Thousd of Proprty Value (CL)                   2.50     2.50     4.50     4.50     5.75     5.75     6.25     6.25    6.5S
Water Surchrge (CL per N3)                                                      0.17    0.17      0.22     0.22     0.20     0.26
Charge for Irrigation
Water (CL per H3)                                                             0.20     0.20     0.25     0.25     0.30    0.30
------------------------------------ Amouts in CL Thousand   ------------------
Revenues
from Sewr Rates                             0      960      960   2,066   2,107    2.746    2.001    3,1f6   3.16        3.36                      on
From Water Surcharge                        0        0        0        0       31      281      396      43       So9      630                     L
From Irrigation water                       0        0        0        0       10      270      375      416      552      SO5
Total                               0      960      960   2,066    2.138   3,027   3,197    3.,5       3.766   4,016
E x p e n s es
Salaries wAnlge                             12      60       64      105      161      201  2C 6         319      332      345
Energy                                      0        0        0        0        3       30       56       U       112      117
Chl icals                                   0        0        0        0        2       21       25       29       33       36
Iaintenance                                  0        0        0       0       14      143      149      155      161      167
Acinistrative & other                       10      48       50       75       6s      125      140      1S0      1t7      190
Total                              22      108      134      180     265      S20      658      741      m        655
Net Werating Incom                            (22)    852      826    1,8U6    1.873    2,507    2,539    2,       2.95     3.161                 0  b
Deqrecistion                                 0       19      30       77      190      342      ss5       6       J74      901 "I
Net Income Refore Interest                    (22)    833      796    1.809  1;662   2,164    1.982    2.031    2.0i4   2.260
Interest                                    0        0        0        0        0        0        0      993      95      839
Net Income                                   (22)    833       796   1,809    1,682   2,164    1,962       ;00     ; 1t161    1.421
Operating Ratio X                                    133     17X      12X      21X      28X      38X      43X      45X      44X
14-Jul-91



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
Southeat Coast Seerag  and Drainag  Project
Larnaca Sewera  and Drainae Board MLDSN)
Statement of Sourees nd Applications of Funds, 1991 (estited),
1992 - 2000 (projected)                                  (meounst  in CL '000)
Year ending Dcbr 31.                         1991     1992     1993     1994      1995    1996      1997     19M      1999    am
...................................................................................................................................
S o u r c e s of F u n d s
groae In.ernal Fund                           (22)    852       826    1,U65    1,J63    2,507   2,539    2,796    2,9S       3,161
Low: Debt Service
Principal Repayments
tlu                                                 0        0        0        0        0      650      650      650      650
Other                                      0        0        0        0        0       98       223      437      752    1,220
Total                               0        0        0        0        0       96      673    1.017    1,402    1.170
Interest
1365                                       0       62      107      193      288      382      438      421      376       327
Other                                     25       58       90      153      252      396       526      sn       S4      512
Total                              25      121      196      346      540      776      964      993       923      839
Total Debt Service                           25      121      196      346      540      876    1636    2.000   2,326    2,710
Net Internal Cenerated Fuxds                  (47)     732      630    1,540    1,333    1,631       701      718      633      452
Governimnt Long Ter  Invest ent               162      166      618      271      677      1205      592      416        0        0
Long Term Borrowing                                                                                                                                      I
IBRD                                         0      385      882    1,575    1,145    1,556      749      208         0        0                     0o
Coumcil of Europe                            0      207      629    1,066    1,576    2,343    1,43S       429        0        0                     &-
other                                      567        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0      800
Total                             567      592    1,511    2,641    2,721    3,899   2,184       637         0       0
Total Sources                            682    1,490    2,759    4,452    4,731    6,735    3,477    .7M         633    1,252
A p p l i c a t i o n of F u n d s
Investments
Project                                    682      722   2,407   3,610    4,573    6,852    3,W86    1,376           0        0
Other Investm.nts                            0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0      450      SSO
total                             682      722   2,407    3.610    4,573    6.852    3,U46    1,376       450       SSO
Increase (Decrease) in
Non-Csh Working Capital                      0      162    (173)       94      (42)   (131)    267         259      14        38                °
;;i....@ .......  ........ .* ..... ..... ........ .......  ........ .......  ........ .......  .... --.....-.-- ---  
Total Applications                       682      884    2.234    3,704    4,531    6,721    4,113    1,635       S9S      Su 6
Ineremse (Decreas) in Cash                     (0)     606      525      748      199       14    (636)       136       39      663
Cash Balance at Boiming of Year                 0       (0)    605    1,130    1,878    2,077    2,091    1.45S    1,594    1.632
Cash Balance at End of Year                    (0)    605    1,130    1,8       2,077    2,091    1,455    1,594    1,632    2,296
333a333  33z=3X  3333333  3=3333 3Mass            3x3f3= m#m *#_  *------
Debt Service Coverag                                   7.1       4.2     5.5      3.5       2.9      1.4      1.3      1.3      1.2
Self-Financing Ratio (3 yr. Aver.)                      33X       162     312       26X      41X      372      302     1902      752
*      t(excl. Irrisation)                           392      212      362      31X      502      50        752      NA       NA
14-Jul-91



REPUBLIC 0F CYeI
Southest Coat Sewerage nd Obrenoa  Project
larn    Sewrag an trainro Bord (M.)
Balance, sbnts, 1991  etimted) and 1992-2001 (projoeted)                          (_ut* In CL '00
.*....................................... .......................................................................................
As of  Decbe 31,                           1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    19"         1999       00
A  s* * t s
AsseAssts
F11* Aets
Gran f xed Ase tt                           225     932      932   3,76   7,922  13,145  21,116  2,04"   2,713  2,713
Los: Depreciation                             0       19      49      126     316      659   1,215   1,ff2   2,86   3,757
........  ............ ........  ............ ........  ............ ........  ............. ....  ......  . ... .... .. ....... ...................  ......
Nt Fixed Assts                           225     913      88    3,673   7,605  12.46   19,911  24,02   24,57   23,f95
itW k In Progres                            707     843   3,446   4,535   S.525   7,933   4,M         1,199      ()    sso
Total                           932   1,756   4,329   6,206   13.130  20,418  24,62  25.,81   24,057   24.S0?
Current Asets
*ectivabl                                     0     240      211     413      428      S15     S43      G0o     40       G8
Inventories                                  0        0        0       0       38      52       43       n       76       79
cash                                          0     605   1,130   1.87    2,077   2,01    1.455   i.54   1,632   2.296
Total Current Assts                        0       5   1,32   2,2"    2.5S43   2,657   2,062   2,266   2,34    3057
Totat Assets                            932   2,601   S,671   10.499  15,6n   23,076  26,34  27V,S     27,205   27.564
E qu I t y & L I a b I t I t I * s
Ecaity
tetained Eernti                             (72)    761   1,557   3,366   5,048   7,213   9,195  10,Z3   11,394   12,81S
C_nwiwmnt Lore Teom
Invetment                                 162     328      96   1,217   1,894   3.099   3.691    4,109   4.109   4.109
Total                            90   1.69   2,50    4,S8    6,942  10,312  12.S66  14.342  1S.503   16.924
Long Tem Borrowi.e
ISM                                           0     335   1.267   2,42   3.967  SS43   S,642   5.56    4,SS0   3,900
Council of Europ                              0     207      86    1.902   3,478   5780   7,047   7,096   6,400   5,236
Othr                                        842     842      842     82       842      7       730      674     617   1,361
Totat                           842   1,434   2,945   5,586   8,307  12,106  13,419  12,978   11,56    10,496
Les Current Naturities                      0       0        0       0      (96)   (8n) (1.?) (1,40) (1.670) (2.51)
Totat LT Borowing                         842   1,434   2,945   5,58      8,209  11,25   12,333  11,568   9,66        ,446
Current LlebtiztIs
payale                                        0      78      222     330      42      656      429      2       135      143
Current Naturities of LT ebt                  0       0        0       0       96      67    1,OU7   1,W2   1,80    2,051
........ ..... .... .... ........ ............ ......... .... ........ ...... ...... ......... .... ........ .......... .. ,r
total                             0       i8     222      330     521   1,S29   1,515   1.46    2.005   2.19                    o
Total Eqpity and Liabiitles             932    2,681   5,671   10,49   15,673  23,076  26,734  2V.54   27,V0S   V7.5"
Current *atIo                                       10.8     6.0     7.0      4.9      1.7     1.4      1.4     1.2      1.4
LT d.bt/Totat Equty & LT Dbt                         57X      543     55X      543      52X     49X      451     38       333
14-Jut-91



REPUBLIC OF CYPRS
Southest Coat Sewrg   ar  Drainew  Project
Paratlmnf Sewrag  Board (PU)
Incom statements, 1992-2000 (proJected)
. ....... .............. .......... ..................... .......... ..................... .... .... ... .... ..... ................ ... .... .................................................
Te_ eno Deor 31,                                          1992     1993      1994      1995     1996      199?     1996      19       20a
. .. ............................. .... ....... ........... ...................... ............................................................. . ............................
Asessed Prorty Value
In the ProJect Arm  (CL million)                      111.6    111.6    199.7    203.7    207.8    211.9    216.2    220.5    224.9
Witer Conesptian by Comwcted
Population (N3lhouaad)                                    0         0         0        0       379      624       901    1,570    2,121
Irrigation Mater (N3 Th _swad)                                0        0         0        0       179      424       701    1,370    1.121
Averag  Seer Rates
per Tood of Property value (CL)                         4.15      4.15      5.90     5.90      7.00     7.50      7.50      7.50     T.50
Weter Surcharge (CL per 33)
Chag  for Irrigation                                       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.17      0.22     0.22      0.28     0.28
Water (CL per M3)                                       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.20     0.25      0.25      0.30     0.3
-------------------------   A ounts in CL thousnd   ---------------------------
R e v e n u es
...............
From Seo    Rates                                       463       463    1,178    1,202    1,04       1 1,.d9    1.41    1.6,4    1.6
From Water Surcharge                                      0         0         0        0        64      137       196      40        S"6
Frm  Irrigation water                                     0         0         0        0        36      106       175      411      S                         0
Total                                          463      463    1,1782    1,SS    1,63                 1,995    2,50      2.7W
E x p a n s * a
Salries wid Wes                                           35       36        42                124       143      16        197      229
Enry                                                       0        0         0        0        23       43        57        e1       90
Chemieals                                                  0        0         0        0         3        7        12        24       34
Ibint    w                                                 0        0         0        0        86       90        93        97      161
Adinistrative & other                                     33       3S        50       60        75       100      110       120      135
Total                                           68        71       92       104      311         3      436       519      S5
Net Operating Incom                                         395      392    1,066    1,098    1,24        1,450    1.559   1905    2,23
Depreciation                                               0        9        25       39       167      323       395       473      SI7
.......  .......  .......  .......  .......  .......  .......  .......  ...--..P..
Net Income Before Interest                                  395      383    1,062    1,059    1,076    1,126    1,164    1,512    1.6m2            .           c 
Interest                                                  0         6         0        0         0        0       612      570       49i
. ...........  ......... ... .........  .......  .......... ...... ..  .......  ..........  .......oP 
Net Income                                                  395      383    1,062    1,059    1.076    1,126         552       942    1.195                  C' o
Operating Ratio  X                                        15X      173       103      12X       313      39S       42S       40X      4
14-Jul-91



IWLIC OF CYIMS
Southeast Coat Seweage ai Drainag Project
Pwerot ui Ssw4en Sowrd (PU)
Stat_nt of Sources nd Applications of FtM, 1992-200 (Projected)
..... ........ ^. .. . ................. .. .... .... .............. ................................... .... ...... ... .... ... .... ..... .... ... .... .....
Year .mdU  Decedw 31,                                 1992   l         1994    199      1996    1997    "9s        19       me
.._.. __.... ___.... _...................................._.__....... ... .................................____._.._.__ _................_._.,.........__... _ _ _
Sour c es  of F unds
&tew  Int lia  Uwws                                    395      392   1,006    1,096    1,244    1,450    1,599    1,90    2,20
Lees: Debt Sevice
Principal Repavsnts
Od                                                  a       O 0  0   0        0        0      see      so0   S          SW
Other                                               0        0       0        0       20      Ise      15       55      591
.. . ........ . ....... ........... ............. ... .... . ... ...... ..... ....... .. ...... . .......
Total                                        0        0        0       0       20      6Q0      45      .#5    1,'
intest
I1IM                                               45       73     126      194      278      336     326      21       22
Other                                              4.       23       54      96      172      249      36       2        26S
Total                                       48       95      161     291      450      55       612      570      497
Total Debt Service                                    48       95      18a     291      470    1,186    1.9      1,405    1,514
Net Intwtl Cenated Func                                347      m       905      806      774      264      261      SlO     623
toverrownt Lon Tem Investment                          168      322     560      670      745      46       24S       0        0
Log Term  oroing                                                                                                                                     0
Em                                                  205     596      962      903    1.496      722      96        0        0
Cosictl of Europe                                   100      402     424      749    1.260      916     151        0        0
Othr                                                  0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Total                                      305      996   1,406    1.652   2.756    1,638       44        0        0
Total Sources                                     820   1,61?   2,871    3.128    4,275    2,3        953    5s         425
A p p I i c a t i o n of F u n d s
investments
ProJect                                             410   1,369   2,076   2,599   3,966   2,461         621        0        0
Other Isnest_mns                                      0        0       0        0        0        0       0      400      460
Total                                      410   1,369   2,076   2,599   3,966    2,461        61       600 RI0
Incras  (Dareae) In
Iln-Cash Working Capital                             70      (90)     72      (41)   (124)    160       15S      141       38               6
....... ......._ ....... ......  ......  ..... ......  .......*--* .......         -      w*- ----'''' ODl 0
Total Appicatiom                                 480   1,275   2.148   2,558    3.82    2,621        976      741      468
1% :. M
Increae (Decreae) in Cash                             339      342      m        570      433    (234)    (22)   (161)    (64)                   O
Cah Balnce at Seiming of Year                            0     339      681    1,404    1,974   2,406   2,172   2,150    1,969                   J S
Coah Balance at End of Yew                             339    641   1,404    ,974   2,406   2,12    2,150   19m9    1,9I'
Debt Service Coverae                                   8.2      4.1     6.0      3.8      2.6      1.2     1.2      1.4      1.4
Self-Fiancing Ratio (3 yr. Aver.)                       27%     1SX      312      272      32X     20X      3K       952      96
U t(escl. Irrioation)                                37%     20%      41%      34X      402     21X      45S  NA        a
14-Jul-91



ItEPUBLIC OF CYPtUS
Southeast Cot Sewe     ad Drainag  Project
Primi Sewle Board (PC )
Blance Shets, 19P2-2000 (proJected)                                     Cmu_t  In CL a       )
As of De ber  31,                                              1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1"9       1        
Assets
1ros  Fixed As0ets                                                0                 951    1,442    8.859   11,043   13,1            "53   15,19A
Less: Ibpreciatln                                                 0         9        34        73       240        5s       "9       1,431     1,99
........ ............ ........ ............ ........ ............. ........ ............. ........ ............................... ....
let Fixed Asnts                                               0       551        917    1,370    8,619   10,40    12,2M5   14,41    14,
work in Proge                                                   4S      1,363    3,229    5,628    2,627    3,490    2,111              81          6
........    ........ .. ..... ..... .   ..... ........  ......................................................
Total                                             456    1,914    4.17    6.           11,247   13.970   14,3         14.5    1,05
Current Asts
Receivable                                                      116       102       236       240       264        312       339       426       476
Irwentoris                                                        0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         6
cash                                                           339        681    1,404    1,974    2,406    2,172    2,150    1.969    1.915
............ ................  ............ ........  ............ ........  ........... ........ ........ ....... .
Total Current Assets                                        455       783    1,640    2.214    2,671    2.4S4    2,489    2.414    2.401
.. ...... ... ......... .... ...... .......... ....... ......... ........ ........ ........ ........ .__
Total Assets                                               913    2,696    5.786    9,212   13,917   16.453   16,85    16.957   17,86
E q u I t y  &  L I a b I a       I t I e s                      (0)
Equity
Retained Earnngs                                             395       77S    1,839    2.96    3,974    5,101    5,652    6,594    7,7
noverrmnt Louu Tem
Iwstmmnt                                                     168       490    1,050    1.720    2,46S    2.950    3,19M            3.195    3.15                         CD
.. .   ............ ............ ....... ............ ........  ............ .......... ........  ............ ........ ............ ... __
Total                                             563    1.268    2,689    4.618    6,439    6.051    8,847    9,7M9   10.984
Lang Tm  orrowing
I"D                                                            205       801      1,783    2,686    4,182    4,404    4,000    3,50            3,000
Cmmcil of Europe                                                100       502       926    1.675    2,915    3,731    3,86    3,561    2,971
Othsr (ownmit Advenes)                                            0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0
......................... ...........  ......  .......... ........ ............  ... ........  ............ ........ ............._  
Total                                             305    1,303    2,709    4,361        7,097    8,135    7,86    7,061    5,971
Les: Current bMturities                                           0         0         0       (20)    (600)    (65)    (5)  (1,067)  (1,2YO)
........ ........... .... ;;.. .. ....... . ...... .......... .. .. ..... ......... ........ .................................................
Total LT  worrowing                                          305    1,303    2,709    4,341    6,497    7,U9    7,061             5.97?4    4."          
Current Liabilities
Payalme                                                          45       125      18        233       361       28         141        67        96
Current Maturitie  of LT Debt                                     0         0         0        20       600       6S5       55       1,067     12137
............. ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ......  .....                   
Total                                ~~~~~~ ~~~45  125  l1"        253       901        153       9i ,1i ,                                t     X
...... .....   ........ ......... ...... ...... ..... .......... ........ .......... ........ ......... ....__
Total Equity and Liabiltitis                               913    2,696    S,786    9,212   13,917   16,453   16,85    16,957   1T,                             IoO
3333    333            33         _3  3        3    _ _    _ _    _
Current Ratio                                                 10.0        6.2       8.7       8.8       2.7       2.6       2.6        2.1       1.8
LT dsbt/Tot*l Eequlty S LT Debt                                  44        633       60X       60o       623       59         so        An 4S
14-JuL-91



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
Southeast Coast Sewerag and Draieng Project
Ay Uape Sewerapgeoa"  (AMS)
InCome state_ent,s 1 M-2000 (projected)
... .. . .............................................................................................................................
Year mndiq Deerbw 31,                                 199      1        1994    1995      1996    199 7      19Y99    2 _
......... ................. . . .......................                   ...........................
Assessed Prorty Value
in the Project Aroo (CL mtllion)                 117.4   117.4   153.0   156.1   159.2   162.4   165.6   *16.9   172.3
Vbto Conemption by Conancted
Population (NS Thousand)                              0        0       0        0      612      84?   I115    1tSOO    1.61S
Irrigation hater (03 Thousand)                          0        0        0        0      512      747    1,005   1*,40    1.675
Average Swr Rates
Per Thoutsnd of Property Value (CL)                 2.50    2.50    3.SO    3.SO    4.50        4.50     4.50    4.50      4.56
Water Surcharge (CL per N3)                                                              0.17    0.22    0,22    0.26    0.23
Charg  for Irrigation Water (CL per M3)                                                  0.20    0.25      0.25     0.30    0.30
-------  --------------  Am ounts in CL thouand   -------------------------
Revenues
.... .. ......
Frm  ewr Rates                                     294      294    S3        546      716      731      745      760      77m
From Vter Surcharge                                  0        0        0        0      104      166      261      420      469
From Irrigation wter                                 0        0        0        0      102    17        271      420       631
Total                                     294      294      536      546      923    1,104    1,27     1.600    1,W4. TD
E x p a n * a a
...... ...........
Slaries and Ucgs                                    35       36       42       44      132      151      172      183       or
Energy                                               0        0        0        0       22       38       SO       sT       A9
Ch demis                                             0        0        0        0        a       12       19       25       31
NeintenAnce                                           0       0        0        0       49       51       53       55       5T
Adenistrative & other                               25       26       30       40       45       60       65       75       SO
Total                                      60       64       72       84      256      312      3S9      355      444
Net Operating Incom                                    234     230      463      462      667      792      "1A   1205   1.=6
Depreciation                                         0        S       14       22       96      186      227      272      zo6
Net Incoem Before Interest                            234      224      449      440      570      606      691      933    1,005
Interest                                             0        0        0        0        0        0      323      301      264
Net Incom                                             234      224      449      440      570      606      346      631      761
*---uuu      #z=UM  *azu    wa  _            _
operating Ratio  X                                  20X      241      16X      19X      38      451      46X      43       421
14-Jul-91



REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
Southtet Coat Sewerage and Drainoge Project
Aye Nap Sewra   Boerd (ANSS)
Statem_nt of Sources wnd Applications of Funds, 1992-2000 (ProJectod)                      (mamutS in CL 'S)
_. .. ................ .............................. ........ ................ . .......... ..... ........... .. .. .__..................
Tee  ending Deceoer 31,                                     1992     199       1994      13        1996      1991      19ff      19        m
S o u r c * s of F u n d s
Ors  Intenl Fu                                               234      230       463       42        66        792       918    1,2I'      1,33
Le: Debt Service
Principal Repsymnts
I1D                                                      0         0         0         0        0       26        265       26S       265
Other                                                    0         0         0         0        20       54        99       ISO         m
.... ....._..... ........  -----   ------   ......... ......   .... .......... ... ..~.. ___.....  ........___
Total                                            0         0         0         0        20      319       36        424       549
Interest
IURD                                                    24        46       86       126       164       181       172       154       133
Other                                                    4        14        29        48       82       127       151       147       131
.......  .........  .............. ...........  .......  ........... . .......... .. .......  -------
Total                                           27        60       114       175       246      306       323       301       2
.......   -------... .......  .......... .......  -------.... -------  -------.... -------......... ....... ........ ....... 
Total Debt Service                                         27        60       114       175       266      626       667        72S      614
Net Internl Generated Fuads                                 206       170       349       288       401       165       232       480       48
Bovewrnt Long Ter  lInvestunt                                68       100       296       520       827       260       140         0         0
Long Term Borrowing
16RD                                                     110       520      625       530       543       247        75         0         0
Coumcil of Europe                                        100       168       227       298      629       626       169         0         0
Other                                                      0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0                         0
........... ...  ..... ..  ....... .........  ... ....  ...... .  .......  ------   ...........I
Total                                          210       68        852       828    1,172       8         24          0         0
Total Sources                                          484       95     1,497    1,636    2,400    1,29S          616       480       49
A p p l i c a t i o n of F u n d s
Isw twnts
Project                                                  236       m       1,197    1,47    2,249    1,383          451         0         0
Other Iwestents                                            0         0         0         0         0        a         0       S00       550
...........  .......  -------... .......  .......... .. ... ....  .......  ........... ...... ........... ........
total                                          236       m      1,197    1,47    2,249    1,363           451      5s1        S50
Increae (Decrees) in
Non-Cash Working Capital                                  44       (54)       33        (9)      (34)      99       111        91        22
,,.,, , , . .......  .......  ----... ..  .......   .. .....  ........ ..... .--.---__P
Total Application                                      280      M7      1,230    1,458    2,215    1,482          562       591       s72                '*
Increae (Decreae) in Cash                                   204       241       267       178       1S5     (1U)        53      (111)      (a3)
Cash Salance at Begiing of Year                               0       204       445       712       890    1,075       89        944       as                    . 
Cash lIlance at End of Year                                 204       445       712       890    1,075       691       94 4                750
s333333   32=3   3=33a3   3333333         3       3 3 3
Debt Service Coverage                                       8.5       3.9       4.0       2.6       2.5       1.3       1.3      1.7       1.6
Self-Finncing Ratio (3 yr. Aver.)                            28X       15       211       17X       294       21X      46X       91X       OX9
( * CExcl. Irrigation)                                      361       20X       32X       251      42X       351      223m       NA        OR
14-Jul-91



REPULIC Of CYPRUS
Southeast Coast Sewr ge  nd Drairna   Project
Aya Napa Sewerage Board (ANSB)
Balance Sheets. 1992-2000 (projected)                           (o uts In CL '040)
As of Deceaber 31,                                    1992    1993      1994    1995    1996    1997       1998    1999    20G4
......................................... ... .............. .. ....... ........... .... . ........
A sa e t s
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                      0      322      547      830   5,100    6,357    7.629   9.137   9,184
Less: Depreciation                                      0        5       19       42      138      324      552      824    1,122
Net Fixed Assets                                     0      317      528      788   4.962    6,033    7,078    8.313    6,062
Work in Progress                                      263      772    1,5      3,217    1.442    1,876    1,055       47      S50
Totat                                     263    1,089    2,386    4,005    6,404   7,909    8,132    8,360    8,612
Current Assets
Receivable                                             73       65      107      109      157      188      217      272      297
Inventories                                             0        0       27       40       52       58       70       75       s0
cash                                                  204      445      712      890   1,075       891      944      833      750
Total Current Assets                               278      510      846    1,039    1,284    1,136    1,231    1.180    1.127
Total Assets                                      541    1,598    3,232    5,045   7,688   9,045    9,364    9,540    9,740
========  ===S = = X =======_ a======= = z =azz    SUZ3iz  aSzz
E q u i t y & L i a b i t i t i e s
Equity
Retained Earnings                                     234      458      907    1,347    1,917    2,523    2,891    3,522   4,263
Goverfuent Long Term                                                                                                                                   %
Investment                                           68      168      464      984   1,611   2.071    2,211    2.211    2,211
Total                                     302      626    1,371    2,331    3,728    4,594    5,102    5,733    6,474
Long Term Borrowing
IBRD                                                  110      630    1,255    1,785    2,328    2,310    2,120    1,S55    1.590
Covmci t of Europe                                    100      268      495      793    1,402    1,974    2,044    1.886    1.601
Other (Goverruent Advances)                             0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Total                                     210      898    1,750   2,578   3,730    4,284    4,164    3,741    3,191
Less: Current Naturities                                0        0        0      (20)   (319)    (364)    (424)    (549)   (410)
~~~~,......... . ..    ...  .....  -------   --------    -------- .... -------   --------    -- -- -   --- ---
Total LT Borrowing                                210      898    1,750   2,558   3,411    3,920    3,741    3,191    2,782
00 "i
Current Liabilities
Payable                                                30       75      111      136      230      167       97       66       74
Current Maturities of LT Debt                           0        0        0       20      319      364      424      S49      410
-- -- -   -------....-......... .. ...     --- ----     -- - ---     ----- -   --- - -   --- - -   --- - -   --- - -    >
Total                                      30       75      111      156      548      S31      521      615      484
Total Equity and Liabilities                      541    1,598   3,232   5,045   7,688   9,04S   9,364   9,540   9.740                      
==..zUz  uu.z...a ~gzuz   ssuzag X= uz zansu3u asumn.luu     ina 80
Current Ratio                                         9.4      6.8      7.6      6.7      2.3      2.1      2.4      1.9      2.3
LT debt/Total Equity & LT Debt                         41X      59X      56X      52X      48X 2    46       42X      36Z     30
14-Jul-91



- 92 -
Annex 1 1
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF CYPR'JS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Economic Rate of Return
1.    In the calculations of the economic rate of returr (ERR) for both the
Larnaca and the Paralioni/Ayia Napa components of the project, the substantial
benefits of property value increases and additional tourist revenues are
excluded; the resulting ERRs are therefore considered to be conservative
estimates.
Paralimni and Ayia NaMa
2.    The economic rate of return for the Paralimni and Ayia Napa sewerage and
effluent re-use scheme is based on a comparison of the 'with" and "without
project' situations, as described in Annex 3. In the absence of the
centralized sewerage system to be provided under the project, the two
communities would continue to depend on individual sewage treatment plants, to
accommodate the rapid tourism growth, and residents and temporary workers
would continue to have to depend on septic tanks. The benefit streams are the
cost savings, i.e., the stream of costs attributable to continuing the
"without project" arrangements. These are based on the number of new package
treatment plants and septic tanks needed, their operation and maintenance
costs, the rehabilitation costs for the package plants, and the costs of
expanding the ponds to receive the sewage and septage. Revenues from the sale
of treated effluent are conservatively estimated, and added as a benefit
stream.
3.    Cost streams for this component include the same elements as in the
Larnaca scheme, with the addition of some interim measures (such as expansion
of the inadequate ponds for sewage disposal) which will be needed before the
centralized system is in operation.
4.    The population and tourism projections (baseline scenario) underlying
the calculations are given in Table All.l; which also shows the estimated
costs for the "without project" situation, and the costs of the proposed
project, along with the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the
scheme--18.4X. Since the ERR for this component is particularly sensitive to
the speed of tourism growth, it was also estimated using for a scenario of
lower growth in the number of tourism beds (4.5% p.a. instead of 8X used in
the base case scenario). The corresponding tourism projections and ERR
calculations for the lower growth scenario are given in Table A11.2. This
lower growth assumption reduces the ERR to 8.7X.



- 93 -
Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 8
5.    The costs and benefit streams are shown in Table All.3 of this annex,
together with the estimated economic rate of return. Cost streams include the
costs (including physical contingencies) of land, civil works and equipment,
design and supervision, operation and maintenance, rehabilitation of treatment
plant equipment, and connection costs to be incurred by private property
owners. Also shown on the table are the results of tests of sensitivity of
the ERR to a 1-year delay in benefits (e.g. delays in completing the house
connections), and to a 0l increase in costs.
2.    Revenues attributable to the project are used as a proxy for consumers'
willingness to pay in quantifying the benefits for the estimated rates of
return. The revenue streams are based on projected sewer rates and sewerage
surcharge on water consumption. There are no quantitative data on the demand
for sewerage services in the area. Although the suitability of the use of
rates and charges as a proxy measure of willingness-to-pay is diminished by
the fact that consumers of sewerage services will not be offered a choice of
whether to connect or not, the indications are that potential beneficiaries
are willing to pay the projected charges. Revenues from the sale of treated
effluent are also estimated fairly conservatively, and included as a benefit
stream. This rate of return decreases to about 10 with either a 10 increase
in costs or a one-year's delay in revenues. With both cost increases and
delayed revenues, the rate of return falls to about 7.3X.
6.     Calculations for the average incremental cost of the treated effluent
for use as irrigation water are shown in Table A11.4. Capital costs of the
tertiary treatment, storage reservoir, and distribution system are included,
together with rehabilitation costs for pumps, etc., and operation and
maintenance costs. A discount rate of 9X is used as an estimate for the
opportunity cost of capital, and rates of 6X and 12X are also used for
purposes of comparison.



REPIJIC OF CTrMS
SOTHAST OST SVERMI  AM  3IAE~ PUOJECT
PsAtiani anW Ayia Nap0 CQ1qWMs
Table 11.1: ECOUNIC AIWYSIS -- _ase Case Scenario
Poplation and Towno  Projectln  ('000)
(19W)    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    21           am        -              am 32
A,#1 a"                   ----. .. ... ..  ....    ........ ....  ........ ....  ........ ....  ........ ....  ........ ....    ... .... ..
Resid nts        1.4    1.4S    1.50    1.5S    1.60    1.65    1.71    1.76    1.82    1.19    1.95    2.0          2.00    2.M5    2.23
ToLurist baik    14   14.91    1a.1s   16.91   18.01    19.18   20.43   21.75   23.17   24.67   26.23   27.S   29_3   31.74   33.0
Labor force     3.1    3.27    3.46    3.65    3.85    4.07    4.29    4.53    4.79    S.05    S.34    SAS    S.f    6.32    6.43
Ocldents         6    8.17    3.35    6.53    6.71    6.90    9.09    9.26    9.48    9.66    9.0    10.0    10.32   16.54   *6.7
Tourist beds     10   11.04   12.16   13.45   14.65   16.39   18.09   19.97   22.04   24.33  25.45   29."    32.72   56.11   39.36
Labor forec       2    2.23    2.48    2.76    3.07    3.42    3.61    4.24    4.72    S.2S    S.6          6.51    7.25     6.67    6.96
Total Pop. Eqv.  38.S0   41.07   43.84   46.84   50.09   53.60   57.41   61.54   66.02   70.13   76.15    W1.    n.12    91.9    62.27
brnml increment in Pop. (units)
Ayia Maps
Residents               47      49       S0      52       54      56       57      59      61       63              60       76       72
Tourist bed            910     969    1032    1099    1170    1246    1326    1414    1S06    16          17       19    1937    2063
Lbor force             173     183      193     204      215     227      240     2S3     267      232     20       314     332     356
Prat rieni
Residents              172      175     179     183      167     191      195     199     203      205     212      217     221      226
Tourist beds          1036    1146    126S    1396    1541    1701    1878    2073    221         2S2S    276    3         336    3749
Lawr force             227     252      281     313      346     367     431      480     S34      595     612      nr       21     914
Total Incremntal
Resident.laor force      618     659      703     751     804      861     923      992    1066    1146    1236    16    1444    15
Tourists                1948    211S    2297    2495    2712    29"       3205    3467    3794    4129    44U    4U          533    5812
CALOJATION iF IIITNOiT POECT COSTS (Contimation of Prsnt Arrannnts)
go. now units needed
Septic tas. etc.          62      66       70      75      0o       86      92       91     107      11S     12      134      144     1S6
Pwca  plants              10      11       11      12       14      15       16      1?      19       21      22      24       27      29
Total B pkc. plants
(incl.85 in 1990)         95     105      117     129      143     158     174      191     210      231     2SS     23       3       333
COSTS (CP CO0O)
mI plants conetr.+ reabb
eAmb. ech. works      230.71  230.71  230.71  230.71  230.71  230.71  230.71  230.71  225.01   250.12  277.46  W.5  3W.23  374.23
NW septic tar"         80.38   85.65   91.39   97.64   104.46  111.90  120.03  12J.91  136.63  149.27  1".   13.73   6.77  203.1
Hm packe pints        613.62  666.20  723.51  786.00  854.16  928.52  1009.67 1096.25  1194.96 1300.62 1416.63 IS42.15 11.01  13.73
0 AN s"etic tanks
Reidentsz Lyla Up    110.92  114.65  118.51   122.50  126.62  130.68  135.29  139.64  144.S4  149.41  1S4.44  1593A   WA.S  176.56
Laborers, - r   *1 A   W.37   93.30   96.51   104.01   109.81  115.94  122.41  129.24  136.4S  144.06  1S2. 1 U6.59   W.AS   179.81
Residents,  erarlieni   2.72    2.76    2.64    2.90    2.97    3.03    3.09    3.16    3.23    3.30    3.37    3.44    3.S1    3.59
Laborern, sutr, Pa.    0.37    0.41    0.46    0.51    0.57    0.63    0.71    0.79    0.13    0.97    1.6          1.21    1.34    I.S6
0  N 1 pkg. plants                                                                                                                                 8
Towints. A. Np        234.36  249.59  265.62  283.09  301.49  321.06  341.95  364.17  367.4  413.01  439.3   4.4T  496.2  531.34
Tourists Paraiuni    173.51  191.52  211.40  233.35  257.57  284.31   313.83  346.41  382.37  422.07  41.6   514.5   W."4  65.S6
Waste stabilization ponds         1000                                       300
TOTAL COSTS, '000      1S34.97 2634.83 1743.1S 1860.7? 1966.36 2127.01  3077.66 2M1.4  2613.92 2M32.67 371.   33.51  3612.96 36.72                 c
NPV                   25927.74



REPUSL'C Of CYntUS
SOUTUEAST COAST SESRME AMD DRAINAGE PROJECT
Paralioni *nd Ayf  U p Cconmnts
Tsal £11.1 (cent.):  ECONOMIC ALYSIS -- Be" Case Scenario
C     CALOS LATIN FOR PROJECT (Centralized Sewerge  Systme mid STP)
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1996    1999    200        2001 2a m  a0m    2f4
.,,... .    .... .    ....  .... .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    ....   ....  .    .... .. ..... ..... _... _... ..
I. PALIMI
SeAwalirris. met/equip.            92      121      266      259      258      161       77
tivit works                      39      18       287      604     1103     1002      440
P"Iang stations, equip                      37      291      14       406      390        6
civil works                               14      133      130       83       68
Treatmnt plant, quip                       290      266      432      582
civii works                      23      354      156      216      374       56
Terttiry tr.4 resv,  quip           7      113      115      172      182       6?
civil works                      12       66       as      138      134       4
Vehicles and Equipment                               93
Enbineering                        81       86      117      122      134      109        8
Plot comectins                   2.52     4.32    63.34    64.77    66.01    67.23    70.24     13.8   15.18    16.26    u.37    20.20    22.23
Equip. rehab.
Total Paralimi                   256.52  1233.32  1875.34  2281.77 3322.01  1968.23  601.24    13.80    1S.18    16.20    18.37   2I.20   22.23
11. IlA NWPA
Sewers/irrig. metiaquip.          43        S8       76      143      167      110       31
civil works                     43        89      135      277      533      419      186                                                                    a
Puaping statiea , wqUip                    120      110      118      103       47       38
civil works                      17       79       51       SO       32       16                            ' 
Treatment plant, eqWip                     177      253      250      242       78
civilt orks                       9       22       76      100      274      299       31
Tertiay tr.4 rev, equIp                              74      118      177       37       38
civlt works                               18       60      101      201       25       15
Vehicles wid Equilpent                               49
EngIeering                         11      117      110       60       66       31        6
Plet camncties                      1   25.38   38.99   27.51    28.49    15.19   15.61    J.58    9.01           9.46    9.93   1U.43    10.95
Equip. rehab.
Total Aya N"p                       124   705.38  1032.99  1244.51  1823.49  1077.19  360.61      8.58     9.01     9.4      9.93    IS."   Wt.%5
fi1.  OTER COSTS
1w3d                                120
Interim emaswes                   2635      872       46S
ON Costs: Ayia Mpe                 55.5    56.9    61.5         69    203.1    237.1    261.6    277.5      300      360      3        In       300
ONl Costs: Pwratleni               62.9    63.1    78.64    8S.48   245.8    291.1    318.6   364.6         396      390      390      39N      3K9
Total NeW Project Cots            3253.75  2930.28  3513.65  3680.76 5594.40 3593.62  1542.05   664.48   722.19  726.16   75.30   75.63   731.Ut
WV ('0O0)               21102.26
E0OKIC tATE OF RETUEN CALWOLATIOU                                                                                                                                so
Total costs, witheut project                                                                                                                                     a B
(can. preseunt rr.)             2634.83  1743.15  1860.72  1968.36 2127.01  3077.68  2441.4  2613.92  232.87  3871.13  30.51  3612.96 392 07                      x
Total cets, proposed project    3253.75  2930.28  3513.65  3680.16  5594.40  3593.62  1S42.05  664.48   722.19   75.16   1.39   75.13   731.1                   o
Cost Savirs                     -618.92 -1187.12 -1652.93 -1692.40 -3467.39  -515.94  899.43  1949.4  2110.6  234.97  N         9 264.31  328.S4
Effiuwnt raveien, Ayle Np                                             70.66   87.SJ   112.96   120.0   127.2   13S.3   143.97   IlL.*   162.S7
Effluent reveuwes, Pwrallani                                          87.7    110.29   135.93   146.78   158.26   171.79   15.17   M1.0   219.3
Total not ewf its, with project -618.92 -1187.12 -16S2.93 -1692.40 -3306.9f  -318.0e  1148.33  2216.2S 2196.90  .2 5  205.35 323.3  3S71.51
ECNOMIIC RATE OF K111IM        0.176764



ERELIC Of ChUS
SOUTHEAST COW  SEY E    I AND OAIIW   PJECT
Pwetrmlli amd Lya MP Ceqment
Tel. £11.2: ECODMIC A"IS -- Lower lowim growth Scerio
Ppaltls d  TuTra  rojctioen  (O1M)
(1990)    19"1    1992    13    1994    1995    1996    197    199            1999    21J      am1  ;m          a         m
AT'  _up-----9--- ... .  -....    .. ..    ....    ....                  .. ..    ....    ....    .. ..    ....     ....    ...    ....    ..._
_eldEs           1.4    1.45    1.56     I.SS     1.60    1.65    1.71    1.76    1.62       1.6     1.95    2.11    2.4       2.1f    2.23
Turist b1d        14   1a       14.96   15.49   16.02   16.57   17.13   17.72   16.33   16.96   19.6    69.26   20.9    2149   3.43
Labw fac        3.11    3.22    3.33    3.44    3.56    3.68    3.81    3.94    4.07    4.21    4.36    4.51    4.6    4*              4.96
PW1 iXn
bmiduts           a    6.17    8.35    8.53    8.71         .90    9.09    9.26    9.48    9.66    9.        IO."    16.32   164   16.7
Jurist beds       10   10.61    11.26   11.94   12.67   13.4    14.26   15.13   16.06   17.04   14.67   19.C    2.5    2Z.3    22.9
La  force         2    2.36    2.50    2.65    2.82    2.99    3.17    3.36    3.57    3.79    4.12    4.26    4.S2   4*_              5.3
Total Pop. EWi  36.51   40.26   41.90   43.60   45.37   47.23   49.17   51.20   53.33   55.56   57.3    0.34   42.96   45.3              6.4
mih Ineremnt In Pop. (units)
Lyla EqW
Residms                 47       49      s0       S2       54      56      S?       59       61      63                6       lo      12
Towrist beds           479      496     513      530      549     567     567      607      626     69       611     64       7       743
Labor force            108      110      114     118      122     126      130     135      139     144      149     154      1       165
Residents              172      175      179     183      167     191      195     199      203     26       212     217      31      226
T'iuist bea.           610      647     66       726      m       a20      570     923      979   l69    1162    lug        M11    1316
sbor force             356      144     153      162      172     162      193     205      216     231      245    2n        26      29                 a
Total incrimntal
eidmnts#labor force       64      478     496      515     534      555     S76      596     622      646       2      09       m 77     56
ourists                 10Q9    1143    1199    1259    1321    1367    1457    1530    107    166    1774    164              1MP    259  
CALaIlAUGN Of WITOT PJECT' COSTS (ContfmitIon of Proent Arriwmmnts)
lo. no unfts needed
Septi ta*s,etc.           66       48     5s        51      53       55     S5        60      62       65      67       is      is       11
Pwace ptants               5        6       6        6       7        7       I        a       S        8       9        9      1       is
Total * pFl. plants
(Incl.85 in 1990)         9D       96     102      106      115     122     129      137      145     153      12      172      31      192
COTS (CP 1000)
Omv plwnts censtr.* rdaeb
ebab. meth. umks      230.71  230.71  230.71  230.71  230.11  230.71  230.71  230.71  214.61  226.38  242.42 257.57  273.n21.73
a sptic tank           16.94   62.14   64.47   66.91   69.45   72.12   74.90   77.60   60.85   84.6    1.36   ".8    94.49   9631
mm pecka  plants      343.11  360.00  377.77  396.49  416.20  436.96  45a.83  481.67  506.14  531.12  55.1   5W              617.0   646.63
0 & 1 sptic tanks
esidKnts, Ayil NW      110.92  114.65   11l.51   122.50  126.62  130.86  135.29  139.64   144.54  149.41  154.44   59.6   165.6N   1.S6
Labor rsee _ M         86.16   89.65   92.93   96.11   99.40  102.81  106.33  109.97  113.74  117.43   121.46   125.   13.1    134.59
esnidwts, Pwralleni    27.24   27.62   20.42   29.03   29.65   30.29   30.94   31.60   32.20   32.97   33.1    34.40   35.1    5S."
ebores, srer, Pa.    3.93    4.17    4.42    4.69    4.96    S.28    5.61    5.95    6.31    6.69    7.16    7.54    LO                G."
0 & N Pk. ptants
Twourists, A. NW      227.60  235.39  243.45  251.79  260.41   269.33  278.56  2U8.10  297.96  366.17  316.72  329. " 34.91  352.6
Tlwists,  erwlJionl    16.77  176.94   167.73  199.16  211.33  224.21  237.66  252.39  267.7W   2M.11   Mt.44  319*   339.   310.31
ut* stabilization ponk             1006                                        6
TOTAL COSTS  m00       126.16 2301.69  1348.43  1397.42  144.77 1502.60 2359.04 1616.23  164.41  1743.12  iii.n  1912.36 j6 .   mA1n
WV                     11505.95



REPIDIC OF CIPSI
STINEAST MAST SELEMU ASD DAINME POECT
Table All.2: ECONIC  NALYSIS -- Lowr Tourism growth Scenrio        Paalimnl an  AyIa Map Coqponmnts
Cost Calculetlon for Proposed Contralized Sewerage System. STP, and Effluent Distribution Scheme
1992193 1994  995 199619971996 1999 200  a2m  2812  23    am
1. t*IMI              ----------....    ...         ....    ...       ....    ...      ....    ...       ....    . .... . .... . .... . ....
SeroWirrig. mt/eqpulp.            92      121     266      259      258      161       77
civil orks                      39      146     28?      604    1103    1002        440
Puplng statloe, eaipp                      37      291     14       406      390        6
civi works                              14      133     130       83       68
Tretmnt plant, equlp                      290     266      432      S62
civilworks                      23      354      156     216      374       56
Tertiary tr.& resv, eqip           7      113     11S      172      182       87
civil wrks                      12       66      as      138      134       48
Vehicles an Equipent                              93
Engineering                       81       86      117     122      134      109        8
Plot comections                 2.25     3.90   55.78   55.31    54.33    53.18   53.22   45.09   10.66    11.34    11.04   12.37   12.92
Equip. rehab.
Total Paratimi                  256.25  1232.96  1867.78 2272.31  3310.33  1974.18  584.22   45.09   10.66   11.34    11.4   1M.3T   12.92
11. AYIA  AP
SSewarsllrrlg. mt/equip.          43       58       76     143      167      110       31
civil works                     43       89      135     277      533      419      186                                                                     1
Pwpting stations, equip                   120      110     118      103       47       38
civllt wrks                     17       79      51       50       32       16
Treat_mnt plant, equIp                    177     253      250      242       78 ,
civil works                      9       22      76      100      274      299       31
Tertiary tr.9 rev. equip                           74      118      177       37       38
civit works                              18      60      101      201       25       15
Vehicles and Equipuut                              49
Engineering                       11      117      110      60       66       31       6
Plot comections                 0.68     1.37   24.85   25.32   25.82   26.35   27.25   28.17   29.13   30.1    31.15   32.21    33.31
Equip. rdeab.
Total Ayja Nape                 123.68  681.37  1018.85  1242.32  120.82  106.35  372.25   28.1?   29.13   30.13   3.S    32.21   33.31
111. OTIER COSTS                                                                                                 _
Luod                               120
Interim measures                  1302     674      349
016 Costs: Ayfla  ap              53.1      SS3    S5.3    60.8   173.9   197.3   211.4   217.6          228      226     2B        2       226
OIN Costs: Paraimln               60.2    58.8    70.8    75.3   210.4   242.2   257.4   285.8   302.5   302.5   3S2.5              .5 3.2.5
Total Ne Project Coats              1915    3200    3362    3651    SS1S    3502    1425          577      576      572     s73      5s       sn?
Nw. New project costs: 19062.04
Rewei,o effluent sales            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  139.16   165.01   196.28   204.34   212.76  221.61  226.W   2.56  250.72
Net Project Costs                1914.91  3200.37 3362.08 3650.73 5376.29  3337.02  1228.99  372.32  35.72  35.35   32.42  334.S2   35.61
WV net project costs:  17526.27
ECONNIC RATE OF kEN*
Cost Sawings Attributable
to Proposed Project         306.7728 -1851.93 -1964.65 -2201.96 -4012.84 -1142.96   192.97 1087.76  1172.62  1251 73 13.2  14.24  1S22.0 *
Effluent revwomjs; Ayia N"                                          60.26   72.70   LS.93  U6.87   91.9    n.65   66.31  01AT  1"5S.1
Efftuent revmuis: Paratieni                                         78.90   92.30  110.35  11S.47   120.87  126.56  132.56  1SJ0   145.S
Total Net Project  _e tits    316.772  -1851.93 -1964.6S -2201.95 -3873.68 -977.977 389.2439 129M.093 1315.396 141S.344 UW.7  1U.M I2m.M
ECr"W-IC RATE OF METM:        0.067r



REPIIC OF CIPUSS
SOUThEAST COAST SEUESME A5D OSAINASE PPCJECT
tooe,a Component
Table A11.3: ECnSr IC ANAlYSIS -- 0gme Case Scenario, tarnaca
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996        97       9 1999         2m a1    20              am
,.-    ....     ....  .  ---     ....  .  ....    ....  .  ....    ....  .  ....    ....  .  ....    ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
Sewrs I m_ins, m_t/equip.             48     184      363     690    1114       720     117
civil works                         97     374      738    1399    2262    1463       237
Pspino station, eqaip                 15      61       94      105     318
civit works                         11      56       63      60      125       33
Treatmnt plant, equip                 80     356      897     311
civil works                        105     250      359      95
Tertiary tr.& dist., eq.              69     216       27      87      252      37
civil works                         69     312      187      460     767      396     302
Vehicles and Equipnnt                 15      33       27      38       42       a
Ensinmerine                           42      77       83      96      259      132     121
Land                        100
Plot ct mections                                     1159     614      371     322       30       1o      10       10      is      10
Equip. rehab.
oIN Costs                          120.1   176.9   304.3   421.6   478.9   503.8   502.7   505.9   566.1   S-6.6  S6.a   50S.6
.... ----...... .. .. ..... .. ..     .... . ...     .... . ....  .....    ....    ----.  ....    ----. ....    ----.  ....    ----.  ....
TOTAt COSTS                   100   671.1  209s.9  4301.3  4376.6  5968t.9  3616.8  1309.7   515.9   516.8   516.8   516.8   516.1
ECONONIC RATE OF RETUR  CALCUOULATI                                                                                                                       "
Total project costs         100.0   671.1  2095.9  4301.3  4376.6  5908.9  3616.8  1309.7   515.9   516.6   S16.8   S16.6   516.8                        Go
Benefits, sewer rates       U87.2   853.3  1765.8  1731.3  2170.8  2126.4  2268.1  2226.3  2183.1  218M.I  216113.1  2163.1  21.1
surchrge                                     25.5   222.1   300.9   316.3   420.2   425.7   425.7   425.7   425.7   425.7
effiuent sales                                6.0   162.0   250.0   331.2   351.0   351.6   XI.    351.0   351.0   351.0
Total benefits              a87.2   653.3  1765.8  1762.8  2554.9  2679.3  2915.6  2997.5  2959.8  2989.8  2f99.8  29f.s  2959.8
......                                   ....  .  ....    ....  .  ....     ----.   .. ......... .. .........   .
Net benefits                787.2   182.2  -330.1  -2570.0 -2205.6  -3860.5  -1348.7   916.6  1667.2  166.3  16.3    46.3  166.3
ECOW  IC RATE OF ETRM      0.136393
SENSITIVITY ANLYSIS
A. Cost overrun, lOX            110  73.21 2305.49 4731.43 4814.26 6587.79 3978.48  1440.6?  567.49  5".46  s56.46  S6.48  568.48
Benf Its                  867.2   653.3  176s.8  1731.3  2170.6  2128.4  2268.1  2226.3  2183.1  213.1  216.1  216.1  2103.1
get ben fits              M.2  115.09 -539.69 -3000.13 -2643.46 -4459.39 -1710.38  785.63  1615.61 1614.62  1614.62 14.2  1614.42
EIC                    0.104125
S. Deltay in benfits                           853.3  1765.6  1731.3-  2170.8  2128.4  2268.1  2226.3  2183.1  23    2113.1  21.1
Costs                       100   671.1  2095.9  4301.3  4376.6  5968.9  3616.8  1309.7   SIS.9   516.6   516.8   5164.   516.6
met bew fits               -100  -671.1  -1242.6  -2535.5  -2645.3 -3818.1  -1486.4   958.4  1710.4  U4.3    6.3  16.3  1466.3
ERR                    0.091654
C. Cost wvernm S delay
Costs,                      110  738.21  2305.49 4731.43 4814.26 6587.79 3978.48 1440.67  S67.49  546.4   5. S48  56.AU   568.46
SDnefits                                   853.3  1765.8  1731.3  2170.8  2128.4  2266. 1  2226.3  2163.1  218 U1  2113.1  2t13 . 
Net benefits                110 -73.21 -1452.19 -2965.63 -302.96 -416.99 -150.06  827.43  1658.61  1614.62 1614.42 U114.6U  1614.62        q
EUR                    0.0730650



REPULLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEUERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Larnaca Com;onent
Table A11.4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS -- AIC Calculation for Irrigation Water, Larnaca
Costs of Irrigation Water        1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996    1997    1998       1999    2000      2001     2002     2003
.. .........................   ....   . . . ----  ....     ----     ----.    ....     ----.    ... .    ---      ---      ....  .  ....  . . -.---..
Tertiary tr.& dist., eq.                69      216       27       87      252       37
civil works                           69      312      187      460      767      398      302
Engineering                            9.2     21.3       18     19.7     27.7    24.3    16.8
Equip. rehab.
OZM Costs                               31       24       35       55       93      110      116      116      118      120      121       122
Total Costs                       0    178.2   573.3       267   621.7   1139.7   569.3   434.8         116      118       164      121      122
NPV of Costs, a 9s         3028.633
NPV of Costs, a 6X         3787.482
NPV of Costs, a 12X        2493.196
Irrigation Water Production
Cubic Meters ('000)                                                    50     1350     1500     1670     1840    1950      1950    1950       1950
NPV of Water, 2 91         11686.20
NPV of Water, a 6X         17701.63
NPV of Water, a 12X        8046.376
AIC of Water (C. pounds/cubic meter)
.......................... ................................ .... .
a 91                       0.259163
a 6X                       0.213962
a 12X                      0.309853
OD



- 100 -
Annex 12
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND DRATIAGE PROJECT
Documents in Proiect File
1.    Annual Reports, 1988, 1989, Cyprus Tourism Organization.
2.    Gooarison of the Sewage Treatment Plant Sites and Separate vs. Common
treatment Plant for Avia NaRa and Paralimni, Final Report by Soil and
Water, Ltd., November, 1990.
3.    Feasibility Study and Master Plan for Ayia Napa Sewerage and Drainage,
Final Report. Soil and Water, Ltd., Helsinki, Finland, in association
with Eleftherios Gavrielides, and the Improvement Board of Ayia Napa.
December 1989.
4.    Feasibility Study and Master Plan for Paralimni Sewerage and Drainage,
Final Report. Soil and Water, Ltd., Helsinki, Finland, in association
with Eleftherios Gavrielides, and the Municipality of Paralimni.
November, 1990.
5.    Larnaca Sewerage and Drainage Scheme:  Re-Appraisal Report.  Howard
Humphreys and Partners, Ltd., Leatherhead, U.K., and J. A. Theophilou,
Nicosia, Cyprus.
6.    Larnaca Sewage Scheme: Use of Treated Effluent for Dhromolaxia Proposed
Irrigation Scheme, Preliminary Report. Republic of Cyprus, Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources, Department of Water Development.
October 1985.
7.    Environmental Assessment for the Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage
Project: Larnaca. CyRrus. Barnus Ltd., Environmental Consultants, July
1991.
8.    Environmental Assessment for Paralimni and Ayia Napa Sewerage Pro4ect,
Soil and Water, Ltd., May, 1991.
Documents Filed with Previous Larnaca Sewerage and Draiaaage Loan
Master Plan and Feasibility Report for Stormwater Drainage and Sanitary
Sewerage of Larnaca: Supplementary Report, by Reid Crowther
International Limited, Canada in association with Solon Hadjiminas and
associates, Cyprus, February, 1985.



IBRD 22890R
VOROKLINI
Kellia S.woge
Treroment Works
KELUA
IF 
*                     lAADIPPOU                 s0
t / ~~~~~~~~~~~LEIVADIA afi
ff 4  Larnioco  Bay
SOUTHEAST COAST
SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED SEWERAGE
AND
EFFLUENT DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
FOR LARNACA AREA
-  SEWERAE AREA BOUNDARY'
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
-   SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS
Halci Sultan                                     kW~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAN SEWER AND FORCE MAIN
Tekke Mosque    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~*                  SEWAGE PUMPING STATIONS
o      EFFLUENT RESERVOIR
-!-    EFFLUENT DISTRIBUTION LINES
ac:  ~~~~~~~NN, ~~       EFFLUENT IRRIGATED AREAS
REFUGEE HOUSING ESTATES TO BE
SEWERED UNDER THE PROJECT
3-   3~ ~.~
JULY 1991
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h. C.9 Fi Lin
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL 1991j 



MMD 23037R1
//       3S~~    ~     App~~3mi3
b  cau FW L.
-~~                                  Jl     
SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
(MI      PROPOSED DRAINAGE SYSTEM
FOR LARNACA AREA
DRMNAGE AREA BOUNDARES
SEWERAGE AREA BOUNDARY
t                      ~~~~~~~~DRAJNAGE CHANNELS
-          --DRAJNAGE PIPES
*    *     ~~~SURFACE WATER PUMPING
STATIONS
BUILT-UP AREA
ROADS
q-. SALT LAKE
L    K                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I 20 0  S00 FC000 . TOIODV,V0  ldi
AUGUS1991



I     -                                                              -      a
A          ,         _                                                         47:  t 
.\        I     ' A HER3NIA_
!   l  IjlP24         P1
L _ g j 1 \V\~~~~~~~~~~P3                                                   CYPUS
m I  YI PAALIMNI  \ 5>SOUTHEAST COAST SEWERAGE AND
//r 2                                                          DRAINAGE PROJECT
/Ij6    Proposed Sewerage anid Effluent DCstribution System
For Ayia Napo and PFrormni Areas
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/  3 P8 1°               WASTEAER TREATMENT
P14                      PLANT AREA
/   \L o-X&   \#<                     ~~~~~~~~~PSPf p1  PA _    ,
pla-.-           SEVVER INIES
19                              RESIDENTIAL R)
!  -7                 ~~~~~~~AYIA NAPA      pD                                    UnP20      EFfWE"T   R
-4- ~EFFJENT DISTRIBUTIO)N LJINES
v           /            ---  ~~~~~~~~DISTRICT SOUlDARES
-B JILT - UW AREAS
ha, b.a, ia.aad /Th.W~dd _,W. ~.a,&.a.fr fa,i,aoI                           ,,-,   \-K     0   500  1000  2000  3000
lb,,n Caa,la lb.o d aa.Wa.on. pand a. *.b aa,i  F  C.Ia  a,  iu             _ n 
>~~a lfbs0d T.Wddl' a,d~      y                              cr                       e  f         _         cT dwR
:! S l ~~~~~~~~~~~~.?dr' BC ,_ 7-.2''G7jr  S- j ) 



