Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3400 CY
             (Southeast Coast (Ayia Napa) Sewerage and
                         Drainage Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     AYIA NAPA SEWERAGE BOARD
                      Dated November 7, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3400 CY
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 7, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AYIA NAPA SEWERAGE
BOARD (the Borrower or ANSB).
      WHEREAS (A) Republic of Cyprus (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower and the Paralimni Sewerage Board (PSB) have
entered into an agreement (the PSB-ANSB Agreement) establishing a
joint venture for the purposes of the construction, operation and
maintenance of the facilities under Parts A and B of the Project;
Page  2
      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Council of
Europe Resettlement Fund (the CERF) financing (the CERF Financing)
in an amount equivalent to about five million dollars ($5,000,000)
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
           "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be incon-
      sistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the
      Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Sewerage and Drainage Law" means the Guarantor's
Sewerage and Drainage Law, dated January 8, 1971, as amended from
time to time;
      (b)   "ANSB Order" means Order No. 35,327, dated March 28,
1991, by which the Guarantor's Council of Ministers established the
Borrower;
      (c)   "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31; and
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of six million dollars ($6,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Page  3
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
Page  4
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, engineering, public utility and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the fore-
going, the Borrower shall employ, on a schedule satisfactory to the
Bank, staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and experience
are satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, on environmental mitigation and monitor-
ing.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by completion of the
construction of the effluent reuse scheme under Part B of the
Project or December 31, 1994, whichever is earlier, enter into the
agreement with the Guarantor referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of the
Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
PSB-ANSB Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the PSB-ANSB Agreement or any
provision thereof.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound financial, engineering,
public utility and environmental practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Financial and Other Covenants
Page  5
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements) and the records
                   and accounts for the Special Account for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
                   priate auditing principles consistently applied,
                   by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so audit-
                   ed, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                   this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                   such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1991, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than twenty percent (20%) of the annual
average of the Borrower's capital expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that year and the two next following fiscal
years.
      (b)   For purposes of fulfilling the requirements set out in
paragraph (a) of this Section the Borrower shall, on the basis of
forecasts satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank, starting in
fiscal year 1992, carry out an annual review of the adequacy of its
rates and charges in respect of the following fiscal year and the
next following two fiscal years and, at least six months before the
beginning of the following fiscal year, furnish to the Bank for its
review and comment its proposed budget and proposed rates and
Page  6
charges for such fiscal year, together with financial projections
for the next following two fiscal years.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Bor-
rower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates or
charges) in order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations, consumer deposits
                         and consumer contributions in aid of
                         construction, net non-operating income and
                         any reduction in working capital other
                         than cash; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                         tions, including administration, adequate
                         maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu
                         of taxes (excluding provision for depreci-
                         ation and other non-cash operating charg-
                         es), debt service requirements, all cash
                         dividends and other cash distributions of
                         surplus, increase in working capital other
                         than cash and other cash outflows other
                         than capital expenditures.
            (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
            (iii)  The term "working capital other than cash" means
                   the difference between current assets, excluding
                   cash and current liabilities, at the end of each
                   fiscal year.
             (iv)  The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                   all assets other than cash which could in the
                   ordinary course of business be converted into
                   cash within twelve months, including accounts
                   receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                   and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                   operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
            (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all liabil-
                   ities which will become due and payable or could
                   under circumstances then existing be called for
                   payment within twelve months, including accounts
                   payable, customer advances, debt service re-
                   quirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
                   and dividends.
           (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including sink-
                   ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
                   other charges on, debt.
          (vii)    The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
                   ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                   including interest charged to construction,
Page  7
                   related to operations, excluding capital expen-
                   ditures under Part B of the Project for the
                   effluent reuse scheme.
         (viii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, except debt to be incurred
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement or Section 2.02 (a) of
the Guarantee Agreement, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for
the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.2 times
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including
the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                   Borrower maturing by its terms more than one
                   year after the date on which it is originally
                   incurred.
           (ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                   loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                   providing for such debt or for the modification
                   of its terms of payment on the date of such
                   contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                   a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                   providing for such guarantee has been entered
                   into.
          (iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
                   between:
                   (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                         related to operations adjusted to take
                         account of the Borrower's rates in effect
                         at the time of the incurrence of debt even
                         though they were not in effect during the
                         twelve-month period to which such revenues
                         relate and net non-operating income; and
                   (B)   the sum of all expenses related to opera-
                         tions, including administration, adequate
                         maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                         taxes, but excluding provision for depre-
                         ciation, other non-cash operating charges
                         and interest and other charges on debt.
            (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                   difference between:
                   (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                         related to operations; and
                   (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                         lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                         of revenues in (A) above.
            (v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                   aggregate amount of repayments (including sink-
Page  8
                   ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
                   other charges on, debt.
            (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
                   shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
                   currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
                   another currency, such valuation shall be made
                   on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
                   exchange at which such other currency is, at the
                   time of such valuation, obtainable for the
                   purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
                   absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
                   exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 5.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by June 30, 1994, furnish to the Bank for review and
comment a proposed rate structure, which rate structure shall
include a surcharge for water consumption and a charge, referred to
in Section 2.03 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement, for irrigation water
resulting from the reuse of treated effluent;
      (b)   by December 31, 1994, take all measures necessary to
adopt such rate structure as agreed with the Bank; and
      (c)   by December 31, 1994, adopt procedures, satisfactory to
the Bank, for billing and collecting: (i) the surcharge for water
consumption; and (ii) the charge for irrigation water resulting from
the reuse of treated effluent.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Sewerage and Drainage Law, the ANSB Order or any
other law or regulation shall have been amended, suspended or
abrogated so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or
financial condition of the Borrower or the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of the CERF Financing or any
                         other loan or grant made for the financing
                         of the Project shall have been suspended,
                         cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                         part, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Bank that: (A) such sus- pension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under the CERF Financing;
                   and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                   available to the Borrower from other sources on
                   terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
                   tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
Page  9
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (b) (ii) of said Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Guarantor has approved the Borrower's sewer rates as
agreed with the Bank;
      (b)   the Borrower has made arrangements with the CERF or has
made other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the financing
for the Project referred to in Recital (D) to this Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has adopted procedures, satisfactory to the
Bank, for billing and collecting sewer charges;
      (d)   the Borrower has entered into an agreement with the
Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to which the Borrower
shall lease from the Guarantor the land required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities under the Project; and
      (e)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Paralimni
Sewerage Board for the Southeast Coast (Paralimni) Sewerage and
Drainage Project have been fulfilled, other than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the PSB-ANSB Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the agreement referred to in Section 7.01 (d) of
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 7.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                          ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
Page  10
                   INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For the Borrower:
            Ayia Napa Sewerage Board
            Ayia Napa
            Republic of Cyprus
            Rapifax:
              22608
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/  W. Wapenhans
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                         AYIA NAPA SEWERAGE BOARD
                         By /s/ M. Sherifis
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                4,600,000        31%
(2) Goods                        100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures;
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3) Engineering,                 900,000        100%
    technical
    assistance
    and training
Page  11
(4) Unallocated                  400,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                 6,000,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $450,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1,
1990.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to provide a safe,
reliable system for the disposal of domestic and commercial waste
water; (ii) to improve environmental conditions and management of
scarce water resources; and (iii) to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Borrower.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Sewerage
      Construction, pursuant to the PSB-ANSB Agreement, of: (1) a
sewerage system, including a sewage collection network, consisting
of laterals and main sewers, a collector sewer, and pumping
stations; and (2) a sewage treatment plant of about 26,000 m3/day
capacity.
Part B:     Effluent Reuse Scheme
      Tertiary treatment and construction of a storage reservoir and
distribution system for treated effluent pursuant to the PSB-ANSB
Agreement.
Part C:     Consultant Services and Training
(1)   Consultant services and training to strengthen the staff of
the Borrower in the operation and maintenance of the Borrower's
facilities.
                            *    *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
      On each May 1 and November 1
Page  12
            beginning May 1, 1997
            through   November 1, 2006             300,000
_____________________________
*     The figure in this column represents the dollar equivalent
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum) appli-
                                    cable to the Loan on the day of
                                    prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity
More than thirteen years before                 1.00
      maturity
                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for contracts for works, including supply and
installation contracts, to be procured pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph A.1 above shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph
2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cyprus may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
Page  13
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to the first contract for works procured
through the procedures described in Part C hereof, the procedures
set forth in paragraph 2 (a) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
      (c)   With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
1 (a) above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (c) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in: (a) engineering design,
bid evaluation and construction supervision; and (b) carrying out
the training program under Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ management and engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  14
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                  vals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                  graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  15
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the dateof such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
