Documen of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C/'.  /Ž, .s-C-- t'
Report No. P-4436-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 6.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR AN
ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 22, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may nog otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BURUNDI
Economic and Public Enterprise ManaRement Project
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Burundi Franc (FBU)
USS 1.00        =  FBU 120.7 (annual average 1956)
SDR 1.00        =  $1.19 (December 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 square miles
1 square meter (m2)        =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)         =  1.13 cubic yards
1 metric ton (ton)         =  2,204 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Burundi : January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
(ii)
BURUNDI
Economic and Public Enterprise Management Project
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEI                Extraordinary (Investment) Budget
BNDE               National. Economic Development Bank
BO                 Ordinary (Current) Budget
BRB                Bank of the Republic of Burundi
CADEBU             Burundi Savings Bank
CEM                Country Economic Memorandum
CFP                Public Administration Institute
CGPE               Public Enterprises Commission
CEO                Chief Executive Officer
CURDES             Center for Economic Research
DGPA               General Directorate for Agricultural Planning
EDI                Economic Development Institute
EPA                Administrative Enterprise
EPIC               Commercial and Industrial Enterprise
IF                 Intervention Fund
IMF                International Monetary Fund
ONAPHA             National Pharmaceutical Office
ONATEL             Burundi National Telecommunications Office
OTRABU             Barundi Transporation Office
OTRACO             Burundi Public Transport Office
NATCAP             National Technical Cooperation Assessment Program
NGO                Non-Government Organization
PE                 Public Enterprise
PEP                Public Expenditure Program
PIP                Public Investment Program
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
R                  Rgie
SAL                Structural Adjustment Lending
SCEP               Service in charge of Public Enterprises
SC                 Concessionary Corporation
SE                 Public Corporation
SEM                Mixed Public-Private ownership Corporation
SNES               National Statistics Service
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
SRD                Regional Development Company
T.A.               Technical Assistance
UNDTCD             United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for
Development
VERRUNDI           Burundi Glassworks
This documert has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iii)
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
Economic and Public Enterprise Management Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:     Government of Burundi
Implementing
Agencies:     National Service in Charge of Public Enterprises
(SCEP) and Ministry of Planning
IDA Credit
amount:       SDR 6.0 million (USS 7.5 million)
Terms:        Standard IDA Terms
Project
Description:  The project finances assistance to:
(a) launch the operations of the National Service in Charge
of Public Enterprises (PEs), with emphasis on (i) policy
studies and application of criteria for Government
involvement in the PE sector; (ii) assessment and
monitoring of P.E. sector performance; (iiI) improvement
of the institutional framework for PEs including design
and implementation of a performance incentive system;
(iv) staff and management training; and (v) studies for
the rehabilitation of particular PEs ($ 4.4 million);
(b) develop Government's planning and project appraisal
capabilities, provide related training, and carry out
the identification, preparation and execution of
sectoral and preinvestment studies ($ 3.4 million); and
(c) design a unified budget system in the Ministry of
Finance and provide related training ($ 0.2 million).
Benefits:     The project would support achievement of the objectives of
the SAL approved in FY 86 by strengthening the oversight of
PEs, and the key economic management ministries. Major
benefits should be implementation of already agreed policy
reforms in the PE sector to make the sector leaner and more
efficient, including launching of a PE rehabilitation and
divestiture program. The project would also improve
arrangements for preparation of sector development strategies
and rational allocation of resources according to consistent
criteria.
Risks:        The main risks are: a) possible resistance of existing vested
interests against proposed reforms or resistance to change
within Government institutions and PEs; and b) lack of
national capabilities for managing PEs and their oversight
and in planning. These risks are mitigated through: a)
establishment of a Consultative Committee of senior public



(Uv)
and private officials for the PE sector and a consultative
process in PlanninglProgramminglBudgeting matters which will
promote the appropriate expression of the technical
ministries' interest in these matters; b) systematic
provision of staff training; and c) design of the serwices of
consultants so as to promote learning by doing among national
staff.
Estimated Costl               Local          Foreign          Total
(in US$ million)
SCEP component2                1.3             3.1             4.4
Planning component             0.7             2.7             3.4
Finance component              0.05            0.1             0.2
TOTAL BASE COST3       2.1             5.9            8.0
Contingencies                  0.1             0.2             0.3
TOTAL PROJECT COS'Y      2.2             6.1             8.3
(27%)           (73%)          (100%)
Financing Plan                Goverment        IDA            Total
SCEP component                 0.4              4.1            4.5
Planning component             0.4              3.2            3.6
Finance component              0.01             0.2            0.2
TOTAL3                 0.8              7.5           8.3
(10%)           (90%)          (100%)
Disbursemeats
IDA FY              1987      1988       1989      1990       1991       1992
Annual               0.3        1.5      -2.0        2.0       1.5        0.2
Cumulative           0.3       1.8        3.8       5.8        7.3        7.5
Rate of Return: N/A
Staff Appraisal Report: No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared for this project.
1/ All items would be exempt from import duties and local taxes.
2/ Including refinancing of a US$ 0.5 million advance from the PFF
(P-398-BU)
31 Figures in totals have been rounded.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOtHENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURPNDI
FOR AN ECONOMIC AED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE UMNAGEMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR
6.0 million (US$ 7.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance
technical assistance for the improvement of Economic and Public Enterprise
Management in Burundi.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Introduction
1.       An economic report entitled "Burundi Economic Memorandum"
(4784-BU) was distributed in December 1984. Its assessment of the
country's economic prospects has been updated by recent Bank missions (May
and December 1985) and is reflected in the following paragraphs.
B. Background
2.       With a per capita income of USS 240 (1984 Atlas), Burundi is one
of the poorest countries in the world. The country is landlocked, small in
size, and densely populated, with no significant natural resources other
than relatively fertile agricultural land. Social indicators compare with
those of the poorest African countries. Population growth (2.9 percent per
annum projected for the 1980-2000 period) is high. The society is mainly
rural, as only about 5 percent of the population live in the few urban
centers. Despite the high demographic pressure on already constrained
land, migration to the urban centers has been limited, urban growth having
averaged about 5 percent a year. Although there are considerable regional
differences in income and large uirban-rural disparities, there is little
absolute poverty in the sense that most people have access to basic shelter
and nutrition. School enrollment has expanded, but the adult literacy rate
remains low - about 30 percent.
3.       Agriculture is the dominant economic sector, contributing 60
percent of GDP and 85 percent of both employment and exports. Burundi is
one of the few African countries self-sufficient in food (at least for the
most popular staples). The industrial sector (including energy and
construction) accounts for about 15 percent of GDP and only 7 percent of
exports. The private sector, while small in terms of total fixed
investment (15 percent), plays the major role in agricultural production
and trade. The public sector is important in manufacturing, energy and
infrastructure, and the parastatal sector accounts for half of formal
employment. One obstacle to Burundi's development is its landlocked



- 2 -
situation, which makes the country vulnerable to the transportation
conditions of neighboring countries. Although progress has been made in
recent years to improve physical facilities and to simplify transit
formalities, transportation costs to and from the Indian Ocean are very
high. Passage through neighboring countries is not reliably secure (as
occurred recently because of civil war in Uganda), and disruptions in
transport can cause serious domestic shortages and shortfalls in export
revenues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
4.       The history of Bank Group operations in Burundi closely follows
the country's political and economic evolution since independence in 1962.
During the political instmbility of the 1962-76 period, IDA operations were
limited to coffee production, highways and water supply. After 1976, with
the period of increased political stability, lending expanded rapidly,
notably in agriculture and highways as well as in new sectors: fisheries,
forestry, education, industry and rural development. Financing was also
provided to improve the telecommunications and power network, explore the
feasibility of exploiting nickel deposits, strengthening the capacity of
the Ministry of Planning and improve the management of urban services in
Bujumbura. The effects of a decline in international aid programs and
domestic financial constraints led to a slowdown in project lending in
FY82-84 which, however, was accompanied by a substantial increase in
economic and sector work to assist the Government in the definition of
policies and to provide the basis for the selection of priority projects.
As a result of these efforts, IDA lending increased in FY85 and FY86 and a
proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, the first policy-based IDA operation
in Burundi, was approved in May 1986.
5.       As of September 30, 1986, Burundi had received one loan and 27
credits, totalling US$ 278.6 million, of which one loan and 14 credits,
totalling US$ 97.8 million had been totally disbursed. Agriculture
accounts for 28.2 percent of total commitments; transport, power and water
supply together for about 41.1 percent; and education, Public Sector
management, local construction, mining and the structural adjustment
program for the remaining 30.7 percent.
A. Country assistance strategy
6.       IDA's strategy is to continue to assist the Government in
developing and implementing a realistic medium-term adjustment program
while pursuing a long-term development strategy addressing the country's
structural constraints. Our policy dialogue will be pursued through a
series of Structural Adjustment Operations. At the same time, IDA will
continue to support long-term efforts to develop human resources, increase
agriculture production, and develop and maintain infrastructure which will
have a significant long-term impact on production. Priority has been given
to the design and implementation of a program to control population growth.
Given the broad development needs of Burundi and the need to strengthen the
management capacity of the Burundian administration, it is important that
the Bank remain active in the main sectors of the economy.



- 3 -
7.       In the agriculture sector, the projects are geared to intensify
coffee production and quality (Ngozi, Kirimiro Projects), develop technical
packages and extension services to intensify and diversify fooderop
production (planned Agriculture Huyinga, FYB7, and Agricultural Services,
FY89), protect and encourage more efficient use of land (Second Forestry
Project, FY86), and improve water supply (FY86). In human resources,
priority is given to the design of a program to control population growth
through a planned Health and Population Project (FY88), and continuing
assistance to primary and basic secondary education and training (Third and
proposed Fourth Education Projects, FY83 and FYB8), as well as technical
assistance to public sector management (Third Technical Assistance Project,
FY84). Under the First Urban Project, the Bank has helped Government to
establish a new urban policy, including cost recovery, while the recently
identified Secondary Centers Projects will assist in improving communal
organizatiQn and finance, promote artisas, and generate off-farm
employment in rural areas. The Rural Water Supply Project will establish a
new system of cost recovery for rural water supply systems. In the
transport and communications sector, Bank projects will contribute to
lowering the transportation cost of products to and within Burundi and to
developing the communications network, in partlcular in rural areas
(Highways IV Project, FY 85, and Telecommunications Projects, FY80 and
FY87). Finally, in the energy sector, projects and sector work are
assisting actions in key areas of forestry sector management, reduction of
the cost of oil imports, and improvement in the power transmission network
and power planning (Power Project, FY85).
B. Project implementation
8.       Project performance is, on the whole satisfactory.  The
disbursement rate of 27 percent in FY82-84 is above the average for
countries of the Eastern and Southern Africa Region. Physical
implementation of infrastructure projects or components (roads, schools,
coffee stations, telecommunications) has been satisfactory. In the
directly productive sectors the record is mixed. While agricultural
projects had significant success in increasing production and quality of
coffee, as well as forest areas, they had a limited impact on increasing
food crop production because of the absence of technical packages which
could be readily adopted by farmers and the lack of a coherent policy on
agricultural inputs and services. The DFC project had mixed results in
developing a pipeline of small enterprise projects in the industrial
sector, partly due to the weak management of the development bank.
Operation of the glass container project financed by IFC was affected by an
overvalued exchange rate and the heavy debt service of the IFC loan, which
led to high operating costs and made it difficult for the products to
compete in domestic and external markets. The lack of success of the
fisheries project was due to its complexity in relation to the
institutional and management capacity of the implementing agency.
9.       The impact of IDA projects on institutional development has been
slow but on the whole positive. In some projects (e.g., coffee), the
presence of an effective technical assistance team led to a successful
project implementation, but it took longer to strengthen the capacity of
the local institutions. In education and telecommunications projects, the



- 4 -
institutional capacity efforts have been successful, as was the Third
Technical Assistance Project, which strengthened the institutional capacity
of the Planning and Agriculture Ministries. In most cases, IDA-financed
projects have provided a useful framework for policy decisions. For
example, discussions under the education projects led, inter alia, to the
adoption of cost savings and cost-recovery schemes, a more equitable
distribution of school facilities, reorganization of secondary education,
and development of non-formal education for adults. The Urban Project has
accomplished major changes in urban programs over the past several years
including the lifting of rent ceilings and the adoption of cost-recovery
schemes.
10.      In addition to the policy dialogue conducted under the SAL, the
FY87 economic work includes a study on employment generation with a
particular focus on rural areas, a study to assess manpower needs, a
Financial Sector Study, a Transport Sector Study, and a CEM (FY87) which
will assess long-term socio-economic development issues and prospects, with
emphasis on the agricultural sector. Sector work is programmed to cover
most sectors as support of our lending operations.
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Technical Assistance
11.      Manpower limitations are a serious constraint on Burundi's
development. At higher levels of responsibility, managers have seldom been
trained for the tasks they are performing and many lack professional
experience, as they are hired immediately after graduation. On the job
training suffers from the scarcity of experienced managers. At lower
levels, severe shortages exist for white-collar positions (mid-level
managers, accountants, etc.) and for skilled craftsmen (building trades,
mechanics, etc.). inadequacies and shortages affect all sectors of the
economy, but they are particularly felt in the public sector where low
salaries do not attract the most skilled or experienced Burundians. Given
the importance of the public sector in the country's economy, the manpower
situation contributes to Burundi's continued dependency on expatriate
skills.
12.      In 1985, bilateral donors accounted for about 62 percent of
technical assistance grants amounting to about US$72 million, the principal
donors being Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the
United States. The UN system was the main multilateral donor (8 percent
for the UNDP and 7 percent for other UN agencies), while NGO's accounted
for 13 percent and other multilateral donors for the remaining 10 percent.
Technical assistance (TA) is provided in all sectors: education,
agriculture, and natural resources being the main recipients. Like other
donors, IDA includes technical assistance and training components in the
projects it finances. In addition, IDA's assistance has also been provided
through three free-standing technical assistance prcjects. These projects
have striven to ensure the performance of essential planning and
programming functions, and to strengthen the institutions responsible for
such functions.



-5-
B. Public Management
13.      Burundi's planning system is highly centralized, with most
macroeconomic and sector planning being undertaken by the Ministry of
Planning. The latter was set up with international assistance (financing
from UNDP, IDA, France and Germany) about 10 years ago. The system
functions reasonably well, but its key deficiencies are lack of sector
strategies, limited contribution of line ministries in the planning
process, and poor articulation with the budgeting process. Also the number
of national staff performing substantive planning activities is still quite
limited (17 professionals out of a total of 26 in the Planning Ministry).
Regarding the budget system, the main issues are the lack of coordination
between the Planning and Finance Ministries in the preparation and
management of the Public Expenditures Program and the arbitrary allocation
of resources between the "ordinary (current) and "extraordinary"
(investment) budgets. Statistical capabilitier need to be improved in
order to prepare adequate data for economic management. In the early
1980's, Burundi became ccncerned with the overall impact of its Public
Enterprises (PEs) on the economy and decided to create an oversight agency
to improve management of the PE sector. The enabling legislation was
passed but implementation was delayed until 1986. Regarding economic and
institutional policy analysis, there is a harmonious relationship between
Government and two key institutions, which often are consulted or perform
studies commissioned by Government, the Faculty of Economics of the
University of Burundi, and particularly its Institute of Economic Research
(CURDES); and the Public Administration Institute (C.F.P.), which organized
a seminar on the management of PEs in June 1986 and published a number of
analytical papers on the legal structure of the system (with UNDTCD
support). Implementation of the proposed project should reinforce this
relationship and promote a similar one with the newly established Institute
of Management. It is also expected that Government will organize (with EDI
assistance) a national seminar on the management of TA thus reinforcing the
outcome of UNDP's sponsored NATCAP (Nationa] Technical Cooperation
Assessment Program) launched in 1986.
C. Previous IDA Technical Assistance
First, Second and Third Technical Assistance Projects
14.      When IDA-financed technical assistance started in 1976, the
shortage of trained nationals in all sectors was severe, and the volume of
IDA operations was low (5 credits by March 1976). Consequently, the First
Technical Assistance credit tried to remedy the shortage of skills and to
provide assistance to help identify feasible projects. Activities financed
under the First, Second and Third Technical Assistance Credits (Credits
613-BU, US$ 1.5 million credit of March 19, 1976; 917-BU, USS 2.5 million
credit of May 24, 1979 and 1456-BU, US$ 5.1 million credit of March 1984)
covered a broad range, including planning, statistics, peat development,
nickel development, agriculture, and financial institutions. By responding
to pressing needs, Bank Group technical assistance has proven useful and is
appreciated by the Government. In general, the objectives assigned to the
projects have been met, although components have had varied success. The
review below summarizes the experience gained under the Association's first
three credits.



I. Assistance to the Ministry of Planning
15.      Macroeconomic Planning.  The first two credits financed T.A. in
the Ministry of Planning from 1976 to 1982. Under these projects, the main
accomplishments were to set up a macroeconomic framework for planning
activities and economic modelling. With thIs assistance, the Ministry of
Planning established a simple, but effective, computerized system for
monitoring investments in development projects in all sectors of the
economy. This, as well as other relevant information, serves as input to a
macroeconomic model for Burundi which now seems well established. Bank
Group assistance to the Ministry of Planning is now concentrated on project
monitoring and execution, and the third credit is financing a project
monitoring specialist who is developing a system to link project selection
and investment programming.
16.      Statistics.  Besides the T.A. mentioned above, the first two
technical assistance credits also financed T.A. to the statistical section
of the Ministry of Planning which helped organize data collection, develop
price indices, prepare national accounts, and launch a number of surveys
(industrial and commercial surveys; household consumption survey; energy
survey; road t-affic; and fire-wood consumption surveys). The projects
also helped reorganize statistical services into an independent entity
(Service National des Etudes et Statistiques, SNES) which became autonomous
in August 1980, with the Ministry of Planning as its parent ministry. This
reorganization contributed to improving the flexibility of SNES in
design'ng its work program and in responding to users' requests, thus
incre:.sing its effectiveness. In spite of these achievements, the SNES
still needs assistance co pursue on-going efforts and in particular in the
field of national accounts.
17.      The Third Technical Assistance Credit also financed a
Documentation Center which is now under construction and the services of a
Documentalist.
II. Assistance to Agricultural Planning
18.      This assistance was provided under the Second and Third Technical
Assistance Credits through two channels: the agricultural statistics
division of SNES, and the Directorate General for Agricultural Planning
(DGPA) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. This assistance
proved to be a major contribution in the setting up of a system of
continuous agricultural surveys and the training of national staff. The
overall result is a reliable team of statisticians and agricultural
planners, able to follow-up on the initial effort.
III. Other Assistance
19.      The First, Second and Third Technical Assistance Credits also
financed a number of feasibility and sector studies. In particular, to
help the Government design a program of action for the parastatal sector,
the Association financed an in-depth review of selected public enterprises.
This helped highlight the major issues, and identify a series of



institutional and financial measures needed to start addressing them. The
review also paved the way for preparation of the measures agreed to under
the SAL for restructuring the parastatal sector so as to streamline it and
improve Its performance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Background
20.      During the preparation and appraisal of SAL I, IDA and the
Government carried out a major review of economic and management problems.
As a result, Government decided to launch a program aimed at strengthening
its public sector management by (i) rationalizing resource allocatic'l; (ii)
improving public expenditure management; (iii) initiating a public
enterprise reform; (iv) implementing an agriculture sector action program;
and (v) promoting trade and industrial reforms.
21.      Concerning the Public Enterprise (PE) sector, IDA and Government
agreed during the SAL I negotiations on the following policy: (i)
Government participation will be limited to those cases which require
public investment either because they are vital public services or because
strategic sectors are involved; and (ii) Government will endeavor to
maximize the contribution of PEs to GDP by ensuring that they operate
efficiently. The agreed-upon strategy to achieve this policy includes: (i)
development of clear objectives for the PEa; (ii) rehabilitation of PEs
whose medium-term economic profitability is demonstrated; (iii)
restructuring the PE sector; (iv) limitation of the establishment of new
PEs to those sectors where private investors are not forthcoming and those
enterprises whose economic profitability is demonstrated; (v) establishment
of systems to enable Government to follow-up the development and
performance of PEs; (vi) providing a sound fiaancial structure and
managerial autonomy for the PE; and (vii) ensuring that all commercial PEs
can generate profits which justify public investment, and are at least able
to meet on their own their debt servicing obligations. To carry out the
above policy and oversee the PE sector, Government has decided to create a
National Service in charge of the PE sector (SCEP).
22.      Concerning the implementation of the macro-economic reforms
proposed in the SAL I, it was agreed that the PIP/PEP and the budget should
become more efficient tools of macro-economic management. Government
agteed on the need to improve existing institutional capacity of the
Planning/Programming/Budgeting System. The Ministries of Finance and of
Planning would be strengthened to improve the Public Accounting System and
also to prepare a Public Expenditure Program and a unified budget while the
planning system would be strengthened by improving its capacity to prepare
and appraise investment projects. To this end Government would: (i)
reinforce the Planning Directorate of the Planning Ministry to carry out
project appraisal; (ii) reinforce sectoral units in the technical
ministries responsible for the major share of public investments; and (iii)
prepare a three-year Public Expenditure Program compatible with the
country's debt management capacity. Government has begun implementing the
program but still needs to work out detailed institutional arrangements for
its implementation, in particular to ensure the long term sustainability of
any improvements.



- 8 -
23.      While the structural adjustment program is to be implemented by
various Government departments and agencies involved in the reform process
it will be coordinated by the Planning Ministry. It is predicated on an
appropriate institutional underpinning, the design, development, and
implementation of which is the purpose of the proposed "Economic and Public
Enterprises Management" project.
24.      Based on the results of the SAL discussions, Government requested
IDA financing for a TA project in April 1986; preparation of the project
started in May 1986 and appraisal took place in November 1986.
Negotiations were held in Washington from March 30 to April 2, 1987
inclusive. Mr. Mathias Sinamenye, Minister of Planning, led the Burundian
delegation. The project's main features are highlighted in the Credit and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report. Supplementary project
data are summarized in Annex III.
B. Project Objectives
25.      Consistent with IDA's long term strategy of reinforcing public
sector management under its first three TA credits, the project's main
objective is to help Government implement its structural adjustment program
agreed with IDA under the first Structural Adjustment Credit (see
President's Report No. P-4250-BU), by making the management of the public
sector more efficient.
26.      This would entail: (a) helping Government to streamline its PE
sector and make its management more efficient by defining an appropriate
institutional framework for GovernmentlPublic Enterprises relationships;
(b) strengthening the existing planning system, by developing an
institutional framework for better defining sectoral development policies
and strategie;, setting priorities to guide resource allocation, and
ensuring conz'stency between the PIPJPEP and the National Development Plan;
(c) continuing to improve the quality of projects submitted for external
financing; and (d) reinforcing Government capabilities for budget
preparation and execution.
27.      To achieve these long term goals, the project's immediate
objectives are: (a) to improve the management of the Public Enterprise
Sector by helping set up and launch operations of the newly created Public
Enterprise Service (SCEP), which would be a lean agency under the
Presidency responsible for strategic analysis of the PE sector and
monitoring of its performance; (b) to improve sectoral and project work,
statistical work and the planning-programming and budgeting functions in
the Ministry of Planning and technical ministries; and (c) to improve the
Public Expenditure Program process in the Finance Ministry.
C. Project Description
28.      To meet these objectives the project would finance the necessary
institutional design and implementation assistance, logistical support,
training, and incremental operating costs. The project would consist of
three components corresponding to each of the above objectives with the PE
component as the main focus of the project.



- 9 -
29.      The project would help to strengthen:
I. The National Service in charge of Public Enterprises (SCEP)
The project would provide assistance to launch SCEP operations
with particular emphasis on: (a) policy studies and application of criteria
for Government involvement in the PE sector; (b) assessment and monitoring
of P.E. sector performance; (c) improvement of the institutional framework
for PEs including design and implementation of a performance incentive
system; (d) staff and management training; and (e) studies for the
rehabilitation of particular PEs.
This component would finance about 187 staff months of technical
assistance and 42 staff months of training and related programs over a
three-year period plus the necessary equipment, vehicles and operational
support for the SCEP for an approximate cost of $ 4.5 million.
II. The Planning System
30.      a. Ministry of Planning (Ministere a la Presidence, charge du
Plan). The project would:
(a) assist in carrying out the identification, preparation and
execution of sectoral and preinvestment studies;
(b) strengthen project appraisal activities to ensure uniformity
of criteria applied in project appraisal;
(c) strengthen the Public Investment program process; and
(d) support a training program for the Ministry's staff.
b. Sectoral Planning Units. The project would:
(a) strengthen project preparation and appraisal capacities in
the sectoral units in the Ministries of Agriculture,
Education and Health;
(b) help progressively reinforce sectoral units in other
technical ministries (Industry, Transportation, Rural
Development, Energy, Mines);
(c) design and implement an inter-sectoral review process for
investment decisions.
c. National Statistics Service (SNES). The project would finance
the continuation of T.A. provided under Cr. 1456-BU, with emphasis on a
staff training program.
The estimated cost of the Planning component over a two-year
period is $ 3.4 million for about 68 staff months of technical assistance
and 18 staff months of training plus 4 vehicles and equipment and 143 staff
months of specialized consultant services.



- 10 -
III. Assistance to the Ministry of Finance
31.      The project would finance about 10 staff months of short term
technical assistance:
(a)  to help the Interministerial Committee set up by Government,
in the design and implementation of a unified budget system
and to follow up on the Public Expenditure Program (PEP) and
assess its financial and economic impact;
(b) to support a training program for the staff.
The estimated cost for this component over a two-year period is
$0.2 million.
D. Detailed Features
I. The Public Enterprise Component
32. Diagnosis. The Government of Burundi owns and operates about sixty
PEs which are engaged in a wide variety of industrial, commercial and
service activities. While PEs account for about 5 percent of the GDP, they
provide about half of formal employment and the same proportion of the
industrial value added.
33.      Government has 1 An channelling considerable amounts of financial
resources to these enterpL;.ses, but the PE sector as a whole does not
perform satisfactorily, with many enterprises operating below capacity,
incurring substantial operating losses, unable to contribute to their own
investment plans or to service their own debts. According to preparatory
studies made for the SAL, from 1982 to 1984 capital transfers were used for
about 45 percent of the total investment needs of the PEs. In addition,
Government was paying most of the debt service of the PEs, amounting to one
quarter of public debt.  Furthermore, data on commercial bank lending to
PEs indicates that 27 percent of domestic and external short term loans and
15 percent of medium and long term loans were used to meet the financial
needs of the industrial and commercial PEs (EPIC) and those involved in
transportation and housing. Since 1985, financial support from the
Government to these PEs has been severely cut, due to the tight public
finance situation that Burundi faces. Today the burden of these PEs on the
Government budget is much smaller than in the past but their poor economic
performance is still a major economic management issue: a recent study
shows that 4 of these enterprises are on the verge of bankruptcy, 15 are
suffering substantial losses, 12 have negative cash-flows and 4 have
negative equity.
34.      These problems originate from a variety of causes : a) unsound
original or subsequent investment decisions; b) inappropriate macroeconomic
policies in the areas of credit, employment, pricing, taxation and trade;
and c) lack of financial discipline and a weak institutional framewotk as
detailed below.



- 11 -
35.      PEs suffer from severe problems of management and organization,
because of weak Boards of Directors, occasional external interference in
their management and a highly centralized decision-making process taking
place outside the control of management and thus diluting its
accountability. In fact, Boards are usually chaired by the "tutelle"
ministries and thus are used more as a channel for Ministers to express
their views rather than as a deliberating body to review key PE management
proposals.
36.      Some of these problems originate from the shortcomings in the
legal framework governing the PE sector: In particular, the legal
responsabilities of the 'tutelle" ministries, Boards and PE managers
(CEO's) are not clearly defined and the legal statutes of PEs are too
numerous, clouding the issue of accountability and limiting the autonomy of
PE management. At the present time, Government's holdings in PEs fall into
three categories: (i) Commercial and Industrial (Etablissements Publics i
caractere Industriel et Commercial, EPIC); (ii) Public Corporations
(Soci&ts de droit public (SDP)); and (iii) Mixed Public-Private Ownership
(Societes d'Economie Mixte, SEM).1
37.      In addition, too many different bodies are supervising various
aspects of PE operations. Accountability and management of PEs are both
badly defined. The "tutelle' ministry along with the Ministry of Finance
and the Ministry of Planning supervise PEs but each ministry handles
supervision differently, without a comprehensive and clearly defined set of
objectives.
38. Improvement Program. While a series of economic reforms are being
undertaken by Government as part of the SAL (para. 20), which should
improve the macroeconomic framework for PEs, and while IDA is supporting
improvement of individual PEs (ONATEL) through its lending operations to
the related sectors, SCEP would be the centerpiece of the institutional
reform measures in the PE sector. SCEP has already been set up as an agency
under the Presidency, to be staffed with up to 10 national professional
staff, and organized into 4 units (policy, operations, administrative and
legal). Its objective is to oversee the PE sector as a whole (policy and
strategic analysis, clarification and monitoring of institutional
relationships between gevernment and PEs, monitoring of performance of
particular PEs and advice on measures for their improvement, and the
design, coordination and financing of training for PEs). These functions,
which are not being performed (or performed adequately) at the present are
described in Annex IV. SCEP would be advised by a consultative committee
composed of senior Government and private sector officials. During
negotiations Government confirmed its agreement to these arrangements and
presented to IDA an acceptable work program for 1987.
1/ There are also other types of PEs such as Administrative Enterprises
(Etablissements Publics a caractere Administratif, EPA), Regies (R),
Regional Development Corporations (Societes Regionales du
Developpement, SRD) and Concessionary Corporations (Sociites
Concessionnaires, SC) which Government does not formally include in
the PE sector.



- 12 -
39.      During the next three years SCEP's main activities would be
a)   to further define its role and functions, specify its initial
work program and adapt these functions to the evolution of
the sector;
b)   to refine and implement Government policies vis-a-vis the PE
sector, as stated under the SAL (see Annex VI), and in
particular defining and applying criteria for Government
involvement in the PE sector (including checking on the
feasibility of proposals for any new PEs), assessing the
sector's economic and financial performance and identifying
economic and institutional issues hampering such performance;
c)   to define the ilstitutional (and legal) relationships between
Government, Public Enterprise managers, Boards of Directors,
line Ministries (tutelle), and other concerned Ministries;
d)   to design a system of monitorable objectives (e.g., "contrats
programmes"), incentives to improve the performance of
enterprises, Boards, and line Ministries, and establish a
system to monitor their performance;
e)   to finance rehabilitation studies for particular PEs,
approving the plans, identifying sources of finance for their
execution, and monitoring implementation, starting with five
priority enterprises selected under the SAL ss representative
of the sector and the problems it faces;
f)   to identify training needs of PE managers and Boards, methods
and sources of training; and
g)   to support a training program for SCEP and PE staff.
40.      To finance the restructuration of the PE sector, Government has
agreed to establish an Intervention Fund (IF), which will be financed
through the counterpart funds from the SAL I and placed at the National
Bank for Economic Development (BNDE). The Fund operations will be based on
action plans drawn up for each enterprise and made in the form of equity or
loans. The Government has also agreed under the SAL to provide the
Association with information on the use of counterpart funds, on a
quarterly basis. Government would also require SCEP to carry out an annual
audit for expenditures related to the IF. Rehabilitation proposals would
be prepared by consulting firms hired by the particular PEs under contracts
approved by SCEP and financed by the IF. During negotiations Government
confirmed that the proposals would then be submitted by the PE's manager
and Board jointly to the Management Committee of the IF who would make
decisions on the basis of recommendations by SCEP. In this manner, SCEP
would maintain an "arms-length" relationship with actual decision-making on
PE rehabilitation and retain its objectivity in reviewing/monitoring the
implementation of such plans. Receipt by IDA of satisfactory evidence
regarding the creation of the Intervention Fund and the establishment of
its Management Committee would be conditions of credit effectiveness.



- 13 -
41.      To carry out the above activities Government will need to hire
national staff to be reinforced by technical assistance and the proposed
project will therefore finance a team of long-term advisors and also short
term consultants to assist SCEP in the management of the overall
restructuring program and to develop SCEP capacity to function as an
oversight agency and a key service in the PE sector policy making process.
It will also finance equipment, vehicules and initial operating costs.
42.      To help implement the already established initial work program of
SCEP, the proposed external assistance would consEst of:
a) an econ-mist, employed for three years, to assist the SCEP in
(i) carrying out economic evaluation of rehabilitation plans and PE
investment proposals; (ii) guiding analytical sectoral studies of the PEs;
(iii) undertaking company diagnostic studies; (iv) the detailed preparation
and implementation of PE policy studies; and (v) the design and
implementation of training programs;
b) a financial advisor, employed for three years, to help
(i) carry out audits on the performance of the Intervention Fund; (ii)
compile statistics on cross-indebtedness among PEs; (iii) establish a
management information system and train staff in its operation and use;
(iv) manage the restructuration program; (v) implement a performance based
system; (vi) negotiate contract-programs and performance contracts; and
(vii) train managers and staff.
The terms of reference of these two experts were discussed and
agreed during appraisal and were confirmed during negotiations.
43.      In addition, the project would finance the services of an
international lawyer for a short-term period to help review the legal
framework governing the PE sector and to draft a new framework in which the
institutional and legal status of the SCEP, the PE boards and PE managers
will be structured vis-a-vis the "tutelle- ministries, the Finance
Ministry, and other Government bodies so that an appropriate balance can be
struck between the autonomy needed for efficient management on the one hand
and the accountability necessary to ensure adherence to national objectives
on the other hand.
44.      The proposed project would finance around 115 manlmonths of short
term consultancies to: (i) conduct rehabilitation plan studies; (ii)
perform company audits; (iii) conduct management and organizational
reviews; and (iv) perform specific tasks related to the Government efforts
to restructure the PE sector under the most favorable conditions. Finally,
the project would finance four vehicules, equipment and the operating cost
of SCEP on a declining basis during the first three years of operation.
45.      Each long-term expert or short term consultant would work closely
with a team of local counterpart staff located in the SCEP and also with
the staff of the tutelle ministries, public enterprises, Ministry of
Finance and Ministry of Planning. During negotiations, Government and the
Bank agreed to review once a year SCEP's work program and budget as a
safeguard to ensure that its staff is kept lean and that SCEP relies as
much as possible on short-term specialists to carry out occasional
activities.



- 14 -
II. The Planning Systems Component
46.      The Ministry of Planning (Ministire i la Presidence, Charge du
Plan) is responsible for overall development planning, the preparation of
the Public Investment Program (PIP) wad the development budget, and for
monitoring investment disbursements. These tasks are carried out
predominantly by the Ministry of Planning, without sufficient contribution
by the technical ministries, except in the case of the agricultural,
education and health sectors. The last two IDA technical assistance
credits reinforced the Agricultural Sectoral Planning Unit and helped
clarify the respective responsibilities of the Ministry of Planning and
this unit. Still, the planning process needs to move further away from a
'top-down character and become more "interactive". i.e., a system whereby
all technical ministries would be more involved in the formulation of
sector strategies and provide information to the Planning Ministry on
matters such as Investment programming and project identification,
preparation, appraisal and monitoring.
47.      As part of project preparation, IDA financed a review of the
planning system which concluded that to strengthen the planning system it
will be necessary to : (i) promote a uniform planning process for the
system as a w4hole; (ii) assess the need for additional sectoral units, and
progressively establish these units; (iii) firmly establish the recommended
division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Planning and the
sectoral planning units; (iv) establish an inter-sectoral coordination
process in planning matters; and (v) provide formal and on-the-job training
in planning techniques and in project preparation, appraisal and monitoring
to the staff working in the planning system. As a result Government
requested IDA to help it to reinforce the planning system but to do it in
two steps: first to strengthen the technical capabilities at the central
level (i.e., the Ministry of Planning) and second, to improve the sectoral
units. It also requested support for its preinvestment mechanism as a
means to reinforce implementation of the above measures.
48.      Preinvestment.  During negotiations Government agreed with IDA on
the main elements of its mechanism (called "Fonds d'Etudes by Government)
for coordinating the review of the design of preinvestment studies and the
approval of their financing. Sectoral, subsectoral prefeasibility,
feasibility and detailed engineering studies would be eligible for
financing.  This mechanism would be a focal point for coordinating the
preparation of new studies and investment projects and would be used to
finance the services of national and foreign consultants.
49.      The preinvestment mechanism would continue to be managed by the
Ministry of Planning according to procedures specified under this project
and to be revised on the basis of experience acquired. These procedures
are as follows:
(a) preparation of a preliminary annual "study program"
consisting of study proposals made by the line ministries,
ranked according to priority, and to be considered for
financing;



- 15 -
(b) review of such proposals by an interministerial coordination
cosmnittee;
(c) upon receipt of the results of such review, the Minister of
Planning would select the proposals to be included in the
"study program";
(d)  each "sttdy program" would be submitted to IDA for its prompt
comments and agreement.
50.      Selection Criteria.  To be approved for financing, Government also
confirmed during negotiations that the studies would need to meet the
following criteria:
(a) They should be sector studies, feasibility studies or
detailed engineering studies needed for the preparation and
implementation of the Economic Development Plan 1988-92 and
consistent with the priorities of the Public Investment
Program objectives. In addition, the following specific
study criteria would need to be met:
(i)     in the case of feasibility studies, only those
intended for projects included in the PIP or in
sector programs and for which a source of financing
(national or external) has been identified; and
(ii)    in the case of detailed engineering studies, only
those related to projects the soundness or which has
been demonstrated by a feasibility study.
(b)  Their cost should be estimated at no more than US$ 250,000
(1987 prices) unless otherwise agreed with the Association.
A tentative list of 16 studies for an amount of US$ 3.2 million is already
available (see Annex IX for details).
51.      PIP.  During the SAL I negotiations, Government had agreed to
review by February 1, 1988 its Public Expenditure programming system with a
view to improving coordination with other ministries and, after
consultation with IDA, to implement the necessary improvements (an
assurance reconfinmed under this project). In addition, in order to
rationalize resource allocation, Government had agreed to prepare a three
year rolling PIP which would include a "core" program of projects of high
priority for which full funding would be assured. Simultaneously a "non-
core" program would be prepared as a reserve of feasible projects ready for
financing if additional resources became available. Administratively the
PIP would be prepared under the direction of the Planning Ministry before
being consolidated into the PEP by an interministerial committee chaired
jointly by the Planning and Finance ministries. Regarding the content of
the PIP, however, until now, the largest investment projects in Burundi
have been appraised by foreign donors and consultants often using different
criteria and parameters. Government therefore decided to follow closely
the appraisal of new projects and to enhance the institutional capacity of
the planning system to carry out appraisal of projects included in the PIP.



- 16 -
In this process, common criteria and guidelines would be used, including
the use of the cost-benefit analysis methodology throughout the planning
system and consideration of environmental factors. To that intent,
Government decided to reinforce the project appraisal capacity within the
Planning Ministry's General Directorate for Planning which will be assisted
under this project.
52.      To assist the national staff responsible for the above, the
proposed credit would finance the services of a project appraisal economist
in the Ministry of Planning for two years. He/she would advise the central
unit and the sectoral units in project appraisal matters. The proposed
adviser would also identify the skill gaps, if any, of local staff involved
in managing the project cycle and help develop appropriate training schemes
in close consultation with the Government officials.
53.      Furthermore, in order to strengthen the system, short term
missions (approximately 8 s/m) would be financed for consultants to work
with the staff of the sectoral units in the ministries of agriculture,
health and education in project preparation and appraisal related to
specific economic(social sect.ors md to help progressively reinforce
sectoral new units in the mtiiistties of industry, transportation, rural
development and energy.
54.      Data Collection and Anal'ycs.  A serious constraint to the
improvement of overall development planning, ma_ro-economic analysis,
sectoral analysis, the formulation of sectoral strategies and project
preparation and appraisal is the lack of systematic data collection and
analysis which are also needed for the follow-up of the on-going and future
Structural Adjustment Program. The Service National de la Statistique
(SNES), which is under the tutelle of the Ministry of Planning, is
responsible for collecting and analyzing economic and social data. To
reinforce progress achieved at sectoral level under previous IDA financed
projects, the project would provide one expert for about 2 staff years, 12
staff months of short-term consultants, and 18 staff months of training
abroad. The project would essentially improve, at national level, the
capacity of the local staff in the field of data base collection and
analysis for the purpose of overall economic planning, with emphasis on
national accounts, balance of payments, external debt and public finance
statistics. Prior to negotiations, Government and IDA agreed upon a work
program for SNES (Annex VIII).
III. Assistance to the Ministry of Finance
55.      As mentioned in paragraph 22, Government intends to make the
budget and the Public Expenditure Program into efficient tools of macro-
economic management (see Annex VII). This will include the preparation of
a comprehensive three-year public expenditures program (PEP) for 1987-89
including for each budgetary category (executing agency) recurrent and
capital expenditures. This would permit better planning and programing of
resources to finance central administration expenditures, social services,
maintenance of the State fixed assets, and future recurrent expenditures
associated with on-going and new investment projects.



- 17 -
To carry out these tasks Government has already set up an
Interministerial Committee and the project would finance around 10 months
of short term consultancy services to help this Committee follow up the PEP
and assess its financial and economic impact.
IV. Local Capacity Building
56.      The project would finance formal training programs (seminars and
courses) for key staff of the above agencies. More specifically, training
will focus on the following:
a) For the SCEP and PEs staff:
(i)     Strategic planning teciiniques;
(ii)    Internal control, auditing and accounting;
(iii)   Management information systems;
(iv)    General company management.
b) For the Planning Ministry, the technical ministries and the
SNES:
(i)     Project appraisal methodologies;
(ii)    Collection and analysis of economic data;
(iii)   Study tours (with emphasis on planning systems
coordination);
c) For the Ministry of Finance: Budget and PEP preparation and
monitoring.
During negotiations Government provided IDA with the training plan
for the first year of implementation for the Ministries of Planning and
Finance. In addition Government agreed to provide IDA (i) each year
thereafter with the training plan for the subsequent year; anid (ii) by June
30, 1988 with a comprehensive 3-year training plan for Public Enterprises
and SCEP.
57.      In addition, CURDES, the Management Institute andfor CFP would be
closely associated with the design and implementation of training programs
and the resident advisors will be required to provide on-the-job training
to their counterparts as part of their work programs and to evaluate these
activities in their progress reports.
V. Project Implementation
58.      The agency responsible for coordinating implementation of the PE
component will be the SCEP since it has been given overall responsibility
for the restructuration of this sector. The agency responsible for the
planning component will be the Ministry of Planning, and the Finance
component will be executed jointly by the Planning and Finance Ministries.
Each agency will be responsible for identifying foreign and local
specialists. A PPF advance of US$ 0.5 million was requested by Government
and approved by IDA in October 1986 to finance the launch of SCEP
activities (P-398-BU).



- 18 -
VI. Key Project Activities
59.      During appraisal an overall work program and a detailed work
program and timetable were agreed upon by Government. Annex V shows the
major activities, responsibilities, outputs, timing and outcome of actions
to be implemented by the project.
VII. Project Cost (see Table 1)
60.      Project costs have been estimated at US$ 8.3 million equivalent
net of taxes, of which 73 percent are foreign costs (US$ 6.1 million) and
27 percent local costs (USS 2.2 million). Items imported for the project
would be exempt from taxes and duties, as per Government policy. Project
costs are expressed in March 1987 prices. Price contingencies are
estimated on the basis of local price increases of 6 percent for 1987 and 5
percent for 1988-92. For the foreign exchange component, contingencies of
3 percent for 1987, 1 percent for 1988-90 and 3.5 percent for 1991-92 hive
been used.
61.      The project will finance approximately 408 staff months of
expertise for all three components. An indicative distribution of these
staff months would be approximately 187 staff months for SCEP, 211 staff
months for the Ministry of Planning and 10 staff months for the Ministry of
Finance. The project would reinforce the Government practice of looking
for competent nationals before hiring expatriates by using the same
disbursement percentage for both local and foreign consultants (para. 66)
and it is expected that the project will draw, for some of the specialists,
on local consultants, primarily from the Economic Research Center (CURDES)
and the Professional Training Center (CFP). About 42 staff months of
training would be financed for SCEP and 18 staff months for the Planning
component. In addition, the project will finance all equipment for the
SCEP including vehicles, maintenance and other administrative expenses. The
project will also include the salaries for the local professional staff and
the local administative and support staff on a decreasing basis during the
first three years of project implementation.
VIII. Financing Plan
62.      The financing plan proposed for the project is summarized in the
Credit and Project Summary. IDA would finance about US$ 6.1 million of
foreign costs and US$ 1.4 million equivalent of local costs for a total of
US$ 7.5 million. The Government would provide the remr.ining US$ 0.8
million equivalent in local currency, or 10 percent of the total cost.



- 19 -
TABLE 1
PROJECT COST
(by component and category, in US$ thousands)
Local    Foreign       TOTAL       Percent
1. SCEP
Long Term Advisors (72 mlm)                    187.0       749.0        936.0
Short Term Consultants (115 m/m)               110.0    1,502.0      1,612.0
Training (42 mlm)                              100.0       340.0        440.0
Operating Expenditures                         686.0       100.0        786.0
Equipment & Vehicules                           63.0       110.0        173.0
Refinancing of PPF                             150.0       350.0       500.0
Sub-Total                              1,296.0    3,151.0       4,447.0         53
2. Ministry of Planning and SNES
Sector and Preinvestment
Studies (143 mIm)                            440.0    1,80O.0      2,240.0
Long Term Advisors (48 mlm)                    115.0       460.0        575.0
Short Term Consultants (20 mim)                 60.0       180.0        240.0
Training (18 mr/m)                              60.0       144.0        204.0
Vehicules & Equipment                           63.0        90.0        153.0
Sub-Total                                 738.0    2,674.0      3,412.0         41
3. Ministry of Finance
Short Term Consultants (10 m/m)                 30.0        90.0        120.0
Training                                        13.0        32.0         45.0
Sub-Total                                 43.0       122.0        165.0          2
TOTAL EASE COST1                             2,077.0    5,947.0      8,024.0
Contingencies                                                                          4
Of Which : Physical                             24.0        40.0         64.0
Price                              130.0       134.0        264.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           2,231.0    6,121.0      8,352.0         100
(27%)      (73%)       (100%)
11        All item  would be exempt from import duties and local taxes.



- 20 -
IX. Procurement, Disbursemcnt, Accounting and Audits
63.      It is expected that the Government would recruit directly under
individual contracts or through consulting firms the long-tenr experts and
short-term consultai.ts to be funded under the project.   The qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment of all experts and
consultants would be satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines for use of consultants.
64.      Contracts for equipment and related items costing less than US$
40,000 per contract would be awarded following one of the following
procedures: (a) local competitive bidding (LCB); (b) international or
local shopping or; (c) direct contracting i'n accordance with Bank Group
guidelines for procurement. Contracts costing more than USS 40,000 each,
if any, would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Government would submit to the Association for prior review, the tender
documents indicating the method of procurement proposed. Items would be
grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding (see Annex
X).
65.      In order to expedite disbursement and give the Government improved
control over the timing of payments due under the credit,Government agreed,
during negotiations, to establish for the SCEP and for the planninglfinance
components two Special Accounts in the BRB under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Upon credit effectiveness and receipt of
withdrawal application, the Association would make advance deposits of
US$ 200,000 and US$ 400,000 equivalent respectively into these two
accounts. The Association would periodically replenish each of these
accounts upon receipt and approval of withdrawal applications together with
satisfactory evidence that the expenditures paid out of the Special
Accounts were eligible for financing out of this project.
66.      Funds from the credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
a)   100 percent of total expenditures for services of long-term
specialists, short-term consultant and training specialists;
b)   100 percent of foreikn and 80% of local expenditures for
vehicules, equipment and supplies;
c)   for operating cost of the SCEP:
100% in 1987, 85% in 1988 and 70% in 1989;
d)   100 percent of foreign exchange cost of fellowships.
67.      All disbursements would be fully documented except those for local
training and fellowships and payments against contracts of less than USS
40,000 equivalent which would be made against statements of expenditure,
and for which documentation would not be submitted for review. However,
the SCEP and the Planning Ministry would be required to make this
documentation available for review by IDA representatives during project
supervision. A six-year profile has been retained on the assumption that
presently unforeseeable delays will occur, even though consultant contracts
would have a maximum duration of three years, with recruitment currently
under way (PPF financing).



- 21 -
68.      Auditing would be required on a yearly basis for expendituretc
related to the project with particular attention to expenditures relmbursied
against statements of expenditure. The audit would encompass the
expenditures of SCEP as a whole. Auditing would be performed by an
independent audltor acceptable to the Association withiin six months after
the end of each fiscal year of the borrower.  It should be noted thnt thei
Planning Ministry io required to carry out independent audits of itta
accounts under the ongoing IDA - financed project (Credit 1456 -BU).
X. Project Implementation Schedule
69.       The proposed credit is expected to become effective in September
1987. Long-term advisers would be identified prior to project
effectiveness with the intention of posting them within the following six
months. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992. The
closing date is December 31, 1992.
XI. Reporting, Monitoring and Accountability
70.      SCEP and the Ministry of Planning would be required to submit to
the appropriate Government authorities, with copy to IDA, annual reports on
the progrers of project implementation, policy reforms and institutional
changes, sad implementation of the performance-contracts. The scope and
details fir these reports were agreed upon during negotiations. Assisted
by the Ltchnical assistance team, they would define monitoring indicators
for each project component. The SCEP will pay special attention to
progress in implementing the terms of contract-plans and/or performance-
contracts by all parties concerned. On the basis of these reports and
inputs from all other implementing agencies, SCEP and the Ministry of
Planning would prepare annual reports to be submitted to Government, with
copy to IDA, summarizing progress achieved, difficulties encountered, and
changes or adjustments to be made. Anrnual reports would also be made about
overall PE sector performance and policy or institutional issues affecting
it. In addition, there would be an annual management review of SCEP's
performance in carrying out the national objectives for the PE sector,
which would also assist in increasing the degree of accountability of this
institution vis-a-vis the Government. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that these reports would be submitted to IDA by March 31 of
each year. At project completion, these agencies would prepare a project
completion report, incorporating contributions made by the other
implementing agencies.
71.      The SCEP will act as the Government's key focal point for
monitoring progress of the PE sector restructuring component, in particular
the rehabilitation program, settlement of interlocking debts and
utilization of the Intervention Fund. The Planning Ministry will be the
focal point for the Planning/Finance component (programming/budgeting).



- 22 -
XII. Degree of Project Readiness
72.      Progress in finalizing project preparation has been substantial
with the creation of the Service Charge des Enterprises Publiques (SCEP)
and the key appointment of a Commissaire General (July 1986). Other local
staff have already been appointed. The T.A. for the SCEP has been defined
and its implementation has begun.  An acceptable work program has been
agreed upon for the first year of operation. Mutually agreeable terms of
reference for all key specialists have been agreed.
73.      The Planning Ministry has already established a coerdinating
mechanism for the preparation of the study program and has started
identifying tae T.A. needed for advice on project appraisal. The Ministry
of Finance .,as organized an Interministerial Committee for the preparation
of the PE. and has already hired a short-term consultant for this task.
E. Project Justification, Berefits and Risks
I. Justification
74.      The project is an essential complement to the Structural
Adjustment Credit approved by IDA in FY 86 (paras. 20-23, 75-76). To this
end, the project would strengthen the SCEP, the Ministry of Planning and
the Ministry of Finance. These three agencies are key elements in the
structural adjustment program financed by IDA and other donors in Burundi.
By focussing on the PE sector and enterprise level management, the project
cycle and the Planning/Programming/Budgeting process, the proposed project
would contribute to improving the quality of the economic and financial
management of the Public Sector.
II. Benefits
75.      At the PE sector level and the individual enterprise level the
main benefits expected from the project are: a) the policy and
institutional reform would help to better define the role of Covernment in
the PE sector; b) the introduction of Strategic Planning Techniques,
performance incentives, as well as the reinforcement of the enterprises'
financial autonomy and accountability will help Government to improve its
role as owner/shareholder/regulator and improve the efficiency of PE
managers; and c) the introduction of management information systems and
improvement of accounting and auditing systems will strengthen managerial
decision-making at enterprise level. At the end of the project, Government
would, in addition, have produced a number of rehabilitation or divestiture
plans for PEs. These benefits will only be sustainable provided this
project is reinforce, by follow-up support from IDA or other aid agencies
to carry out these plans.
76.      In the Planning/lrogramming/Budgeting area, the main expected
benefits are: a) the strengthening of the planning system by developing
institutional arrangements for better defining sectoral development
policies and strategies; b) in the medium-term, benefits will arise from
better Investment decisions, a more rational allocation of resources and
therefore a more productive use of available resources; Pnd c) good



- 23 -
preparation and monitoring of the PEP will ensure greater consistency
between the allocation of resources, the demands of the economy and the
medium-term development objectives. These improvements would help ensure
the sustainability of the institutional changes agreed to under the SAL I
project.
III. Risks
77.      The main risks are: a) possible resistance of existing vested
interests against proposed reforms or resistance to change within
Government institutions and PEs; and b) lack of national capabilities for
managing PEs and their oversight and in planning.
7B.      These risks are mitigated by: a) establishment of  a Consultative
Committee of senior officials concerned for the PE sector and a
consultative process in Planning/ProgramminglBudgeting matters which will
promote the appropriate expression of the technical ministries' Interest in
these matters; b) systemstic provision of staff training; and c) design of
the services of consultants so as to promote learning by doing among
national staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.      The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Burundian
Republic and the Association, and the Recommeendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III of this
report.
I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
April 22, 1987



Annex I
Page 1 of 2
PasoslatIm, *.7 el itls.
CI' per capita:t 314  (lI. Aglas figure)
Saiont                .. A.erngu Annual Increase CO)                    Share of' MO at plbrbat Price. (U)
(Million use                   (at Canatent Pricas)                             (at, Currant PriCest)
Ind icator.              Cur'eint  Pr  en.)  ......................................                                      .............
Lou4          1s7s-r1   si-u4       4-&    "6-9D   90-95         aWn      i9wo     low      INS      1s90    iowa
uNOINALt ACCOLMT
Green SameetiC Preductjaj        92.2                4.9    -2.1      5.5       4.0     '.3       100.0   100.0    300.    100.0   100.0   100.0
CDP factor cats                683.4               3.7    -3.0       4.6      3.5      4.2
Age;icatIt.ra                 430.2               3.3    -4.2       6.5     3.0      3.4        54.0    65.3    52.3        1. 9    49.2    47.5
Secs.der,                     144.4               3.2      2.9      1.4      4.6     3.7        34.3     12.7    13.3      M  15.0 110        7.7
Se-i tcaalbj                  223.7               7.0      2.6     4.4       3.4      '.3       31.1    32.0    33.9    33.1    34.3    34.3
Conaeaptsin                     379.1               3.5       2.12     1.9      2.6     3.3        64. 5    100.4   301.1    95.5    91.0    32.1
Green In.eatanmet                177.4              3.1       6.0     4.2       2.6      4.0       14.0    13.3      34.3    11.5    19.9    20.5
E.perte OUt                      111.9               1.2    -2.2      13.9      4.6      3.5       11.t.    7.7      20.0    1L.36    13.7    13.7
Taporse OUt                     2613.0             -1.5    13.3        0.1,    3.2       3.7       20.2    21.3    25.5    23.6    24.5    24.4
Canem Notional Scalings           60.1.              9.9   -13.2    19.9        5.5      7.3        6.1      3.5      2.0      5.'     10.5    14.6
Anount                   A-arage Annual Intcraeee (U)                   CemppeelLien of Narclmand le Trade (U)
(HiIlimn Use                   (at Canutat PrIcaa)                              (at Currant Pricaa)
Vnarcheadine E.port.              so66               1.2      1.9    13.5       5.5      S.d      100.0   100.0   100O    1001.0   100.0   100.0
Coffee                        93.0               6.2       2.2     11.5      3.6      3.6      uS.9    m9.o    87.3    115.1    50.1    72.3
Nan-ceffan                      5.3      lcj   -14.7       0.4    30.3       5.0    11.L4       14.1    11.0      32.7    11.0    19.9    27.4
Nlarchandion Iaenrtn             167.0              -1.7     11.2      0.4      3.3      2.7      100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
C,,n..aar geese                50.5             -13.0     6.6       1.9      1.3    -1.3        45.7    42.0    24.1    3i.2    23.7    25.7
MaUlnatry                      47.5              -.65     20.1    12.6       3.2      4.3       30.1    UB.S      41.4    29.2    27.7    29.1
Othe'a                         60.0              16.5      0.7    -5.0       4.7      2.6       24.2    19.1    30.5    39.6    43.6    45.2
it"     isgO      g  1041  152      106        1054     1965
C  OP Dflao. (1970.100)                            232.9   312.5   201.0   310.5   335.1          366.6   411.1
Eadhmanga Nte(1561m.F)                              40.0    00.0    90.0    410.0    93.0         119.7   120.7
EaPort Price i.W.a.(1070a100)                      316.5   320.6   224.0   243- .6   301.0        '104.3    390.0
l.apet Pea ce In.ds.(1570-3200)                   331.2   4103.0   '20.2   442.9   474,7          476.2   '50.0
Toene of' Yrade Indain(1070.100)                    06.2    6060    53.3    65.0    63.4           64.9    B3.1
An S o CDP
PUBLIC FINANCE                                      1078     iwo      1963     1937     1990       1905
Carrent N-afte.  MId                                19.0    11.01    16.7    17.2    17.5          15.
Current E.pand.t.rr                                 22.7    iO.7    12.0    10.9    10.5            4.5
S.rplue(4) or DOf.r.t(-)                             7.3      5.4      4.7      6.3      7.0        6.5
Cp.,tal JE.paadktura                               11 6     11.9    17.2    13.5    13.3          1.2.5
Foraign Fineanc.n                                    53-      7.2    13.9       9.6      7.7        8.2
0110v  MIrClaTmS                        i1076-a:    si-Se    64-65    63-00    00-os
OP GretSk Rste(I)                           5.6    -2 5       5.5      3.6      4.4
OW per Capita Croth Rate                    3.0    -50        251      0.9      1.5
IcaON                                       5.5b     6.7       .       51       4.4
Plerg-.el Saringa Roat                      0.6      . .      0 2      C 1      0 2
le/ AL conenetfI -ark.t pr.csp
/b/ Incl.dac ind. ract teana
/C/ Inc Eden ra-smeerte
/d/rncl.d.da forairn 9,anto



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
t,Res  I 14PMIR of Pupusts .ztuem  Cai bel end Dbet
(Hi l -ma orf WI et CSoP559 PPIem
urelsti.n: 4.7 milli;
@W per cap;ita: 52M (1904)
AneI                          Prel la.                 - PreJ_id
Udics- "-----'--------------------                                                           ;-         ---------------_______-________________________--
14T7    nec       ou2    1U2I    Ife         in4         1        rn      imU     lo       10" 9    noo       in
Certet Accoust falence
Eaperta of a  os fot                     105.2      W.1     74.9    07.5       0.      U.S       115.    IS1.5   157.2   155.7  1&0. a    16.4   84.5
ef w.b;cb  Coffee                      12.4    91.5    55.0        M5      70.1     580        98.4    141.8   1N.0   183.3   135.6   140.4   2n9.
Inert. of COne cif                       151.7   167.2   361.2   214.2   133.6    10.0           198.0   2n8.5    21.2   217.2   273.1   29.1    44.0
e     -- ice* Iao.. -*,                           -20.0   -44.7   -1.8a   -40.3   -T4.8          -37.0   -59.0   -69.2    -.9  -104.8  -10i.2  -136.8
Nos Tra.,rJrs                             34.0    47.2      ".7      ".e      U.5      n4.4       5 b2.0    47.8    4. 6     50.0     w.o       ae.a    57.2
Capital Account%
Priv.et. Drect investme-                            0.9      0.6      1.       0        0.9        1.7      2.2      2.9       1.6     4.G      6.4      18.0
Capital gramm,                            25.4    25.2    26.8    87.1         We9    89.5        44.0    45.0    45.0    49.4    88.1    57.2    71.3
,._T LsC-                            .     2 3.30    40.9    2b.7    52.5    1oD.7    Q2.8         5.0   IOD.I    94.9    90.5    90.6    SSAl   100.4
mf a-;er: Anrtixsts,n                  .2.3      4,2      U.7     -8.4     -5.2     -.5       -14.1   -21.1   -24.7    44.8    -24.6   -24.6   -30.5
Msr Ceip,l1(Shsrt-Tlr-)                    4.5    12.3    12.4    11.1    2D.5    -1.6             11.6    -b.0    '1.0        4.0     4.0      0.0       0.0
ket Errors A 0i,son.                      -      .5. 6    -17.5       0. I       .9     6.5        6.?      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Cnerall  ele.nce                          -4.0    -6.7    -7.9   -24.0    12.2    -3.4            10.0    54.0    22.0        9.0    -2.2    -2.5    15.0
P.ar.c H1veMIs                             4.0      5.7     7.9     24.0   -12.8        .4      -10.0   -S4.0   -22.0    -9.0         2.2       2.5    -15.0
Patents Le. -   (growa)                  106.9   104.7     U.2      25.1    3S.9    25.1         2.7.4    51.4   108.4   122.4   110.2   107.7   170.?
Rooree as monf's ;mpo La                  3.7      1.1      4.1      1.1       1.6      1.2       1.2      5.4      4.0      8.4      3.6      2.2      8.5
Actedl               Prul is.                  PrejaCtAd
EeLcsrnl Capital end Debt                 1979     16l0     1931     1414     1935      in        1637.   143         9e9     LW0     1991     1992      199
Crose D;ebu-rasat                         41.7    45.0    29.7    79.9         3.8    121.7       119.1   115.0   115.4   112.7   112.5   114.5   130.9
BilItorel                                15.9    17.9    13.2       15.9    52.5    34.8         23.3    25.6    26.1    25.7    27.2          5.1    312.2
00t; ilet's'1                             2J.0    25.9    19.5    80.9    75.0         17.4       90.3    n.o        9.8    67.0    35.8    11.D        Gin.?
of b;ic: W"D                         11.4     11.6    10.4    2M.        20.7    50.9        52.1    84.7         W      U.      fa. a    61.3    76.2
11                          7.4      8.8       --       --       -        --       --         --       --       --       --       - 
Financial e,j Sue0s1es,                    2.6      0.2       --     12.1       -        --       --         -         -_      _         -       _         _
Etatreal Debt Pub. a rblicly Cse.t.esd
OD*st Osetanding end 0-bura"            110.'   141.3   1S7.2    3a4.4   401.9   596.2         611.8   yn.m    g.6    *sa.e 5ao4.o  2130.   1387.0
Wnd; sburma Debt                        121.1    138.5   297.9   222.5   277.6   257.3          229.5   289.1   205.5       22    212.1   2M.6   260.9
Debt S-.;e1
Totel Servc. Pepseata                    4.2      6.2       5.4    17.8    25.8    51.5          8A.6    87.1    87.2    87.9    32.6         WS.8     4e.0
Iterest                               1.4      2.0      1.6      3.1    12.5       0-9       10.9    11.1    12.5    13.8    14.2           15      17.5
Psyawnt me S ese@rte                     4.0    10.5        6.1     14.2    22.1    16.9        20.5    20.0    11.     17,7         15.5    14.6      12.5
As * Debt 0uwt_*anM
at and of sat recent
Y.5. (1964)
4let.r;t Stucst.ur  oa 0.bt Otstedinn                                  31
Pr-C.p   d .ldue.th.; 5 yars                                    1is6
Interest Structur. of Debt Du.Ltandne                                 2.7
Inter.st d.e e.thin 5  ers                                        1.1
/1/ DOe-  ot, ,nclsds reacueces froe IHF Stlucteml Adjustmast Facilitr



Annex II
STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI           Page I of 2
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of Sept. 30, 1986)
Amount
Loan or                                                   US$ Million
Credit                                               (Less Cancellations)
Number     Year    Borrower         Purpose        Bank    IDA I/ Undisbursed 4/
One Loan 21 and fourteen credits fully disbursed. 4.8    93.03
1049 BU    1980    Burundi   Urban Development       -     15.00     3.87
1058 BU    1980    Burundi   Telecoununications    -        7.70     0.75
1154 BU    1981    Burundi   Nickel Exploration    -        4.00     0.10
1165 BU 3/ 1981    Burundi   Kirluiro Rural
Development          -     19.30     5.68
1192 BU    1982    Burundi   Integrated Rural
Dev./Ngozi III      -      16.00     8.29
1230 BU    1982    Burundi   Local Construction
Industry            -       4.40     0.75
1358 BU    1983    Burundi   Third Education         -     15.80      2.53
1419 BU    1983    Burundi   Ruzizi 11 Regional    -       15.00     9.20
1456 BU    1984    Burundi   Third Technical
Assistance           -      5.10     3.67
1583 BU    1985    Burundi   Fourth Highway          -     18.10    15.53
1593 BU    1985    Burundi   Power Transmission
and Distribution    -      12.30    11.48
1620 BU    1985    Burundi   Second Forestry         -     12.80    11.16
1625 BU    1985    Burundi   Rural Water Supply    -        9.50      8.48
1705 BU    1986    Burundi   Structural Adjustment -       15.00    10.27
A017 BU    1986    Burundi   Structural Adjustment.-t    16.20        9.57
Total                                  4.8   279.23   101.33
Of which has been paid               4.8   - 0.58
Total now outstanding                0.0   278.65
Amount sold: 2.97
Of which has been repaid: 2.97
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                     0.0   278.65
Total undisbursed                                    101.33
I/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
Y/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for
the improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the
lake port of Eujumbura. The loan, which was guaranteed by the Kingdom
of Belgium, has been fully repaid.
31 Including a MORAD Grant participation of US$5.8 million.
4/ Credit 1154-BU and higher are denominated in SDRs and are shown in US$
equivalents, based on the exchange rates In effect at the time of
negotiations.



Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF lFC INVESTMENTS - BURUNDI
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(As of June 30, 1986)
Type of            Amount in USS Million
Year      Obligor          Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1981      Verreries du    Glass Container    4.8       0.8        5.6
Burundi
Total Gross Commitments Less
Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                         4.4     0.8        5.2
Total Commitments Now
Held by IFC                                  4.4     0.8        5.2
Total Undisbursed                              0.1      0.1       0.2
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/  Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for
the improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the
lake port of Bujumbura. The loan, which was guaranteed by the Kingdom
of Belgium, has been fully repaid.
3/  Including a NORAD Grant participation of US$5.8 million.
4/  U.S. dollar value at signing dates.
5/  Not yet effective.



Annex III
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
Economic and Public Enterprise ManaRement Proiect
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
a) Identification:                     April 1986
b) Preparation:                        May - October 1986
c) Appraisal:                          November 1986
d) Negotiation:                        March 30, 1987
e) Planned date of effectiveness       September 1987
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)   Government will provide IDA with satisfactory evidence
regarding the creation of the PE Intervention Fund and the
establishment of its management committee (para. 40).
b) Other Special Conditions
(i)   Rehabilitation plans of PEs will be reviewed by SCEP before
their approval and financing by the Intervention Fund
(para.40);
(ii) Government and IDA will jointly review, once a year, SCEP's
work program and budget to ensure their appropriateness
(para. 45);
(iii) No later than June 30, 1988 SCEP will present for the
approval of the Association a comprehensive three-year
training plan for PEs and SCEP; it will also prepare annual
training plans for Ministry of Planning and Ministry of
Finance staff (para. 56);



Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)  Government will prepare an annual program of preinvestment
studies according to mutally agreed procedures and criteria
and submit it to IDA for approval (paras. 48 to 50);
(v)   Regarding its planning system, Government will (a) review by
February 1, 1988 its Public Expenditure programming system
with a view to improving coordination with other ministries;
and (b) prepare an action plan satisfactory to IDA to improve
such coordination (para. 51);
(vi)  SCEP will prepare an annual report on PE performance and
Government will carry out an annual management review of
SCEP's performance (para. 70).



ANNEX _IV
Page I of 2
The Functions of SCEP
1.       The office in Charge of Public Enterprises (SCEP) would be
responsible for the strateRic analysis of the PE sector and resulting
policy development, i.e.:
(a) continuous analysis of the overall economic and financial
- situation of PEs and of their contribution to the economy
(b) analysis of the economic and legal environment as it may
affect the performance of PEs and of possible measures to
improve such environment;
(c) identification of the PE sector objectives, and definition of
criteria for government involvement; and
(d) definition of the principles that should guide Government/FE
relationships.
Application of the above activities and criteria would lead the
oversight agency into (i) identifying legal or administrative improvements
to the administration of PEs and the exercise by Government of its role as
owner; (ii) suggesting measures for restructuring the sector; (iii)
proposing programs for diagnosis and rehabilitation of certain PEs; (iv)
assessing the resulting plans as prepared by the PEs and/or their
consultants and recommending measures for their financing; and (v)
monitoring implementation of the above.
2.       The PE Office would also be responsible for monitoring, assisting
and advising the management of particular PEs through:
(a) the se.ting up of a management information system and
indicators;
(b) promoting preparation of corporate strategic and operational
plans;
(c) evaluating such plans and making recommendations about
possible PE requests for subsidies;
(d) checking implementation against plans and recommending (or
taking) measures to correct deviations;
(e) verifying the regular submission by PEs of financial or other
management information;



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
(f) diagnosing training needs of managers and Boards, identifying
appropriate training opportunities, and devising ways of
cross-fertilizing excellence in performance; and
(g) assisting PEs to design a system of incentives (rewards and
sanctions) for PE managers and Boards.
3.       Appropriate linkages would be established between the PE Office
and appropriate senior Government and non-government officials to advise
the Office on its own operations and strategy.



ANtlEX V
Page 1 of 6
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Responsible             Output/
Activity                Agency               Deadline                             Outcome
I. SCEP
Creation of SCEP and            Presidence             Decree, approved July 86   Key Service established in the
formulation of PE policy                                                           PE policy making process and
lead agency to monitor PE
sector performance
Appointment of                  Presidence             Decree, approved Sept.86   SCEP has a manager
Commissaire G;neral
Request PPF                     SCEP                   Request approved            SCEP has initial financing to
October 1986                start operations
Establishment of SCEP           SCEP                   Decree, work program        SCEP has an administrative
structure, staffing.                                   and budget                  basis to start operating
budget, preparation                                    January 1987
of 1987 work program
Recruitment of national         SCEP                   Sign contracts              SCEP can start Its operatiohs
staff and T.A., prepare                                April 1987
TORs, select, negotiate,
contract



ANNEX V
Paze 2 of 6
Responsible            Output/
Activity                 Agency                Deadline                              Outcome
Review of PE sector              SCEP                    (i) Report                   Institutional
legal/institutional                                      (ii) Amendments to decree  relationships between SCEP,
framework                                                governing PE sector, as    tutelle ministries, Ministry of
appropriate                 Finance, PE Boards and FE
September 1987              managers are clarified, so is
legal status of PEs.
Cre.4tion of Intervention        Planning Ministry/    (a) Decree, Regulations    Government has financing
Fund (IF)                        SCEP                    for I.F.                     mechanism to implement
(a) formal eastablishement                               (b) procedures, responsi-  restructuration program of PEs
(b) procedures                                           bilities, terms and
conditions
December 1986 (outline
prepared)
February 1987 (formally
approved)
Prepare feasibility                                                                   Economic feasibility of
studies for five PEs                                                                  rehabilitation of specific PEs
(CADEBU, ONAPHA, OTRABU                                                               determined; proposals for
OTRACO, VERRUNDI)                                                                     divestiture or rehabilitation
(a) prepare TORS                 SCEP/Tech. Min/PEs                                   received and decisions made,
(b) invite & select              PEs                                                  thus making PE sector leaner
consultants                                                                       & potentially more efficient
(c) sign contracts               PEs                     Contract signed within
4 months of TORs
(d) receive studies              PE
(e) approve                      PE/SCEP                 Studies approved (within
6 months of contract)



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 6
Responsible            Output/
Activity                Azency                Deadline                             Outcome
Analysis of patterns of          SCEP                   Periodic reports on PE      Improved macroeconomic &
issues affecting PEs                                    sector. Proposals to        institutional policy environ-
Government for improving   ment aff;cting PEs
macrolpolicy environment
March 1988 and yearly
thereafter
Implementation of first                                 Establishment of contract  Rehabilitasion of up to 5 PEs
phase rehabilitation                                    programs                    whose economic profitability is
program                                                 Rehabilitation of PEs       demonstrated.
- Agreement on contract-        SCEP/Tech.Min/CEOs/   Progress reports              Implement selected economic
programs                      Boards                  September 1987              policies for these PEs
- Granting of financing         SCEPIBNDE
PE Boards
- Hiring of consultants         PEs
- Purchase of equipment         PEs
- Training of staff and         PEs/SCEP
managers
- Monitoring of progress        SCEP
Design and Implement             SCEP/PEs (Boards/      MIS study & phased          MIS to monitor PE sector
Management Informa-              CEOs)                  implementation plan         performance through selected
tion System (MIS)                (Min.Fin, Auditor      September 1987              ratios/indicators
(TORs for consultants, etc.)   Gen., Min. Plan)



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 6
Responsible            Output/
Activity                 Agency                Deadline                              Outcome
Design & implementation          SCEP (in consulta-    Feasible                       Improved degree of market and
of performance incentives        tion with PEs and       system of incentives &       business orientation of
and measurement systems          Fonction Publique)    measurements for Boards,   managers & staff, more
CEOs and line ministries   efficient use of resources,
October 1987 (submission)  etc. Contract-program/
March 1988 (approval)        performance plan monitored.
Reduction in interference,
increase iln accountability &
autonomy
Define second phase              SCEP/Tech. Min/         Definition of sectors of   Identification of additional
restructuration program          Planning Ministry       intervention, TORs for       sectors of intervention and PEs
consultants                  to be studied for rehabilita-
Feb. 1987 (submission)       tion
Nov. 1987 (approval)
Study of Private                 SCEP                    TORs for consultants         Potential for total/partial
Sector                                                   Signed contract              divestiture of selected
Study                        rehabilitated PEs determined
November 1987 (approval)
Liquidate 4 PEs                  SCEP/Min. Fin./         Economically,                Government has method for
Auditor Gen. (Min.    legally and politically    closing do.-n unviable PEs
Justice)               appropriate method to         and has applied it on at
cut off subsidies & close  least 4 such PBs
down PEs, available by
February 1987



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 6
Responsible            Output/
Activity                Agency                 Deadline                             Outcome
II. PLANNING SYSTEM
Strengthening of the             Ministry of Planning  Regulation                    Lead Unit on investment
Planning Directorate                                    Issued by Ministry           appraisal established, guide-
of Planning                  lines set for resource alloca-
March 1987                   tion and PIP preparation
Staffing Planning                Ministry of Planning  Core staff assigned by        Functioning unit able to
Directorate                                             Ministry of Planning         appraise public investments
Preparation 1987 work                                   Work program established   to be included in 1989 PIP
programs                                                by Direction G&ntrale of
Planning
May 1987
Hiring T.A. for Central          Ministry of Planning                                Methodology for project
Unit                                                                                 appraisal for the entire public
- Prepare TOR                                          Deadline May 1987            sector agreed and being
- Invite candidates                                                                 implemented
- Sign contract                                        Contract signed by
Ministry of Planning
Staff on job by July 1987
III. MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Preparation of PEP               Ministry of Finance   Interministerial              Budget/PEP used as tool for
Committee and TA             economic managment and more
Three-year rolling PEP       rational allocation of scarce
Annual Budget                resources
Deadline December 1987



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 6
Responsible            output/
Activity                Agency                 Deadline                              Outcome
IV. TRAINING
Training for Planning,           Ministry of Planning  Train selected staff and   Competent national staff,
SNES and Finance staff           Ministry of Finance   offices in                     permanent competency in key
1. Assess training needs                              project cycle, PIP/PEP        economic management activities
2. Specify programs                                    preparation, sectoral
3. Identify, select                                    planning, national
candidates                                         accounts, collectionf
4. Implement                                           analysis eco/soc data,
etc. Provide formal and
on-the-job training to
national staff
Program available by
July 1988
Training of SCEP staff           SCEP                    First year program           Competent national staff in
available by June 1988;    SCEP and in management of
subsequent programs to       PEs and in PE Boards
be available each year
thereafter



Annex VI
Page 1 of 6
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
POLICY STATEMENT ON THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
The Parastatal Sector
1.    The 57 public enterprises (PEs) in Burundi were established for the
most part in the late 1970s, to perform several functions, such as to
provide a public service, compensate for the lack of private investment
(especially in industry) or coordinate economic sectors (e.g., coffee and
cotton). These PEs today have a considerable impact on the economy: they
account for 10,000 jobs, their revenues were about FBu 15 billion in i9g6,
and they contributed about 5% of the GNP. Their role in the modern sector
of the economy is essential.
2.    A difficult world economic situation, problems in domestic and
foreign markets and lack of managerial experience have led to acute
financial problems for certain PEs. Faced with constraints in public
finance, the Government is aware of the crucial importance of
rehabilitating these enterprises and revitalizing this important economic
sector.
Government Objectives
3.    The Government is committed to improving the performance of the PE
sector, and has decided that the PEs in difficulty should be restructured
and rehabilitated, as part of a structural adjustment program.
4.    In the following paragraphs, the term PE includes the three types of
public enterprises in Burundi: public establishments of an industrial and
commercial nature, companies under public law (entreprises du droit public)
and mixed companies.
5.    The Government's main objectives in undertaking this reform are:
(a) To ensure effective Government participation only in sectors
that require public investment, either because they are new
activities or vital public services, or because they concern
strategic sectors;
(b)  To maximize the PEs' contribution to value added.  The PEs must
generate a positive economic and financial return. Each
enterprise should be able to cover its operating expenses and
finance at least a part of its investment expenditures; and
(c) To ensure a positive contribution to public finance. The PE
sector must geuerate an adequate return to justify the public
investment; thd Government will not subsidize the PEs'
commercial and industrial activities.



Annex VT
Page 2 of 6
Rehabilitation Strategy
6.    In order to accomplish these objectives, the Government has adopted a
rehabilitation strategy for the PE sector, based on the following main
elements:
(a) Development of well-defined objectives, clear responsibilities
and rigorous accounting procedures, as needed for the sound
management of these enterprises;
(b) Rehabilitation of selected PEs whose medium-term profitability
has been demonstrated on the basis of diagnostic and
rehabilitation studies; these studies will be the basis for the
negotiation of performance contracts (contrats-plans) between
the Government and the enterprises;
(c) Improvement of PE management. This involves: changes in the
legal status in order to increase PE autonomy; reform of the
price controls; development of a management information system
tailored to the needs of the managers; and introduction of
productivity bonuses based on performance criteria to be
established in agreement with the Bank and with the Bank's
support;
(d) kedimensioning the parapublic sector through privatization, when
operations could be adequately handled by private investors or
through closure when the activities are not profitable over the
medium run;
(e) Establishment of ways to enable the Government to regularly
obtain a clear picture cf the performance of the sector as a
-whole and to follow up on the progress of main enterprises;
(f) Limitation of the establishment of new PEs and of large
investments to those cases when economic profitability is
demonstrated and where the alternative of having the private
sector to make such investment is not possible; and
(g) Budget financing of PEs' social objectives, when these are
Imposed by the State and when their cost cannot be recovered
from the users.
Action Program
7.    To achieve these objectives, the Government intends to implement a
reform program based on past experience and on ongoing studies. Priority
actions and follow-up measures will be taken for the sector as a whole and
for individual enterprises.



Annex VI
Page 3 of 6
Priority Measures
Sector Policy:
8.    The Government has decided to create a unit in the public
administration responsible for permanent strategic analysis, follow-up and
assistance of the PE sector. This National Service in Charge of Public
Enterprises (Service National Charge des Entreprises Publiques - §CEP),
headed by a high-ranking official, will be responsible for coordinating the
rehabilitation program.
9.    The SCEP will study the legal framework of the PE sector and make
recommendpcions as needed. The goal is to adapt the existing legislation
to the changes that have occurred in the sector over time or that will
occur as part of the rehabilitation program. The roles of the supervisory
ministries, Directors General, Boards of Directors and Managing Committees
of each enterprise will be reviewed in order to: (i) avoid overlapping of
responsibilities and conflicts of authority; (ii) decentralize authority to
the extent possible; and (iii) give PE managers as much responsibility as
possible. The legal framework will take into account the necessary reforms
in employment policy, notably regarding compensation, hiring and
termination. These reforms will take into consideration the existing Labor
Code.
10.   The Government will relax the price controls for FE services and
products, to bring them in line with the private sector. To the extent
possible, the prices charged for public services will reflect the cost of
production; the prices of manufactured products will be determined by
market forces. If certain public non-commercial services are to be
provided at prices below cost, adequate subsidies will be included in the
performance contract and the necessary funds will be included in the
Government budget.
11.   A management information system (MIS) will be set up to collect data
on production, personnel, sales, inventory and the finances of the PEs.
The first objective of this system will be to enable the management of each
enterprise to improve its performiance analysis. Each enterprise will
participate fully in the development of the MIS. A periodic performance
chart (tableau de bord) will also be introduced to follow up on the impact
of the parapublic sector on public finance and other economic variables
such as the balance of payments and domestic and external debt.
Enterprises
12.   The SCEP will make detailed studies of enterprises in order to
determine the types of reform required. These studies will establish the
desirability of privatization, closure or technical and financial recovery
of the enterprise. The studies will be made for given subsectors or
individual enterprises. In the first phase, a diagnostic study will be
made of the enterprise (where one has not been made recently), making it
possible to identify strategic options and implement an urgent action plan.
In the second phase, a rehabilitation program and an action plan will be
prepared.  The action plan will include a contract plan, a privatization or
liquidation program or any other plan to resolve the problems of the
enterprise, as appropriate.



Annex VI
Page 4 of 6
13.   The Government intends to reorient the following enterprises (or
subsectors):
14.   Reintegration or subsidization of enterprises of socioeconomic
significance but whose financial prospects are poor:
Enterprise                        Subsector
CPI                               Studies
LAPHAVET (laboratory)             Veterinary pharmaceutical laboratory
ONT                               Promotion of tourism
15.   Closing down of unprofitable enterprises that are not vital to the
public sector:
Enterprise                        Subsector
AGRIBAL                           Agricultural development
SUPOBU                            Fishery
SOMEBU                            Studies
SOBECOV                           Warehousing/trade
16.   The enterprises to be rehabilitated in priority by SCEP (in
accordance with action plans to be defined) are the following:
Enter2rise                        Subsector
CADEBU                            Savings association
ONAPHA                            Pharmaceutical products
OTRABU                            Road transportation
OTRACO                            Urban transportation
VERRUNDI                          Glass factory
17.   For other selected PEs, the SCEP will formulate (with support from
the Bank) a rehabilitation and support program to be. submitted for
Government's approval. Special emphasis will be placed on the trade and
tourism subsectors. The criteria for selecting the enterprises to be
studied for rehabilitation will include the following factors: size
(financial and number of jobs involved); negative cash flow, other negative
financial indicators; specific management problems; and activities of
possible interest to the private sector.
18.   If necessary, the SCEP will make strategic planning studies for the
following large enterprises:
Enterprise                        Subsector
BCC                               Coffee
COGERCO                           Cotton
COTEBU                            Textiles
OCIBU                             Coffee
ONATEL                            Telecommunications
OTB                               Tea



Annex VI
Page 5 of 6
These studies will use as basic information all previous studies on
these enterprises.
Supplementary Measures
Sector Policy
19.   The autonomy of PE management will be strengthened by performance
contracts reflecting the objectives agreed by the enterprise with the
Government; a post riori monitoring will be emphasized.
20.   This autonomy of management will include, but not be limited to, the
following aspects: hiring of personnel which will be left to the managers
of each enterprise; setting of a salary scale for each enterprise, approved
by its Board of Directors and after discussion with the SCEP; introduction
of productivity bonuses according to a system still to be defined; reducing
unnecessary staff; and allocation of net profits to reserves, investment or
dividends.
21.   No new PEs will be established unless: (i) they are required for the
public good; (ii) the activity has limited appeal for private investors;
and (iii) medium-term profitability is acceptable. Feasibility studies
will be made and will take into account these criteria. Prior to any major
investment in a PE, the Government will study the possibility that such an
investment be carried out by the private sector.
22.   The State will support only projects whose public utility has been
demonstrated and whose return is deemed adequate on the basis of a
feasibility study. In these cases the State support will be stated in v
contract plan. The State will make it clear that there is no implicit
guarantee.
Enterprises
23.   The performance contract to be prepared for eac- enterprise selected
for rehabilitation or strategic planning will include the specific
objectives of the enterprise, the strategy to be adopted, an evaluation of
costs and multi-year targets for results of operations, type of government
monitoring and the degree of enterprise autonomy, amount of resources
contributed by the State, and a system of productivity bonuses based
performance criteria appropriate for the activity in question.
24.   The Government will restructure the financial bases of certain
enterprises deficient in that respect, through an increase in authorized
capital. This will make it possible to lower the debt-equity ratio and
guarantee longer-term financial viability.
25.   The Government will establish an Intervention Fund to finance the
rehabilitation of selected PEs. This Fund will be financed through the
counterpart funds from the SAL and placed at the BNDE (National Bank for
Economic Development). The Fund's operations will be based on an action
plan drawn up for each enterprise. The Fund will be able to finance



Annex VI
Page 6 of 6
various types of activities, including rehabilitation investments, purchase
of parts or raw materials, training or retraining of personnel, technical
assistance and increases in the enterprise working capital. The Fund will
disburse in the form of equity or loans.
26.   The Government will ensure that cross debts between PEs and.between
PEs and the State are cancelled.
Source: President's Report no. P-4250-BU



ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
BURUNDI
POLICY STATEMENT ON PUBLIC EXPENDITURE HANAGEMENT
1.       One of the objectives of the Government's structural adjustment
program Is to imprcve the efficiency of the public sector resources,
including public enterprises and public expenditure program. The action
plan for the public enterprise sector has been spelled out in the Policy
Statement on Public Enterprises. The present statement deals with the
action program envisaged for the management of the public expenditure
program.
Objective
2.       In the recent years, Burundi's public finance situation has been
characterized by considerable fluctuations in revenues (heavily dependent
on coffee) and an ambitious investment program. This situation has led to
serious budgetary deflcits, excessive use of central bank financing,
growing external debt and consequent increase in debt service. While some
measures have been taken in the past few years their effect has been
partial and the Government is aware of the need to implement a coherent
program to control public expenditures to a level compatible with resource
availabilities and stabilization needs, and to increase the efficiency
of public spending. With this objective, policy action will be taken on
the following areas: (a) budgetary reform; (b) project preparation and
selection; and (c) strengthening of budget-planning capacity.
Budgetary Reform
3.       The present budgetary system is composed of two budgets: the
ordinary budget (DO) and the extraordinarylinvestment budget (BEI). The
bulk of the tax and non-tax (administrative) revenues are affected to the
30 to finance recurrent expenditures and repayment of public debt. The BEI
is allocated special taxes from coffee and beer, dividends from the
parastatals and a fixed amount of central Bank financing (P3U 2 billion)
included in the BEI as regular annual revenue. The BEI finances mostly
capital expenditures (including counterpart funds for projects financed by
foreign aid), and some other Items, such as exceptional contributions to
regional organizations, and some payments of arrears. Investment
expenditures financed by foreign aid are not shown in either budget.
Preparation of the BO is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance; the
BEI is prepared by the Ministry of Planning. The Ministry of Finance is
responsible for the execution of both budgets.
4.       This system has several drawbacks for an efficient management of
the public expenditures program. In particular, it does not include the
expenditures financed by foreign aid (loans and grants), and no provisions
are made for recurrent expenditures associated with investment projects.
Moreover, the separated allocation of resources to each budget, and the
classification of banking financing as revenue of the BEI distort the
public finance picture making it difficult for the Government to obtain a



ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
global view of its expenditure program, to program investment expenditures
as a function of public savings, and to adjust the expenditure program to
fluctuations of revenues. Moreover, the requirements of on-going and new
projects in terms of recurrent expenditures are not systematically
programed.
5.       To make the budget an efficient tool of macro-economic management,
the Government intends to Implement the following reforms during 1986:
(a) adoption of an unified system of budget preparation (before
publishing the BO and BE) with clear separation of current
revenues, current expenditures (excluding repayments of debt),
identification of current balance and capital expenditures
financed both from the budget and foreign aid. Disbursements
of domestic and foreign loans (net of repayments) will be
classified as deficit financing items. Capital grants will be
classified as government revenues. Public revenues would not
be affected to any particular part of the program, with the
possible exception of some Funds which have been temporarily
set for operational purposes (i.e. Road Fund);
(b) a comprehensive three-year public expenditures program (PEP)
for 1987-89 will be prepared including for each budgetary
category (executing agency) recurrent and capital
expenditures. This would permit a better planning and
programming of resources to finance central administration
expenditures, social services, maintenance of the State fixed
assets, and future recurrent expenditures associated with on-
going and new investment projects. The annual budget to be
presented to the National Assembly would correspond to the
first year of the three- year budget, but would include only
revenues accruing from local sources and expenditures financed
by domestic revenues (e.g. foreign aid financed expenditures
would not be included in the Budget Law to be submitted to the
National Assembly);
(c) the public investment program would include a 'core" program
of projects of highest priority for which full funding would
be assured. A non-core (stand-by) program would be
simultaneously prepared; this would be financed if additional
resources became available. The core projects would be those
with the highest rate of return and reflect the development
priorities of the Government in terms of Inter-sectorial
allocation. All projects above US$3 million would be subject
to feasibility studies (prepared by the Government or donors)
according to guidelines provided by the Government. Those
feasibility analyses would be discussed with the technical
ministries to ensure that the Government's priorities and
criteria are taken into account in selecting development
projects.
(d) in establishing the level of the investment program the
Government will attend to the following aspects: (i) it must



ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
not lead to a level of indebtedness that could jeopardize the
country's creditworthinesu; (ii) should be consistent with a
balanced budget and need minimal bank credit; (iii) its
foreign currency part would be financed through grants or
concessional loans.
Source: President's Report n0 P-4250-BU
Annex XI
BURUNDI
Economic and Public Enterprise Management Project
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Preparation mission - Aide Hemoire, May, 1986
2.   Appraisal mission - Aide Memoire, November, 1986
3.   Legal text creating the SCEP
4.   Terms of Reference for SCEP and related Technical Assistance,
November, 1986
5.   SCEP work program 1987
6.   Assessment of the Planning System - Consultant Report, November, 1986
7.   Detailed cost tables
8.   Public Enterprises Sector Review 1982 - Consultant Report
9.   Public Enterprises Sector Review 1986 - Consultant Report
10. SAL report, 1985
11.  Burundi Economic Memorandum, 1984
12. The PE sector in Burundi - J. Ollivier, 1986
13.  Inventaire du secteur Para-Public du Burundi -
NDABAHAGAMYE, 1986



Annex VIII
Page 1 of 1
SNES WORK PROGRAM
1.    Preparation of National Accounts.  SNES will prepare National
Accounts at current and constant prices based on information provided by
enterprises in the modern sector and governmental agencies, and on
estimates for the agricultural and informal sector.
2.    Economic Indicators for follow up of the Structural Adjustment
Program. These include monthly estimates of main macroeconomic variables
which are needed for the Comite de Suivi to follow up on implementation and
economic impact of the ongoing and future Government's structural
adjustment program. Those indicators include:
- consumer price indexes for main urban areas
- consumer price indexes for rural areas
- prices for main agricultural crops in urban and rural markets
- industrial production, value added, and exports
- monetary and credit statistics
- public finance revenues and expenditures
- demands for investment
- creationlliquidation of new enterprises
- demand of employment
- imports and exports by main categories
- transport and energy statistics
In addition to the elements collected by SNES itself, this work would
require collection of elements from different ministries, according to pre-
established formats to be readily available to the Comite de Suivi. It
requires coordination and establishment of procedures that can be
systematically followed.
3.    Collection of Rural Price Index.  This work would require: analysis
of the surveys currently being done in one or two provinces to assess their
adequacy and timing; compatibility between price surveys and consumption
basket identified through the household surveys; establishment of a
computer program to facilitate the production of such monthly indexes.
4.    Analysis of rural household surveys and preparation of reports with
main findings. Help local staff in methodological aspects and
presentational matters.
5.    Preparation of methodology and survey methods to initiate work on
competition between food and export crops. This work involves the design
of a very detailed analysis of allocation of time and production factors of
farmers among alternative crops. It would be conducted in representative
areas growing coffee, tea, and cotton.
6.    Preparation of annual Statistical Yearbook.  The task involves
definition of contents of the report, in coordination with the Ministry of
Planning and main users, calendar and distribution of responsibilities, as
well as the writing up of methodology notes. It would include all relevant
statistics enumerated above for the monthly report, plus data on external
debt, public investment, project implementation (in financial tens).



Annex IX
Page 1 of 1
PRELIMINARY LIST OF STUDIES
Agricultural
- Commercialisation dCc produits vivriers *
- Extension du projet Kirundo verS lea communes de Muranvya et Karusi **
Transportation
- Route Gitega-Muyinga **
- Route Gitega-Ngozi **
- Route Kirungo-Frontiere Rwanda **
- Route Mwnro-Gitega ***
- Route Rumange-Bururi Ruzira***
- Route Muzinda-Ndora ***
- Route Mabanda-Frorntiere Tanzanie "*
Commerce and Industry
- Etude sur le commerce inter-regienal ****
- Schema directeur de l'lindustrialisation****
- Zone franche industrielle *
Mines
- Etude sur le phosphate ***
- Nickel (Geologique) *
- Vanedium **
- Exploitation et utilisation du caolin *
Other Studies
The credit would finance other studies needed for the preparation of the
SAL II.
*      Marketing Study
**     Engineering Study
***    Feasibility Study
****   Sectoral Study



ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
Total
Projoct Element                      Procurement Method                   Cost
ICB      LCB      Other    N.A.
--           ----(US$ million)-------------
Vehicles and Equipment         0.2      0.1        0.1                     0.4
(0.2)               (0.1)                   (0.3)
Training                                           0.7                     0.7
(0.5)                   (0.5)
Technical Assistance                               5.9                     5.9
(5.7)                   (5.7)
Operating Cost                                              0.8            0.8
(0.5)         (0.5)
SUB-TOTAL               0.2       0.1       6.7       0.8            7.8
(0.2)               (6.3)    (0.5)          (7.0)
Refunding of Project                                        0.5            0.5
Preparation Advance                                       (0-5)          (0.5)
TOTAL               0.2      0.1        6.7       1.3            8.3
(0.2)               (6.3)    (1.0)          (7.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Assocation.



Annex XI
BURUNDI
Economic and Public Enterprise ManaRement Proiect
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Preparation mission - Aide Memoire, May, 1986
2.   Appraisal mission - Aide Memoire, November, 1986
3.   Legal text creating the SCEP
4.   Terms of Reference for SCEP and related Technical Assistance,
November, 1986
5.   SCEP work program 1987
6.   Assessment of the Planning System - Consultant Report, November, 1986
7.   Detailed cost tables
8.   Public Enterprises Sector Review 1982 - Consultant Report
9.   Public Enterprises Sector Revinw 1986 - Consultant Report
10. SAL report, 1985
11. Burundi Economic Memorandum, 1984
12.  The PE sector in Burundi - J. Ollivier, 1986
13.  Inventaire du sect_-ur Para-Public du Burundi -
NDABAHAGAMYE, 1986






