Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15161
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE CREDIT
(CREDIT NO.1795-BUI)
DECEMBER 6, 1995
Country Operations Division 2
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Burundi Franc (FBu)
1987:   US$1.00      =      FBu 123.6
1988:   US$1.00      =      FBu 140.4
1989:    US$1.00     =      FBu 158.7
1990:   US$1.00      =      FBu 171.3
1991:   US$1.00      =      FBu 181.5
1992:   US$1.00      =      FBu 208.3
1993:   US$1.00      =      FBu 242.7
1994:   US$1.00      =      FBu 252.7
1995:   US$1.00      =      FBu 241.7 (first trimester)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CADEBU                        Caisse d'Epargne du Burundi
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
COTEBU                        Complexe Textile de Bujumbura
EMPEC                         Economic Management and Public Enterprise Credit
IIDF                           Institutional Development Fund
INABU                         Imprimerie Nationale du Burundi
ISGE                          Institut Superieur de Gestion d 'Entreprises
MOF                            Minister of Finance
MOP                           Minister of Planning
ONATEL                        Office National des Thkcommunications
OTRABU                        Office des Transports du Burundi
OTRACO                         Office des Transports en Commun
PEP                           Public Expenditure Program
PIP                           Public Investment Program
REGIDESO                      Regie de Distribution d 'Eau et D 'Electricite
SAC                            Structural Adjustment Credit
SCEP                          Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques
SOSUMO                        Societe Sucriere du Moso
VERRUNDI                       Verrerie du Burundi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................
SUMMARY EVALUATION ................................................ii
PART I: EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................................1
I.   Project Objectives and Design      ..I
II. Project Activities and Results                     .       .       .       2
III.  Analysis of Factors That Affected Project Execution         .     .      5
IV. Sustainability of Results                       .        .        .        8
V.   Performance of The Bank and The Government                                8
VI.  Future Operations                                                        10
VII. Lessons and Conclusions ....................  10
PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:     Summary of assessments
Table 2:     Related IDA Credits
Table 3:     Project timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key implementation indicators
Table 6:     Key execution indicators (N.A.)
Table 7:     Project studies
Table 8a:    Project costs
Table 8b:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:    Bank resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:    Bank missions
ANNEXES
A. Mission Aide-memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|offcial duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE CREDIT
(Credit No. 1795-BUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the fourth technical
assistance credit (the Economic Management and Public Enterprise Credit, or EMPEC) to
Burundi, for which IDA financing in the amount of SDR 6 million was approved on May
14, 1987.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995, 30 months after the initial closing date
(December 31, 1992), with an undisbursed balance of SDR 434,000; it was extended three
times. No co-financing was made available for this project.
This ICR was prepared by Ms. Vera Wilhelm, Country Economist, with
contributions from the Burundi Resident Mission (Messrs. Prosper Nindorera and
Frangois Nankobogo), under the supervision of Mr. Michael Sarris, Division Chief (all of
AF3C2). It was reviewed by Mr. P. Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser (AF3DR).
Preparation time was three months.
A draft of this report was discussed with the authorities.  The government
contribution was received on November 30, 1995.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE CREDIT
(Credit No. 1795-BUI)
SUMMARY EVALUATION
Political Setting
1.    Burundi's economic and social progress has, since independence, been derailed by
repeated ethnic strife among its two main ethnic groups, the Tutsi (14%) and the majority
Hutu (85%). In June 1993, the country held its first presidential and parliamentary
elections, in which candidates from the primary Hutu party (Frodebu) won. The new
government quickly consolidated its power through major staffing changes in the civil
service and local administration. In October 1993, the President and other key officials
were assassinated. Widespread ethnic upheaval left some 100,000 dead and 200,000
displaced within the country, and caused an additional 800,000 to seek safety in
neighboring countries. In April 1994, the new President was killed in an airplane crash
together with the President of Rwanda; the composition of the government has changed
twice since then. Over the last two years, the situation has remained unstable, with a
serious breakdown in the rule of law and continued civil unrest and ethnic violence.
Technical Assistance For Economic Reform
2.    During the latter half of the 1970s, Burundi embarked on a development strategy
predicated on public investment and widespread creation of public enterprises, financed by
relatively abundant resources derived from strong market prices for coffee (80% of export
earnings). The steady weakening of coffee prices since the early 1980s led to a sharp
deterioration in the terms of trade and serious fiscal and monetary imbalances. Burundi
became increasingly dependent on external aid flows. It was in this context that the
structural adjustment program -- supported by three structural adjustment credits (SACs) -
- was launched to promote growth with poverty reduction. SACs I, II and III aimed at
liberalizing the external and monetary sectors, pursuing budgetary reform as well as
reform of public enterprises (PEs), and liberalizing prices of goods and public services.
SAC III also sought to put in place a social safety net, improve living conditions of the
population and introduce a more equitable financing strategy for education.



iii
3.    When SAC I was approved in May 1986, the Third Technical Assistance Credit
(Cr. 1456-BU, or TA III), supporting reforms to improve the appraisal of investment
projects and their implementation, had already been in place for two years. To facilitate
implementation of SAC I, the government requested a new technical assistance operation
from IDA with a special focus on PE reform and public sector management. The
Economic Management and Public Enterprise Credit (EMPEC) was signed in late 1987
and, for three years, was implemented simultaneously with TA III. EMPEC sought to
consolidate ongoing capacity building efforts under TA III aimed at better appraisal of
public investment projects, and improved  public expenditure programming  and
monitoring. Although originally designed to support SAC I implementation, it focused on
supporting the policy reform agendas of SACs II and III, approved in mid-1988 and mid-
1992, respectively, and activities were regularly adjusted to reflect the new priorities of
SACs II and III as they emerged.
4.    Overall, performance of EMPEC was weak. This was intimately linked to: (i) the
design and performance of the structural adjustment operations (in particular SACs II and
III) that it was intended to support; (ii) weak institutional capacity and lack of
performance-oriented incentives in the civil service; and (iii) Burundi's political
constraints.
(i) SAC II was designed and implemented under unfavorable circumstances. It had
been prepared quickly and without substantive participation of the authorities due to
an urgent balance of payments need; institutional capacity was too weak to implement
the large number of monitorable actions(90), and few civil servants were privy to the
program's contents.  Although SACIII was designed with active government
participation, its focus on reform of PE management (rather than privatization of
assets), as well as active support of a public agency to implement such reform,
contributed to the limited success in addressing the problems of the PE sector.
(ii) Throughout EMPEC implementation, institutional capacity building was affected
by the lack of a quality-oriented incentive structure, poor human resource
development and insufficient transparency and accountability in public sector
management. In spite of a UNDP project in 1990 to improve working conditions in
the civil ser  e, no reforms were carried out. Such shortcomings were reflected in
weak project implementation due to unsatisfactory project management and
coordination. EMlPEC's training component, moreover, was mostly ineffective in
raising capacity, having been designed without reference to a long-term training
strategy; trained staff, furthermore, were subject to high mobility.
(iii) As a result of the political process leading to the elections in 1993, government
focus on economic reform and capacity building declined, while numerous changes
within the administration caused a loss of technical capacity.  The onset of the
political crisis in late 1993 seriously damaged the functioning of the administration,
which continues to be plagued by absenteeism and a lack of qualified human
resources. Implementation of economic reforms came to a standstill; SAC III was
closed in June 1995 with only the first tranche disbursed.



iv
Credit Objectives and Design
5.    EMPEC  was intended to support the government in implementing public
enterprise reform and improving public resource management. Technical assistance was
to focus on: improved management of public enterprises; more transparent and efficient
resource allocation and expenditure management; and rationalization of public investment.
In 1991, the project was amended to support the Ministry of Labor in data collection and
implementation of a professional reconversion program for employees expected to be laid
off in the context of public enterprise reform. Credit objectives were in line with the need
for strengthening institutional capacity necessary for implementing structural adjustment
reform. The project included extensive training activities, the creation of consultative
committees for project implementation and economic strategy formulation, and provision
of advisory services to compensate for the lack of institutional experience. However,
EMPEC was prepared prematurely insofar as it could not benefit from the lessons of the
preceding (third) technical assistance credit, which, although then still ongoing and
believed successful, was closed three years later with an undisbursed balance of SDR
590,000 and deemed a failure. In expenditure programming reform, the project relied
heavily on foreign and local technical assistance to develop systems that failed to be
internalized by the administration.
6.    Moreover, the flawed design of the SACs weakened EMPEC's own design and
outcome. Public enterprise reform was initially aimed at rehabilitating and strengthening
management, under the direction of an administrative unit (SCEP) in charge of reform.
This approach reflected the thinking at the time, but experience has shown that
management reform in PEs often does not produce lasting results and suggests that
technical support should have instead been provided towards privatization by privatization
facilitators (e.g. merchant banks, investment advisors and venture capital funds) rather
than a public sector unit. The latter approach, however, faced severe constraints in
Burundi as the market for privatization is small and the investment climate unfavorable;
for unprofitable PEs, besides, liquidation was the better alternative. In addition, SCEP
was responsible for monitoring PE performance as well as preparing a privatization
program, an agenda that was too ambitious.
Project Activities and Results
7.    The project was to: (i) launch the operations of SCEP; (ii) help improve the
institutional framework and performance of public enterprises; (iii) support the
rehabilitation of particular PEs; (iv) strengthen the existing planning system; (v) help
design a unified budget system in the Ministry of Finance; (vi) strengthen the Ministry of
Labor in designing a reconversion program for public employees who were laid off, and
(vii) provide training in support of the above activities.



v
8.    The impact of EMPEC, judged on its own merits, is difficult to measure as project
results were closely linked to the outcomes of SACs II and III. Moreover, implementation
targets were set mostly in qualitative terms, through process-oriented action plans rather
than quantitative monitoring indicators. The project helped strengthen the technical
capacity of the SCEP, and assisted it in establishing a computerized data base on public
enterprises, in financing diagnostic studies and action plans for PE rehabilitation and in
preparing management performance contracts. It funded preparation of a pilot public
expenditure program in eight sector ministries, and helped institute a unified budget
system and public accounting framework. The project allowed the carrying out of training
activities, including the launching of the Institute of Business (ISGE) whose graduates
were expected to be prepared, inter alia, for managerial responsibilities in PEs. The
project financed training activities in the Ministry of Planning and the SCEP and a large
number of studies (34) and audits (12). In spite of these activities, the internalization of
objectives was weak as implementation units and committees did not assume their
responsibilities and training activities were carried out without a strategy in place. Reports
(for example on training activities and project execution) were not delivered and
disbursements, accounting and auditing were delayed.  The reconversion program,
although completed, was never implemented due to the lack of progress in the SAC III-
supported privatization program.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
9.    Right from the start, the project experienced implementation difficulties in such
areas as planning, procurement, accounting and auditing. A major problem was the high
turnover among civil servants, resulting in insufficient experience with Bank procedures
and poor internalization of assistance provided not only under previous TA operations but
even during EMPEC itself. With the outbreak of the political crisis, implementation of
reforms came to a halt and the performance of the administration deteriorated, as a result
of widespread absenteeism.
10.   Project management, under purview of the Director General of Planning, did not
receive adequate attention, for a combination of reasons: high turnover among project
managers (eight from project signing to completion); the typically heavy responsibilities of
the Director General, encompassing numerous areas other than project management; and
insufficient commitment to project objectives. During the early years, project audits were
produced with delays, while project accounts were not well maintained. This situation
improved in 1991 for the accounts of SCEP and in 1993 for all remaining accounts. Over
the life of the project, the quality of implementation improved, with the recruitment of a
project accountant and implementation unit in July 1992, long after the Bank initially
voiced its concerns and made a recommendation regarding the deficiency.
11.   The quality of TA provided was to be measured by the extent to which adjustment
measures supported by EMPEC were implemented, as independent performance indicators
were not specified; the adjustment agenda, however, never realized its objectives. Reform
of public resource management and PE restructuring met with strong resistance within the



vi
government and bureaucracy. Such a risk had been anticipated, but was underestimated
and inadequately addressed. Expatriate and local TA sought to compensate for this
resistance by substituting for civil servants, but in line with experience, this approach was
unsuccessful: the main ingredient missing was general commitment to reform at the
ministerial and senior civil servant levels. In using primarily local technical assistance,
however, the project contributed to human resource development and expanding local
technical expertise, at least within the country, if not the administration (i.e. mobility to
private sector); the progress is therefore believed to be sustainable, albeit modest in
relation to the resources used. Also, the public expenditure programming instruments
developed under the project still provide a good basis for future work. For the PE
component, the project put too much emphasis on strengthening the bureaucracy (SCEP)
rather than operating through private sector agencies (banks, trust funds, investment
advisors).
12.   Support for capacity building is currently being provided under an Institutional
Development Fund (IDF) grant signed in 1994 for US$ 300,000. A new technical
assistance operation is not envisaged in the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy. If
the political and security situation were to improve, however, the resumption of the
reform process would be high on the agenda, and an institutional assessment would be
programmed to develop an action plan to strengthen public sector capacity. Meanwhile,
using IDF resources, workshops on privatization and divestiture -- with public and private
sector participation -- are being programmed to generate consensus on PE reform as a
first, and admittedly difficult, step towards any future operations.
Lessons and Conclusions
13.   In conclusion, despite progress that has been made in a number of areas, the
project's overall outcome has to be rated unsatisfactory. Reform of the budget and public
accounting system and improved labor statistics collection that could help monitor
economic performance, remained limited in scope. Much of the reform agenda is still
unfinished, with respect to budget and PE reform, investment project appraisal, and
training with a strategic focus. The reasons that limited the success of the project fall into
two categories: (i) political and social constraints and (ii) project design. The political
environment was unfavorable, marked by: the government's weak commitment to reform
that resulted, in part, from a limited participation in design and preparation of the project;
the political transition; and ultimately, the outbreak of crisis in October 1993.  An
important constraint to PE reform -- that should clearly have been foreseen -- originated in
Burundi's ethnic divisions and resulting attitudes towards privatization and its effect on
the balance of power in the country. As EMPEC's underlying objective was to facilitate
implementation of the adjustment program, the project was held hostage to the success of
a reform agenda that was politically very sensitive and in some areas too ambitious.
Project design reflected the premature preparation of EMPEC, as lessons could not be
drawn from the ongoing TA III (in particular in problem areas such as project
management and training).



vii
14.   The lessons from EMPEC are many, including first and foremost, that capacity-
building activities require the active participation and involvement of governments and
stakeholders in order to yield good results. The design of such activities, moreover,
should devote greater attention to specifying project objectives clearly, establishing a
sound link between project objectives and components, defining project components
precisely, and allowing for sufficient time to be able to build on lessons from the past.
Specific performance monitoring indicators are necessary to facilitate effective project
supervision. Training activities need to be transparent and placed within a medium-term
training strategy. A positive outcome was derived from the use of local technical
assistance which led to the development of know-how and human resources in the
country.
15.   An important lesson may be drawn from the experience with PE reform: where the
means available to address a serious risk (resistance to privatization) can at best be
superficial or only partial (consultative committees to create consensus), project objectives
and targets should be lowered to reflect the uncertainty of success. In addition, although
the adjustment program's privatization techniques were consistent with the thinking of
those years, recent experience gained in Africa and Eastern Europe teaches that
privatization of assets, or of management through concessions, is generally preferable to
the performance contract approach; involvement of the bureaucracy should be minimized;
support should be provided to reform the legal framework; and a well-designed
information campaign should be conducted to help prepare and sensitize the public for
privatization. Moreover, it appears right to question whether linking technical assistance
projects so tightly with structural adjustment operations is appropriate; free-standing,
well-focused technical assistance, in selected areas of need, might have a better chance for
success in the medium term.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE CREDIT
(Credit No. 1795-BUI)
PART I: EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.    With an estimated population of about 5.8 million inhabiting an area of 25,734 sq.
km, Burundi had in 1993 a population density of 225 persons per sq.km, about ten times
the average for sub-Saharan Africa. Annual population growth of 3.1% is among the
fastest on the continent. About 94% of the population lives in rural areas. The population
consists of two main ethnic groups, the Tutsis and the Hutus, the latter accounting for
85% of the total. Burundi has been plagued by repeated ethnic strife (1965, 1969, 1972,
1988, 1991 and 1993/94), which has prevented the country from achieving its full
potential. In June 1993, the country held its first presidential and parliamentary elections,
in which candidates from the primary Hutu party (Frodebu) won. The new government
moved swiftly to consolidate its power through major staffing changes in the central and
local administration. Three months after taking office, the President and other key
officials were assassinated. Widespread ethnic upheaval left some 100,000 dead and
200,000 displaced within the country, and caused an additional 800,000 to seek safety in
neighboring countries. In April 1994, the then appointed President was killed in an
airplane crash together with the President of Rwanda. A new President and government
were named in October 1994, but the composition of the government changed again when
a new Prime Minister took office in February 1995. Over the last two years, the situation
has remained unstable, with continued civil unrest and ethnic violence.
1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
2.    EMPEC was designed to support the implementation of reforms under SACs I and
II and was later slightly modified to facilitate the preparation and implementation of SAC
III. It aimed at helping to consolidate reforms already pursued under the Third Technical
Assistance Credit (TA III) and introduced the strengthening of public enterprise (PE)
management as a new area of capacity building in Burundi. Its four main objectives were
to: (i) launch the operation of the unit in charge of PE reform (SCEP) in order to create a
PE management information system, conduct diagnostic studies, foster the ongoing



2
rehabilitation process and develop a consistent strategy for public enterprise reform; (ii)
support budgetary reform and public investment programming; (iii) develop planning and
project appraisal capacity and launch the preparation of pre-investment studies; and (iv)
strengthen data collection on labor market and social indicators. When the project was
amended in 1991, a component was included to prepare a rehabilitation program for the
training of staff laid off by public enterprises and to support the statistical unit in the
Ministry of Labor. To achieve all these objectives, the project provided short-, medium-,
and long-term technical assistance and training inside the country and abroad.
3.    In line with the PE reform agenda of SACs I and II -- which focused on preparing
studies, liquidating bankrupt enterprises and rehabilitating others expected to become
profitable over the medium term -- EMPEC was to focus mainly on establishing SCEP
and making it operational. Privatization of public enterprises and the development of a
related strategy became an objective only during the preparation of SAC III, when the
government committed itself to privatize the capital or management of selected PEs by the
time of effectiveness and second tranche release. The project supported SCEP to help it
perform its two new functions: monitoring and supervising PEs as well as preparing the
privatization program.
4.    Technical assistance (TA) in the areas of budget reform, expenditure planning and
programming, and project evaluation reflected the needs detected during the
implementation of SAC I, and was subsequently adjusted to meet the targets set under
SACs II and III.  Related activities, to improve Burundi's planning capacity by
emphasizing project preparation, monitoring and evaluation, had already been the
objective of the preceding technical assistance credit. However, as EMPEC was approved
before the closing of TA III (which had disbursed less than 40% at that time), it did not
have the benefit of the recommendations made by that project's completion report on
problem areas such as training and project management; indeed, judging from the
President's report for EMPEC, the First, Second and Third Technical Assistance projects
in Burundi were then all believed successful.
II. PROJECT ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS
A.    Overall Results
5.    Some partial advances were made, marking steps that were necessary but far from
sufficient in meeting the depth and breadth of the reform objectives envisaged. Thus,
EMPEC helped: in public enterprise reform, to strengthen the technical capacity of SCEP;
in expenditure planning and programming, to create the necessary instruments (PIP and
PEP), in part by funding the preparation of a pilot PEP in seven sector ministries; in
budget reform, to institute a unified budget system and accounting framework, and in
financing many training activities and seminars; and in the labor component, to support the



3
creation of a data base on labor markets and employment. The project provided about
212 staff months of TA, compared to a targeted objective of 265 (the shortfall being due
to partial TA financing by another donor). A total of 34 studies was carried out, including
18 on privatization. Overall, however, the management of PEs did not improve; project
appraisal capacity has remained weak; and the preparation of PEPs has not been
internalized by the administration.  Capacity building through training activities was
generally unsuccessful.
B.    Project Activities
Public Enterprise Reform
6.    The project provided support to SCEP, which had been created in 1986. It helped
SCEP establish a data base on PEs in 1988, complete an inventory of all PEs in 1989, and
install a computerized PE management system in 1990. It contributed to the launching of
the Institute of Business (Institut Superieur de Gestion d Entreprises, ISGE). It financed
diagnostic studies with the objective of establishing an action plan and performance
indicators that were easy to monitor. The legal framework for PEs was revised with the
help of two legal decrees in July and December 1988 to provide for more managerial
autonomy. The project helped create a PE performance evaluation system (1991) to
foster the quality of PE management (which involved the government, the Board of the
enterprise and the oversight, or tulelle, ministry). As SCEP assumed the key role in
implementing the privatization strategy, EMPEC upgraded the unit with the help of two
foreign technical assistants. In order to implement the para-public sector reform quickly
and successfully, SCEP was restructured during the preparation of SAC III in 1992 and
most of its staff contracted out, under the supervision of Kost International, a consulting
group hired to provide technical assistance from 1993 to 1995.
7.    Despite these measures, success in implementing PE reform was limited by a
variety of factors. The privatization strategy formulated in SAC III was not implemented,
due partly to vested interests and the lack of government commitment. In Burundi's
ethnically divided society, resistance to the program reflected attitudes not so much
towards economic efficiency as towards the implied shift in the balance of power. The
program's design was flawed, moreover, and its objectives overambitious. Also important
were problems of financing, related to difficulties in raising local and foreign investment
capital, as well as a complicated institutional and legal framework, the latter aimed more at
protecting those involved in the process than supporting successful privatization. The
recommendations of studies and management contracts were applied either partially or not
at all. As competition remained virtually non-existent in the PE sector, steps taken to
replace senior management and create performance incentives with the help of
management contracts and training programs had little impact on efficiency and output.
Seven years after the start of EMPEC, management of PEs has not improved. The new
draft privatization law has not yet been adopted by parliament. Since 1993, the financial
health of a number of PEs has deteriorated further, due both to the political and economic
crisis and to continued poor management.



4
Budget Reform: Public Investment and Expenditure Programming
8.    Budgetary reforms started in 1989 resulted in the adoption of a unified budget
integrating investment and current expenditures in 1992. However, budget reviews still
do not provide information on the execution of all expenditures. As the functional
breakdown proposed for budgetary classification has not been fully adopted, and with the
growing number of autonomous agencies and offices benefiting from lump-sum
allocations, the transparency of budget allocations has remained limited.
9.    A Public Investment Program (PIP) produced by the civil service since 1988 has
provided a useful basis for donor coordination and project screening, although the quality
of the document needs to be improved. A methodology for the public expenditure
program (PEP) was prepared in 1990 with the assistance of a foreign consulting company,
and PEPs were prepared by a local consultant for four sectors for the 1992-94 period and
extended the following year to cover six sectors for the 1993-95 period. With the
outbreak of ethnic violence in 1993, the planned training of expenditure units within the
administration did not take place and expenditure programming stopped in all sectors with
the exception of agriculture. Since October 1993, the administration has made no real
effort to improve the PIP, reactivate the PEPs or internalize programming activities.
However, a new public accounting system was finalized in early 1995.
Project Planning and Appraisal
10.   In spite of efforts under the project to build capacity in the Ministry of Planning
and key sectoral ministries, project planning and appraisal capacity have remained weak.
Clear economic and financial selection criteria have been established, but most projects,
generally packaged by donors, continue to be included in the PIP in the absence of
satisfactory feasibility studies. A project evaluation unit in charge of feasibility and
sectoral studies was created late in 1991 but was ineffective, lacking both the capacity and
commitment to perform its functions. The component was closed down when project
funds were reallocated in 1993 to help implementation of SAC III.
Strengthening of Labor Ministry
11.   Actions taken in 1992 were limited to support for two subcomponents: (i)
improvement in compilation of labor statistics, to help monitor the progress of economic
performance under the structural adjustment program, and (ii) a retraining program for
employees expected to be laid off as part of PE restructuring. Under the first
subcomponent, financing was provided for ministry staff to attend a number of training
courses in and outside the country. Collection and organization of labor statistics were
improved. Even though technical assistance helped design the reconversion program, the
second subcomponent did not materialize, as the government did not implement the PE
restructuring program.  As very few  enterprises were privatized after 1993, the
reconversion program was no longer a priority.



5
Training activities
12.   This component was by far the weakest, flawed in its design insofar as training
activities were not conceived as part of an overall training strategy. The project co-
financed the launching of the ISGE and then withdrew, before any outcome was realized.
Technical assistants were supposed to contribute substantially to capacity building by
training their national counterparts, but little was done in spite of frequent requests by
IDA. Civil servants in all ministries financed by the project attended several courses in and
outside the country; lacking strategic focus, however, the training had limited impact.
HI. ANALYSIS OF FACTORS THAT AFFECTED PROJECT EXECUTION
13.   The implementation of EMPEC was negatively affected by a number of factors,
including: flaws in the design, as well as conception, of the adjustment operations it was
meant to support; the drain on already poor technical capacity brought about by the crisis;
political constraints; the high mobility of Bank task managers in the first years of the
project; and non-performing project management.
14.   Weak project design of SACs II and III (with respect to PE reform) affected the
project's outcome. Due to an urgent need for balance of payments support, SAC II had
been prepared quickly and without substantive participation by the authorities.
Implementation was handicapped by the excessive number of monitorable actions (90).
Although SAC III was prepared with broad participation by the authorities, the PE
component was weak: the timetable for reform was unrealistic, and weaknesses of the
PEs' institutional and legal framework were not fiilly assessed.. During SAC III, SCEP
was responsible for supervising and rehabilitating PEs as well as preparing a privatization
program; this agenda was too ambitious. Further, experience has shown that management
reform often does not produce lasting results, as long as PEs' management is subject to
political influence. Although this experience was taken into account after the early years,
a comprehensive privatization program was developed only under SAC III, shortly before
the political situation impeded reform; that program, however, was overly ambitious and
poorly designed, and lacked government commitment.
15.   Finally, preparation of EMPEC did not benefit from the lessons learned in the
previous technical assistance operation. That credit, ultimately deemed a failure, closed
three years after EMPEC was approved, with an undisbursed balance of SDR 590,000; its
completion report, issued only in June 1993, cited lessons relating to the existing capacity
in the ministries, a formal monitoring system for the project, early training of staff in Bank
policies and procedures, supervision of all aspects of implementation, and the inclusion of
sectoral, organizational and administrative experts in supervision missions -- all lessons
from which EMPEC could have benefited. The use of EMPEC as a source of financing to
support the timely implementation of conditionality, under the structural adjustment



6
program, resulted in its being extended three times in spite of poor performance and
project management.
16.   Low technical implementation capacity remained a problem even in those areas
where training was carried out appropriately, as trained staff were subject to high mobility,
and were often replaced out of political considerations. Throughout EMPEC, civil service
performance was affected by the lack of a quality-oriented incentive structure and poor
human resource development. In addition, the executing agencies' limited knowledge of
Bank procedures during the project's early years slowed disbursement and caused delays
in project accounts and audits. Mostly to blame was the high turnover among civil
servants, a factor that also led to poor internalization of assistance provided not only
under previous TA operations but even during EMPEC itself
17.   Politicalfactors relate to the lack of sustained government commitment to public
sector, and more specifically PE, reform. Between 1988 and 1992, the government made
some advances -- many belatedly -- in implementing agreed reforms, related largely to the
satisfaction of conditions for the three tranches of SAC II and effectiveness of SAC III.
With the start of the pre-election period, however, government focus on economic reform
and capacity building fell off sharply, and the situation deteriorated with the outbreak of
the political crisis.
Factors Outside Government Control
18.   The drawbacks related to the political constraints were clearly beyond the control
of the authorities.  The project was negotiated in April 1987 shortly before a new
President and a new government came into power, which had a negative effect on
internalization and ownership. As mentioned above, the democratization campaign in
1988 and the pre-election period in early 1993 attracted attention away from economic
issues and caused delays in reform implementation. Finally, the first democratic elections
in June 1993 and subsequent assassination of the President marked the beginning of
economic decline and political instability, slowing down economic reform.
Factors Under Government Control
19.   Lack of commitment. Even after allowing for the effect of the political climate,
high-level authorities did not show much interest in the timely implementation of project
objectives. A number of examples illustrate this: (i) liquidation and privatization of PEs,
once agreed by the government, took over two years to be implemented (seven enterprises
with liquidation decrees signed between 1991-1994 are still under liquidation); (ii)
commitments entered into under PE management contracts were often not respected, in
particular with regard to tariff reform and non-interference by the government in
management issues; (iii) the revised 1991 privatization law, prepared in late 1993 and
aimed at streamlining the privatization process, has still not been promulgated; (iv) the
screening criteria for investment projects were not applied; and (v) no measures were
taken to provide consistency in project management and improve the functioning of the
units in charge of implementing various project components. Senior government officials



7
in charge of the project were replaced frequently. During the implementation period, the
Minister of Planning -- in charge of central project coordination -- changed eight times,
and the Director General of Planning and the Commissaire General du SCEP were each
replaced five times.
20.   Project implementation structure. Project management, under purview of the
Director General of Planning, did not receive adequate attention, for a combination of
reasons: high turnover among project managers; the typically heavy responsibilities of the
Director General, encompassing numerous areas other than project management; and
insufficient commitment to project objectives. The units that were put in charge of
implementing EMPEC components, in particular SCEP and the unit responsible for
investment project administration and studies, were also ineffective. In the early years,
this was mainly due to insufficient technical know-how and inexperience with IDA
procedures. EMPEC responded to SCEP's problems by providing technical training and
long-term foreign technical assistance, which helped increase the unit's capacity. The
quality of investment studies and sectoral investment strategies, however, remained
insufficient, as the responsible unit did not monitor their preparation or evaluate their
outcome -- a reflection of both weak capacity and commitment to project objectives. The
implementation unit also failed to establish project evaluation criteria requested under
EMPEC and, overall, to have a positive impact on investment project selection and
resource allocation. Partly to blame was the meager level of technical capacity; although
this risk was proposed to be addressed through systematic provision of staff training and
design of consultant services to promote learning by doing, these efforts fell clearly short
of their objective. The quality of project appraisal also suffered from the absence and/or
frequent change of the government officials in charge (minister, secretary of state and
director general).
21.   Training. Another factor responsible for the limited success of the project was
the absence of an overall training strategy. SCEP was virtually the only beneficiary of the
vast training activities offered annually under the project. It was only during the last years
of the project that training (on the job and through seminars) was provided for public
enterprise managers. For its part, external training was ill-conceived and could have been
more effective if SCEP had proposed greater participation in local training activities
instead of sending a limited number of senior civil servants for training abroad. The same
was true for the Ministry of Planning, where until 1992 all training took place abroad and
was limited to higher-level civil servants. For the remaining project components, no
training program was prepared until end-1993 in spite of frequent recommendations by
supervision missions. Overall, the effectiveness of training activities was limited, as staff
selected often changed assignments or obtained training in areas supportive of project
objectives but not always relevant to trainees' work.



8
IV. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
22.   Designed to support SACs II and III, EMPEC's success was directly affected by
the extent to which the adjustment measures were implemented. As the political will for
divestiture and more transparent management of PEs did not exist, the technical support
provided under the project had little impact in this area. The institutional capacity to
handle public expenditure programming instruments has remained low, but the pilot
programs that were developed under the project still provide a good basis for future work.
Budget reform that took effect in 1992 and the new accounting framework introduced in
1995 should sustain progress in these areas. The system of collecting labor statistics is also
a good basis for sustainable monitoring of the labor market. However, the situation in the
civil service has deteriorated, with spreading absenteeism and frequent staffing changes
that have served to further erode the limited impact of the training activities launched
under the project. In using primarily local technical assistance, the project has contributed
in some measure to human resource development and technical expertise within the
country -- a factor that could help support the government's strategy of increased
contracting-out of public services.
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT
23.   The Bank. The Bank devoted the time and resources necessary to support project
implementation. Four full missions for supervision under EMPEC took place between
1988 and 1992, in addition to regular supervision under SAC II. However, project
supervision suffered as task managers changed four times in the first four years of the
credit and responsibility for the project was transferred between divisions. Project design
did not facilitate supervision; the degree of progress was difficult to measure, as the
President's report did not identify specific performance indicators and only referred to
action plans to be carried out over the first two years.
24.   The project was extended the first time to cover financing needs for technical
assistance related to the delayed implementation of SAC II, and was expected to be closed
in 1992. In 1992, supervision was transferred to the Resident mission, and improved.
Disbursements increased, a number of budgetary reforms (new nomenclature and unified
budget) were implemented, and a new public accounting system was finalized. The
project's second and third extensions resulted from the financing need for technical
assistance created by SAC III. Then, project activities were directly linked to actions
required under the adjustment program (submission of public expenditure program,
signature of management contracts), and the project focused more on helping the
government fulfill conditionality than create lasting institutional capacity.



9
25.   In designing the project, the Bank tried to address the risk of low institutional
capacity through extensive training activities, and provision of advisory services to furnish
on-the-job training and substitute for the lack of institutional experience.  However,
training in some areas was either not provided or not internalized. Weak project
management, already a problem under TA III, had been addressed by the creation of units
in charge of implementing specific project components; however, as some of these units
were not efficient and the project coordinator did not fulfill his role, the Bank should have
made better use of the frequent extensions to bring about improved performance in this
area. On PE reform, the Bank did not account for the importance of an adequate
institutional framework for privatization and focused on improved management rather
than privatization.
26.   Overall, the Bank appears to  have underestimated  the risks related  to
administrative changes, vested interests and inertia within the government, as well as lack
of the basic commitment to PE divestiture and transparency. Cited in the President's
report, these risks were expected to be mitigated through establishment of a Consultative
Committee of senior public and private officials for the PE sector and a consultative
process in Planning/Programming/Budgeting matters to enable technical ministries to
voice their respective concerns; these solutions proved of no value, however. In addition,
the Bank prepared the operation prematurely -- when TA III had about 60% of its funds
left to disburse: awareness of problems plaguing that credit at the time could have helped
improve the design of EMPEC (for example, the choice of project coordinator).
27.   The Government.  The government had recognized early on that it had
insufficient technical capacity to implement the structural adjustment program and actively
participated in the design of the project. However, government participation was limited
to a few high-level civil servants who lacked the time for day-to-day project follow-up and
who were subsequently replaced, which left the project without a sound basis of
ownership. Government commitment was weak from the start as the authorities did not
respect, with the exception of SCEP, the procedures laid out in the credit agreement for
yearly preparation of annual training plans, work programs and progress reports.
28.   Project coordination and implementation were inadequate as the Ministry of
Planning did not perform its role, with project activities pursued individually by different
units. As a result, the Bank had no single interlocutor with whom to discuss project
matters, and project execution and recommendations made during supervision were not
followed up systematically. Overriding objectives, such as improving the efficiency of
administrative services and better use of training funds, were neglected. Civil servants'
inexperience with IDA procedures (reflecting high turnover) slowed project disbursements
and audits during the early years, while project accounts were not well maintained. This
situation improved in 1991 for the accounts of SCEP, and for all remaining accounts after
appointment of the project management unit in July 1992. Although long resistant to the
Bank's recommendations for improving accounts maintenance, the government moved to
resolve the matter only in response to tighter supervision by the Resident Mission (when
supervision changed hands) and the pressure brought to bear by the prospect of an
extension of the credit.



10
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS
29.   The objectives of the adjustment program, which EMPEC tried to support, remain
highly relevant, as explained in the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Public sector reform and a reduced role for the state, as well as a more efficient and
transparent allocation of public expenditures, lie at the heart of a development strategy for
Burundi. The CAS recommends the accomplishment of a number of measures which were
part of the reform agenda pursued under SAC III: (i) adoption of a new legal framework
for privatization; (ii) consensus building on divestiture; (iii) strengthening of capacity
within the civil service; and (iv) promotion of greater transparency of budget and public
investment management. Technical assistance support is currently being provided under
an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant signed in 1994 for US$ 300,000. In light
of the difficult political circumstances, the CAS does not envisage new capacity-building
operations.  If the political and security situation were to improve, however, the
resumption of the reform  process would be high on the agenda.  An institutional
assessment could be programmed to develop an action plan for strengthening public sector
capacity. Meanwhile, using IDF resources, workshops on economic reforms (including
privatization and divestiture) are planned, to generate consensus on improved economic
management before any future operations are initiated.
VII. LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS
30.   The reasons for the limited success of the project fall into two categories: (i)
political and social constraints and (ii) project design. Political constraints were reflected
both in the government's weak commitment to reform that resulted, in part, from a limited
participation in design and preparation, and in insufficient project management. Later on,
the political environment turned unfavorable with the political transitions, and ultimately,
the crisis. As EMPEC's underlying objective was to facilitate the implementation of the
adjustment program, the project was held hostage to the success of a reform agenda that
was politically very sensitive. With respect to PE reform in particular, resistance to
privatization -- reflecting attitudes towards its implications for the balance of power -- was
a fundamental problem that should clearly have been foreseen. Project design reflected
the premature preparation of the EMIPEC, as TA III had not been completed, and the
flawed design of the structural adjustment program. The latter was particularly true of PE
reform, which, in line with the views at the time, initially focused on management
contracts for PEs and support to SCEP, rather than on privatization of assets. When a
privatization program was finally prepared under SAC III, it overstretched the role of
SCEP, a government unit with no political power. Finally, for the project as a whole,
long-term technical assistance was insufficient to improve weak capacity, as it was not
internalized.



I1
31.   The lessons from EMPEC are many, including, first and foremost, that capacity-
building activities require the active participation and involvement of governments and
stakeholders in order to yield good results. Moreover, the Bank should prepare projects
carefully and allow for sufficient time to be able to build on lessons from the past. Specific
performance-monitoring indicators are necessary to facilitate effective project supervision.
Training activities need to be transparent and placed within a medium-term training
strategy. A positive outcome was derived from the use of local technical assistance which
led to the development of know-how and human resources in the country. However, the
transfer of technical expertise by both expatriate and local TAs to civil servants remained
limited. As a recent study on strengthening core functions within the government has
shown, long-term technical assistance to public institutions could be more effective if
replaced by partnerships and twinning arrangements.
32.   An important lesson may be drawn from the experience with PE reform: where the
means available to address a serious risk (resistance to privatization) can at best be
superficial or only partial (consultative committees to create consensus), project objectives
and targets should be lowered to reflect the uncertainty of success.  Regarding the
program's emphasis on management performance contracts, recent experience gained in
Africa and Eastern Europe teaches that: privatization of assets, or of management through
concessions, is generally preferable to the performance contract or contral-plan
approaches; involvement of the bureaucracy should be minimized; support should be
provided to strengthen the legal framework for privatization; and information and
communication  activities are necessary to prepare and sensitize the public.  More
generally, it appears right to question whether linking technical assistance projects so
tightly with structural adjustment operations is appropriate; well-focused, free-standing
technical assistance, in selected areas of need, might have a better chance for success in
the medium term.






PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION






Table 1:
Summary of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Obiectives           Substantial         Partial          Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic Policies
Sector Policies                           W                 X
Financial Objectives                                        X r
Institutional Development           L _              I _                I      X
Public Sector Management            _ _  _  _  _                               X
Private Sector Development                                                            I         X    7
Other (specify)                                                                          _   _  _  _
(B) Proiect Sustainabilitv                Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
x
Highly
(C) Bank Performance                    Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                    ll        x
Preparation Assistance                                      X
Appraisal                                                   X
Supervision                        l                 I    X*            |
Highly
(D) Borrower Performance                Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                                 X
Implementation                                                                 x
Covenant Compliance                                         X
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                               Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
__w              I    I I Xw
*After 1991



Table 2:
Related IDA Credits
Credit                              Credit                               Purpose                                  Year of        Status
Title                             Number                                                                        Approval
Preceding operations
1. Second  Technical Assistance                         917-BU         Improve planning and project preparation in the                     1979         Closed
ministries of Agriculture and Induatry, provide training
in statistics and project analysis; esablish pipeline of
feasible projecta thdt could be externally financed.
2. Third  Technical Assistance                          1456-BU    Improve project identification, preparation, evaluation                  1984        Closed
and monitoring in the Ministry of Planning; strengthen
the directorate for Agricultural planning of the Miniatry of
Agriculture (DGPA) to improve its capacity to handle project
cycle; provide training in statistics, project work and management
for the staff of DGPA.
3. Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC  1)                1705-BU        Strengthcn macroeconomic management; improve the                     1986        Closed
efficiency of public sector reaource management; rationalize
incentives for export growth
Following operations
1. Structural Adjustmnent Credit (SAC  II)              1919-BU        Pursue and strengthen SAC I objectives. SAC U also sought           1988         Closed
to accelerate supply reaponae to the new incentive structure,
including notably liberalization of the labor market and
deregulation of the fiancial sector.
2. Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC  III)    2376-BU                  Improve public resource management and access to                     1992        Closed
ocial evices; reduce fiacal deficit and non-developmental
expenditure; liberalize axternI transactions, agricultural
and factor markets; reform the regulatory, legal and
fiscal systems; maintain a "safety net" for social expenditure.



Table 3:
Proiect Timetable
Date                  Date actual
Steps in Project Cycle                        Planned u
Identification                                    April 1986                April 1986
Preparation                                       May - October 1986        May - October 1986
Appraisal                                         November 1986             November 1986
Negotiations                                      March 30, 1987            March 30, 1987
Letter of Development Policy                               n.a                       n.a
Board                                             May 1987                  May 14, 1987
Signing                                           June 1987                 October 9, 1987
Effectiveness                                      September 1987           January 6, 1988
Project completion                                June 30, 1992             June 30, 1995
Loan closing                                      December 31, 1992         June 30, 1995
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



Table 4:
Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
FY       FY        FY        FY         FY        FY        FY        FY        FY
1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
(US$ thousands, unless indicated otherwise)
appraisal estimate           300.0   1,800.0   3,800.0   5,800.0   7,300.0   7,500.0       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
actual disbursement              0     932.5   1,513.0   2,501.8   4,088.3   4,744.1   5,687.0   6,656.9   7,716.2
actual as % of estimate          0      51.8      39.8      43.1      56.0      63.3       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
Date of final disbursement  August 31, 1995



Table 5:
Key Indicators for Project ImDlementation
I. Key Implementation Indicators \1
Estimated          Actual
N.A.
II. Modified Indicators
Estimated          Actual
N.A.
III. Other Indicators
Estimated          Actual
1. Action Plan on SCEP                     implemented
2. Action Plan on Planning component        partially
implemented
3. Action Plan on Training                  not implemented
\1 As indicated in President's Report
Table 6:
Key Execution Indicators                   (N.A.)



Table 7:
Studies Included in the Proiect
Study                             Purpose *          Status             Impact of
Study
A. Strengthening of Public Enterprise
Management and Rehabilitation
1    Study for restructuring of OTRABU           Viability study         Completed Liquidated
2    Study for restructuring of Verrundi         Preparation of mana-    Completed Establishment of management
gement contraet                   performance contract
3    Study for restructuring of Onapha           Rehabilitation study    Completed Scheduled for privatization
4    Study for restructuring of SOSLTMO          Preparation of mana-    Completed Establ. of management
gement contract        _          performance contract
5    Study for restructuring of REGIDESO         Preparation of mana-    Completed Establishment of management
Rement contract                   performance contract
6    Sector study on PE privatization            Preparation of priviti-  Completed Privatization program 1992
sation program
7    Accounting framework for Verrundi           Strengthening of        Completed Improved Accounting
I__________________________________management                                I system
8    Study for restructuring ONATEL              Rehabilitation study    Completed Scheduled for Pfivatization
9    Updating of accounting framework of Sosumo  Preparation of mana-    Completed Improved Accounting
Rement contract                   system
10   Study for restructuring COTEBU              Preparation of mana-    Completed Management performance
gement contract                   contract
1_   Technical Assisitance to OTRACO             Rehabilitabion study    Completed Scheduled for pfivatization
12   Study for restructufing of L.C.B.           Rehabilitation study    Completed privatized
13   Study for restructuring of INABU            Rehabilitation study    Completed Scheduled for privatization
14   Sector study on public/PE relations         Analysis of flow of     Completed Reduction of direct
local PE budget                   subsidies
15   Study of the restructuring of S.T.B.        Study for restructuring  Completed N.A.
16   Study for the preparation of issuance of    Preparation of mana-    Completed Management contract
bids and management contract for some       gement contract                   1993-1995
functions of COTEBU                                                          I
17   Diagnostic and viability study of SIP       Viability study         Completed Scheduled for privatization
18   Cogestion COTEBU                            Improved management    Completed Managt. contract 1993-1995
19   Financial and organisational audit of CADEBU  Viability study       Completed Liquidation
20   Accounting and financial audit of Verrundi  Audit                   Completed Improved management of
(86-88)                                                                      database
21   Financial audit and assessment of hotels    Audit                   Completed Improved management of
_database
22   Accounting and financing management audit   Audit                   Completed Improved management of
(1986-1988) of SIP                                                            database
23   Accounting audit of CADEBU                  Audit                   Completed Improved management of
database
24   Accounting audit of ONATEL (88-89) +        Audit                   Completed Improved management of
Assessment of fixed assets                                                    database
25   Audit OTRABU-OTRACO                         Viability study         Completed OTRABU Liquidated
26   Accounting and financing audit of INABU-ONAMA
Viability study        Completed Liquidation underway
27   Study on the reinforcement of planning      Strengthening of Plan-    Completed Pilot Public expenditure
_   system in Burundi                            ning Ministry          ___ programs.



Table 7:
Studies Included in the Proiect
Study                              Purpose *          Status             Impact of
Study
B.  Expenditure Programming Reform
28   Study of PIP/PDP (I st phase)                Preparabon of public    Completed Pilot expenditure program
_ ____________________________________________ expenditure program             for seven ministries
29   Covenant No. I Finalization of PIP 1991-1993  Preparation of public  Completed Budget preparation
and presentation of the 1991 budget as a     expenditure program
program.
30   Technical Assistance to the govemment to     Preparation of public   Completed Pilot expenditure
master the consolidated public IEB for 1993;  expenditure program              programs
consistency among the unified general budget,
PIP and PEP; revision of the accounting
system; design and implementation of
accounting plan for the state.
31   Preparation of the PEP of the Ministries of  Preparation of public   Completed Pilot expenditure
Transport and Telecommunications             expenditure program               programs
32   Technical Assistance to the Ministry of      Preparation of public   Completed Pilot expenditure
Planning for the implementation of PEP       expenditure program               programs
in the health, education, transport, roads,
energy and mines, and rural development
sectors.
33   Sector study for sugar at MOSO               Marketing study         Completed Restructuring of SOSUMO
34   Regional comparative advantage study         Economic study          Completed Restructuring of SOSUMO
at MOSO and BUYENZI
35   Sector study on fertilizers from the MATONGO  Feasibility study      Completed Improved management
minerals in the KAYANZA province                                               of agro-industries.
C.   SAC III Preparation & Implementation
36   Private Sector development project           Sectoral study          Completed Preparation of SAC Im
37   Technical Assistance to the Executive secreta-  Implementation of    Completed Training
riat of the program for professional reconver-  reconversion program
sion in the pursue of the Burundian program
and transfer of technical knowledge of the
reconversion phase.
38   Organisation of a seminar on the analysis    Strengthening of        Completed Improved statistical
of statistical data.                        Ministry of Labor                  database
39   Exploration and analysis of surveys on       Household surveys       Completed Poverty assessment
consumption budget and lifestyle of rural
households realized in Burundi from 1986
to 1990.
D.  Recovery Program
40   Organisation of a seminar and technical      Preparation of Emer-    Completed Emergency Program
assistance for the preparation of a plan of  gency reconversion                1994
action for reconstruction                   program
41   Follow up of reconstruction plans for        Preparation of Emer-    Completed Emergency Program
provinces                                   gency progoram          Completed 1994
* The purpose of studies was defined throughout the project and is only implicitly defined in the appraisal report.
34 studies - 7 enterprise audits - 5 project and sector audits.



Table 8a:
Proiect Costs
Appraisal estimate                               Actual (or latest estimate)
(USS mil)                                           (USS mil)
Local           Foreign            Total            Local            Foreign            Total
costs            costs                              costs             costs
Item             i       _v____
1. SCEP component                         1.30             3.10              4.40             2.71              4.721             7.431
2. Planning component                     0.70             2.70              3.40               0.7              1.09             1.79]
3. Finance component                      0.05             0.10              0.15              0.05             0.27              0.32
Total Base Cost                2.051             5.901            7.951             3.461             6.08             9.54|
14. Contingencies                         0.10             0.20             0.30                                                 0.001
Total Project Cost                2.15             6.10|             8.251            3.461             6.08|             9.54
%of total              26.1%             73.9%           100.0%
Table 8b:
Proiect Financin2
Appraisal estimate                               Actual (or latest estimate)
(USS mil)                                           (USS mil)
Local           Foreign            Total            Local            Foreign            Total
costs            costs   _                          costs             costs
Item
1. IDA                       _            1.40             6.10              7.50              1.68             6.08              7.76
2. Government contribution                0.80                               0.80              1.77                0              1.77
3. Other                                                                     0.00                                                 0.00
TOTAL                   2.201            6 1O             8.301             3.451            6.08|             953]



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Covenant          Present   Original       Revised     Description of covenants   Comments
section     type              status    fulfillment   fulfillment
date           date
2.02 (b)     Financial        c                                    Opening and use of        Fulfilled
special
I____ ____ _____   ___ ____   account
2.03         Managerial       cd        12/31/92      06/30/95     Loan closing date         Fulfilled
3.02         Procurement      c                                    Respect of procurement    Fulfilled
directives
3.03         Monitoring       cd        Dec. 15 of                 Annual review of SCEP    Fulfilled
review                    each year                   proposed program and
I                    ~~~~~~budget
3.04         Monitoring       cd       March 31 of                 Annual review of          Fulfilled
review                    each year                   progress achieved by
SCEP the previous year
3.05         Project          c        Before March                Creation of an            Fulfilled
implementation            9, 1998                     intervention
arrangements              (effectiveness              fund for financing PE
condition)                 rehabilitation plan
3.06         Project          c                                    No funds are released     Fulfilled until the
implementation                                        from the Intervention     fund was liquidated
arrangements                                          Fund unless SCEP prior    for redundancy with
review of the            local bank system
rehabilitation plan and
approval of the plan by
the managerial committee
of the Intervention Fund
3.07         Monitoring/      cd       06/30/88                    Furnish to IDA SCEP       Fulfilled
review                                                training program  for
1988, 1989 and 1990
3.08         Monitoring /     nc       July 31                     Furnish to IDA MOP and   Not fulfilled except
review                    of each                     MOF training program for  for 1989 and 1993
__ year                      review                    and after delays
3.09 (a)     Sector policy    cd       February 1,                 Carry out a review of     Fulfilled
conditionality:            1988.                      PEP system and
budgetary                                             preparation of action plan
to improve the
coordination of the
ministries involved in this
activity
3.09 (b)     Sector policy    cp                                   Implementation of the     Due to lack of
conditionality:                                       action plan concerning the  training and staff
budgetary                                             PEP system                mobility, the PEP
system is not yet
effectively applied by
the administration
3. 10 (a)    Studies         nc        October 31                  Furnish to IDA the        Not fulfilled except
and (b)                                of each year                annual program of         for 1989, 1990 and
sectoral, sub-sectoral,  1993 and delays
prefeasibility, feasibility
studies for its approval



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ( cont'd)
Agreement   Covenant          Present   Original     Revised     Description of covenants   Comments
section     type              status    fulfillrment   fulfillment
date         date
4.01(a) (b)   Accounts/audits  cd       June 30 of               Borrowers to have records,  From 1988 to 1991 the
(c)                                    each year                 account and financial      accounts were not
statements related to     properly established
project audited by        Since 1992 annual audit
independent auditors      reports are unqualified
4.02 (a) (b)  Accounts/audits  cd      June 30 of                Borrowers to have records,   Fulfilled with delays
(c) (d)                                each year                 account and financial      due to the auditor
statements related to The    recruitment process.
Intervention Fund and
SCEP audited by
independent auditors
c - completed
cd - completed with delay
cp - partially completed
nc - not completed
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number  and Title Manual sa teme
|compliance
Complied with Operational Manual statements



Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inguts
Stage of                     Planned                      Revised                       Actual
Project Cycle             Weeks          USS         Weeks            US$          Weeks           US$
Through appraisal               20          39006         17.2            33545         17.2          33545
Appraisal-Board                  15         26680        13.19            23461        13.19          23461
Board-Effectiveness             15          34662        11.87            27429        11.87          27429
Supervision                     70        123461         65.25          115083         65.25         115083
Completion                        9         26700           10            29667           10          29667
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total                          129       250,509       117.51          229,185       117.51        229,185
Table 12: Bank Resources - Missions
Number                     Specialized    Implemen-
Stage of           Month/          Of         Days in       staff skilis    tation      Development     Types of
project cycle        Year         Persons        field       Represented      Status       Problems       Problems
Through appraisal            May486        3            45        Country Officer
Economist
Economist
Appraisal-Board              Nov-86        3            45        Country Officer
Economist
Jan-87       3            45          Economist
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                  Oct48         3            21        Country Officer
Apr-89       2            18          TA Officer                                Weak Mana-
Nov-90       4            30         PE specialist                              gement Unit
Sr. Operations Of.
Jul-92      3             35       Operations Off.
Operations Asst.
Completion                 11/95           1            15          Economist



APPENDIX A: AIDE-MEMOIRE
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D'APPUI A LA
GESTION DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES
(AT IV, CR.1795-BUI)
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, composee de Madame Vera Wilhelm,
6conomiste, et assistee par Monsieur Prosper Nindorera , charge des operations a la
Mission Residente a sejourn6 au Burundi du 6 au 14 novembre 1995. Cette mission avait
les objectifs suivants: (i) Presenter le projet de rapport d'achevement aux autorites pour
commentaires; (ii) Completer et finaliser le rapport d'achevement sur base des elements
recueillis aupres des services impliques dans 1'execution du projet. La mission a eu des
entretiens avec Monsieur le Ministre de la Planification du D1eveloppement et de la
Reconstruction, Monsieur le Commissaire General du SCEP, Monsieur le Directeur
General de la Planification et Monsieur le Directeur Gen6ral des Depenses. La mission a
tenu des reunions de travail avec les cadres de leurs services ayant ete les plus activement
engages dans la gestion du projet. La mission tient a remercier tous ses interlocuteurs
pour leur accueil chaleureux et leur disponibilite, ainsi que pour leurs commentaires et
contributions au rapport d'achevement. Le rapport du Gouvernement sur l'execution du
projet a ete re,u au cours de la mission.
2.    Le contenu du projet de rapport rencontre le point de vue du Gouvernement. Le
rapport rend bien compte de la vie du projet. Les entretiens et reunions ont permis de
corriger quelques erreurs de forme, inexactitudes ou oublis mineurs contenus dans le
rapport. L'appreciation portee par la Banque sur les resultats du projet a cependant et
jugee severe. Le Gouvernement a tenu a signaler le r6le de certains facteurs dans les
resultats peu satisfaisants qui, bien que parfois indiques dans le rapport, ne sont sans doute
pas appr6cies dans leur juste dimension ou des sujets de satisfaction pas assez soulignes ou
ignores. Pour l'essentiel les points de vue exprimes par le Gouvernement concordent avec
ceux de la mission. Quelques modifications seront donc apportes au rapport dans sa
version finale. Cependant ces modifications ne devraient pas changer de maniere notable
l'appreciation globale de la Banque sur les resultats du projet. Ces commentaires sont
repris ci-apres en suivant les rubriques du rapport.
3.    Objectif et Conception du projet. Le lien trop etroit entre le CAS et le projet
d'Appui a la Gestion de l'Economie et des Entreprises Publiques (AT IV) a porte
gravement prejudice au projet. La Banque comme le Gouvernement ont employe le projet
comme un moyen pour remplir plus rapidement les conditionnalites du CAS. Cela n'etait
pas compatible avec l'objectif primordiale de renforcement des capacites
4.    Les activites du projet et ses resultats. Le CAS I et dans une moindre mesure le
CAS II mettaient l'accent sur le redressement des EP - d'oii notamment la creation d'un



2
fonds d'intervention pour le financement des activites de redressement - la liquidation des
EP non viables et une diminution du poids des EP sur les finances publiques. Le projet
d'assistance technique a permis d'atteindre des r6sultats estimables comme la reduction
des subventions directes aux entreprises publiques qui a ete consequente entre 1988 et
1993 ou encore la meilleure connaissance des EP grace notamment a une bonne macitrise
du systeme d'information de gestion. Si en matiere de gestion les resultats sont peu
satisfaisants, il a surtout manque la volonte politique de prendre en temps opportuns
certaines mesures (augmentation des tarifs, e1imination de l'ingerence de l'6tat dans la
gestion des EP, reduction des effectifs) plus que la capacite technique.
5.    Le desengagement de I'Etat du secteur productif etait un objectif du CAS III et
non du projet AT IV. L'echec du desengagement doit etre apprecie au titre du projet y
relatif. Le Gouvernement a neanmoins precise que bien que le CAS III ait ete prepare
conjointement par la Banque et le Gouvernement, les conditions de deblocage de la
seconde tranche relatives aux EP etaient un des rares points de divergence. Suivant
l'opinion du Gouvemement ces conditions etaient trop ambitieuses compte tenu du
contexte propre au Burundi. L'environnement est, de surcroait, devenu bien plus difficile
avec la periode electorale et ensuite la crise d'octobre 1993.
6.    La resistance aux reformes a sans nul doute ete importante.  Le poids des
resistances et inerties ont ete tout autant le fait des divisions de toutes formes de la societe
burundaise - les divisions se retrouvent sous differentes formes dans toute societe - que la
consequence d'une absence de strategie adequate d'internalisation des reformes et plus
singulierement de celles portant sur les entreprise publiques.  L'internalisation des
reformes n'a retenu serieusement l'attention des autorites gouvernementales que depuis
moins d'un an.
7.    Analyse des facteurs ayant influence 1'execution du projet.  A l'instar du
Gouvernement, la grande rotation des responsables du projet au sein de la Banque a porte
prejudice au suivi de l'execution du projet comme a ses resultats. Au cours des quatre
premieres annees, quatre responsables de projet se sont succedes. En outre le fait que ce
projet ait ete place sous la direction du responsable du projet d'ajustement structurel a ete
bien plus un inconvenient qu'un avantage.  De maniere generale, au cours de la
supervision de ce projet par la Banque, peu d'attention a et6 accordee a ses problemes
specifiques, celle-ci etant plus portee aux activites en rapport direct avec le CAS. La
qualite de l'assistance technique au SCEP laissait a desirer durant les premieres annees du
projet, cela a egalement nui aux chances du succes du projet
8.    Le manque de coordination entre d'une part les divisions sectorielles de la Banque
et les Ministeres d'equipement (Transport, Energie, Telecommunications etc..) et d'autre
part les macro-economistes de la Banque et du Gouvernement (Finances, Plan) ont
souvent conduit a des contradictions; ainsi d'un c6te on demandait plus de fonds de



3
contrepartie a l'Etat et de 1'autre la reduction de certains investissements et 'elimination
des subventions.   Les liens intersectorielles n'ont pas ete suffisamment pris en
consideration dans la definition et conduite des reformes des EP en ce qui concerne le
secteur agricole, plus particulierement en ce qui concerne le cafe.
9.    Le rapport ne faisait pas cas des actions de formation menees par le SCEP en
faveur des EP sur site comme dans le cadre des seminaires. Celles-ci ont ete menees a
partir de 1993 et sont un succes. Les EP sont de plus en plus demanderesses de conseils
et de formation du SCEP.
10.   L'absence de revue a mi-parcours du projet a et egalement prejudiciable au
projet. En effet, il ne faut pas attendre la fin du projet pour tirer des le,ons et apporter des
changements. Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement s'est interroge sur le bien fonde de l'apport
de structures nouvelles - la cellule d'Etudes et d'Administration des Projets, la cellule du
Programme Reconversion Professionnel et la cellule d'appui a l'Inspection General des
Finances - apposees a 1' administration, au regard de leurs resultats.   Suivant le
Gouvernement, il serait plus indique a I'avenir de recourir a des missions ponctuelles de
consultants en appui aux services de l'administration .
11.   Opierationsfutures. Les autorites ont fait part de leur souhait de voir un nouveau
projet d'assistance technique demarrer dans un proche avenir. De l'avis des autorit6s, les
besoins en la matiere sont importants d'autant plus que la crise que traverse le pays a eu
des effets negatifs sur les capacites nationales en matiere de gestion de l'economie. Afin
de preserver les acquis, s'atteler a corriger les lacunes ayant trait a la faiblesse de la
maitrise des instruments de gestions de l'economie et ameliorer la capacite tant des cadres
et agent de l'administration que du secteur prive, le Gouvernement souhaiterait qu'on
envisage la conception d'une nouvelle operation d'assistance technique.
12.   Concernant ce dernier point, la mission a rappele les conclusions de la strategie-
pays de la Banque au Burundi laquelle date de mai 1995 et reprise dans le rapport
d'achevement du projet. II n'est pas envisage a court terme de nouvelles operations dans
le secteur a moins que le Gouvernement manifeste par des actes concrets sa volonte de
reprendre et accelerer le processus des reformes economiques. La Banque pourrait
soutenir des actions d'intemalisation des reformes et de renforcement de la maitrise des
instruments de gestion des ressources publiques grace a des ressources du Fonds de
Developpement Institutionnel ("IDF" sigle en anglais). Le Gouvemement a manifeste un
interet particulier pour les actions touchant les domaines suivants: (i) Renforcement de la
maitrise des PIP/PDP; (ii) Internalisation de la reforme des EP. II importe pour cela que le
premier don soit cl6ture et qu'une demande en bonne et due forme soit presentee par le
Gouvernement.



APPENDIX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
RAPPORT D'ACHfEVEMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
Cadre General
1. Le projet d'appui a la gestion des entreprises publiques et a l'Economie communement dit Projet
d'Assistance Technique IV faisait suite a trois autres projets (AT I, AT II et AT III) qui ont ete negocies et
ex6cutes entre 1976 et 1987. Pendant cette periode, il y a eu creation de beaucoup d'entreprises publiques.
Les cours eleves du cafe ont pousse le Gouvernement A adopter une politique expansionniste. Mais vers les
annees 80, ces entreprises ont commence a ne pas etre rentables en meme temps que les cours du cafe
chutaient. C'est ainsi que l'AT IV fut negocie dans une periode ou les entreprises publiques causaient un
prejudice au developpement economique du Burundi. En effet, par le truchement des subventions ou de
subsides, les entreprises publiques exercaient un poids enorme dans les finances publiques. En 1986, il fut
cree le Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques ( SCEP ). Ce service s'occupera specialement de l'analyse
strategique du secteur para-public, de l'elaboration et de l'application d'une politique d'ensemble du secteur,
du suivi et de l'assistance a la gestion des entreprises publiques. L'un des objectifs du projet fut alors
d'appuyer le secteur public par des actions d'Assistance Technique, etudes de diagnostic, de restructuration .
2. Aussi, le projet a ete negocie au cours d'une periode ou le courant de l'Ajustement Structurel etait A la
une. La rationalisation des depenses publiques etait consideree comme l'un des piliers du D6veloppement
economique du pays. Dans ce cadre, des actions furent entreprises grace au projet. Le projet avait deux
volets: le SCEP d'une part, le volet constitue par le Ministere de la Planification du Developpement et de la
Reconstruction (MPDR), celui des Finances et celui ayant le Travail dans ses attributions d'autre part. Ce
dernier est couvert par le projet des Juillet 1992.
3. Le present rapport s'articule sur la conception du projet, les objectifs du projet et leur realisation, les
prestations du Gouvemement et celles de la Banque Mondiale. Nous concluons le rapport en tirant les
lecons qui se degagent ainsi que les perspectives d'avenir.
H. DE LA CONCEPTION DU PROJET
4. Le projet d'appui A la gestion des entreprises publiques et a 1'economie faisait suite au troisieme Projet
d'Assistance Technique. Celui-ci a ete cl6ture au 31 Decembre 1990, deux ans et neuf mois plus tard que
prevu. Le projet AT IV a ete signe en date du 9 Octobre 1987. Les premiers deboursements sont intervenus
en 1987 pour le SCEP et en 1989 pour le volet B, C et D, (Planification, Budget, Statistiques) soit deux ans
apres sa signature. Le Service Charge des Entreprise Publiques ( le SCEP ) avait ete cree dans le cadre du
projet et avait pour mission d'assainir le secteur des entreprises publiques et para- publiques. Le projet avait
ete concu pour repondre aux exigences du moment A savoir la planification realiste et sure et la
rationalisation des Depenses Publiques pr6n6e par le Programme d'Ajustement Structurel.



2
]JI. DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
5. Selon l'accord de pret, les objectifs du projet consistent a aider le Burundi a:
- ameliorer la gestion du secteur des entreprises publiques;
- renforcer les fonctions de rationalisation des choix budgetaires;
- renforcer le processus de preparation du Programme de Depenses Publiques.
En vue d'atteindre ces objectifs, les actions suivantes ont ete programmees des la conception du projet.
Partie A: Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques
6. Le projet devrait appuyer le SCEP par la realisation des actions suivantes:
- des etudes concernant les politiques du Gouvernement vis-a-vis des entreprises et definitions des criteres
d'intervention du Gouvernement dans le secteur des Entreprises Publiques;
- le renforcement du cadre institutionnel des entreprises publiques;
- la mise en place d'un systeme pour evaluer et suivre les resultats du secteur des Entreprises Publiques;
- la r6alisation d'evaluations economiques des plans de redressement pour les entreprises publiques;
- 1'elaboration d'un programme de formation destine au personnel du SCEP et des Entreprises Publiques
- la formation du personnel et des dirigeants du SCEP et des EP en matiere de comptabilite, financement,
gestion et planification strategique;
- la fourniture du materiel de bureau et de quatre vehicules au SCEP
Partie B: Volet B,C,D
7. Ce volet consiste a realiser les actions suivantes:
- Renforcement des activites d'evaluation des projets a la Direction
de la Planification;
- Renforcement du processus de preparation du PIP;
- Renforcement des moyens de Planification Sectorielle de
divers Ministeres;
- Pr6paration, Selection et execution d'etudes Sectorielles;
sous-sectorielles, de prefaisabilite, de faisabilite et
d'ingenieurs;
- Formation du Personnel du MPDR aux methodes d'evaluation economique
et financiere des projets;
- Renforcement de l'ISTEEBU;
- Elaboration et mise en oeuvre d'un programme unifie de
depenses publiques;
- Formation du personnel des secteurs appuyes par le Projet.
IV. NIVEAU DE REALISATION DU PROJET
8. D'une fa,on generale, on peut souligner que le projet a atteint ses objectifs. Mais la crise a fait que
certains acquis se volatilisent en raison de la demobilisation de l'administration, la rotation et mobilite de ses



3
cadres et agents, la rationalisation des Depenses Publiques qui n'est plus de rigueur, etc... A part cela, on
peut dire que la contribution du projet a e  positive. Ci apres les resultats atteints volet par volet.
Resultats atteints au niveau du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques
9.  Au cours de la periode 1987-1990, le SCEP etait pratiquement dans sa phase de d6marrage.
D'importants travaux visant a connaitre le secteur des EP ont ete realises. Il s'agissait notamment de:
-l'inventaire de tout le portefeuille de l'Etat dans les entreprises publiques ( environ 80);
- la classification des EP par categories juridiques et par secteur d'activite;
- la revision du cadre organique des EP avec pour objectif de renforcer leur autonomie de gestion et de
clarifier leurs relations institutionnelles avec l'Etat;
- la mise en place d'une base de donnees sur le secteur des EP;
- la conduite d'etudes diagnostiques suivies de plans de redressement pour certaines entreprises;
- la liquidation des EP non viables et la generalisation de I'audit externe des etats financiers des EP.;
10.  Dans la suite et grace A une meilleure connaissance du secteur des entreprises publiques, le
Gouvernement a decide de renoncer A I'approche au cas par cas pour envisager des reformes profondes et
globales du secteur. C'est ainsi qu'au debut de l'annee 1991, le Gouvemement a adopt6, sur proposition du
SCEP, la politique sectorielle de reforme des EP. Cette derniere s'articule autour de trois axes:
- le redressement des entreprises jugees strategiques;
- la privatisation des EP qui sont retables ou potentiellement rentables et qui ne revetent pas de caractere
strategique;
- Ia liquidation de celles qui ne sont ni strategiques ni rentables
Du redressement des EP
11. Plusieurs EP ont fait l'objet d'6tudes diagnostiques pour mieux orienter les plans de redressement. Cinq
entreprises ont 6te soumises A des contrats de performance. Il s'agit de l'OTRACO, la REGIDESO, la
SOSUMO, la VERRUNDI et l'OTB. Les contrats de la VERRUNDI et de la SOSUMO ont expire tandis
que ceux des trois autres entreprises sont en cours. Le projet de contrat de performance entre l'Etat du
Burundi et le COTEBU est disponible; il sera signe tres prochainement. Le SCEP continue a suivre et
evaluer l'execution de tous les contrats de performance en vigueur.
De la privatisation
12. La promulgation de la loi sur la privatisation et les operations de privatisation ont 6te lanc6es en 1991
apres l'adoption de la politique sectorielle de reformes des EP. Des lors, l'Etat s'est desengage de huit
entreprises: quatre etablissements publics ( Laiterie Centrale de Bujumbura, CNI, CPI et ECODI ) et quatre
societes d'economie mixte ( SICOPP, SIRUCO, ARNOLAC et AMSAR ). En general, ce sont des
entreprises de taille modeste et leur cession se situe entre le milieu de 1992 et le premier semestre 1993. Les
appels d'offres de privatisation du capital de certaines entreprises comme COTEBU, ONAPHA, FADI,
Alcovit, OPHAVET ont 6te lances au debut de l'annee 1993, mais la cession de ces entreprises n'a pas pu se
concretiser pour diverses raisons.
13. Pour d'autres entreprises, les commissions techniques d'evaluation destinees A conduire la privatisation
du capital ou de la gestion ont et6 nommees par decrets. Les entreprises concernees sont les suivantes:



4
* BCB, BRARIDI-BRAGITA, EPB, HPB, INABU, FERME DE RANDA, SIP, SOCABU, UCAR,
VERRUNDI pour la privatisation du capital.
** Cogerco, Onatel, Regideso, Sobugea, Sosumo pour la privatisation de la gestion.
Pour l'Inabu, le HPB, la SIP, la RUZIZI, I'OPHAVET, les rapports sont au Comite Interministeriel de
Privatisation ( CIP ) pour analyse et decision. Pour le reste, les commissions sont a pied d'oeuvre et l'etude
de ces dossiers se poursuivra au cours de l'exercice 1996.
De la liquidation
14. Afin d'arr8ter l'hemorragie financiere que certaines entreprises publiques causaient au Tresor Public par
des subventions de toutes natures, le SCEP a propose leur dissolution. Cette mesure a frappe les entreprises
suivantes: AGRIBAL, EPIMABU, ONIMAC, Fonds de l'Habitat Rural, Minoterie de Muramvya,
SOGESA, ONL, OTRABU, HALB, Ferme de Karuzi, Ferme de Kiryama , Hotel Club des Vacances,
ONAMA et la CADEBU. Pour la plupart de ces entreprises, le processus de liquidation est cl6ture, il reste
a finaliser pour les cinq derni&res.
15. En resum6, d'enormes efforts ont ete deployes et continuent de 1'8tre pour redynamiser le secteur des
EP. Grace a l'assistance et aux conseils du SCEP, les resultats suivants ont pu 8tre enregistres:
10 Les subventions directes et indirectes consenties aux EP ont considerablement baisse. Seules deux
entreprises recoivent des subventions directes, il s'agit de l'OTRACO et la REGIDESO;
20 Les entreprises publiques non strategiques ont e  soumises au meme regime fiscal que les entreprises
privees. Actuellement les EP paient, bien plus regulierement que par le passe, leurs imp6ts et taxes;
30 Les services de comptabilite et d'informatisation ont et redynamises;
40 La rationalisation de la gestion des ressources humaines produit progressivement des effets positifs;
50 la programmation des investissements a moyen terme devient de plus en plus systbmatique de meme que
les previsions de tresorerie.
Donc la contribution du projet a ete positive et pour ne pas perdre les acquis, il s'avere indispensable de
negocier un autre projet.
Resultats atteints au niveau de la partie B, C, D du projet
16. Le premier deboursement est intervenu pour cette partie deux ans apres sa signature. Mais cela n'a pas
cause beaucoup d'entorses au bon fonctionnement du projet. Le projet a permis aux Ministeres concernes
de disposer des moyens materiels necessaires a l'accomplissement de leurs missions. La realisation des
objectif est developpee dans les lignes qui suivent. II convient de souligner que cette evaluation est un peu
difficile a cause du manque d'indicateurs de performance.
17. L'objectif de Renforcement des activites d'Wvaluation des projets a la Direction de la Planification a ete
atteint. En effet en 1989, une btude sur le renforcement du systeme de Planification a et realisee. Des
s6minaires sur la Planification Regionale ont btb organises. Des formations tant a l'btranger qu'a l'intbrieur
du pays ont ete organisees pour les cadres du Ministere de la Planification du Dbveloppement et de la
Reconstruction. Des outils de planification ont btb mis en place. Bref, l'on remarque aisement que cet
objectif a ete suffisamment realis&
18. L'objectif de renforcement du processus de preparation du programme d'investissement public a ete
realise. En effet une etude sur les PIP/PDP/PCT a ete rbalisbe et a permis aux cadres des Ministeres



5
concernes par le projet de maitriser le processus de leur preparation. Des cellules PIP/PDP/PCT dans les
Ministeres concemrs ont &e  mises en place. II reste a generaliser cette action dans tous les Ministeres.
19. Malgre des bourses accordees dans le cadre du projet, on peut dire que l'objectif de formation du
personnel du MPDR n'a ete que partiellement atteint du fait que pendant la periode du projet (1987-1995),
il y a eu beaucoup de rotation de personnel faisant que les besoins se font sentir m8me aujourd'hui. Bien
plus l'absence d'un programme de formation n'a pas favorise la realisation de cet objectif a un taux eleve.
20.  L'objectif de Renforcement des moyens de Planification Sectorielle de divers Ministeres de
l'Emprunteur a ete atteint par le fait que les Ministeres concernes a savoir ceux de l'agriculture, de
l'education, de la Sante, ont leurs outils de programmation a savoir le PIP et le PDP. Des cadres de ces
Ministeres ont ete formes au cours d'un seminaire qu'a organise le Ministere de la Planification du
Developpement et de la Reconstruction avec le financement du Projet.
Preparation, selection et execution d'etudes sectorielles, sous-sectorielles de prefaisabifite, de
faisabifite et d'engineering
21. Cette action a souffert d'un manque d'organe charge des etudes. En effet, au d6part le volet 6tudes
totalisait un montant de 1.585.000 DTS, soit 26,42% de l'ensemble du credit. Mais peu d'etudes ont ete
financees par le projet faute d'organes initiateurs et en raison de la disponibilite de ressources des bailleurs
bilateraux ou sous formes de fonds de contrepartie generes par le credit d'ajustement structurel. La creation
de la Cellule chargee des Etudes de Projet en 1991 au sein du Ministere de la Planification du
D1veloppement et de la Reconstruction (MPDR) a comble le vide et a mis en place des cellules
correspondantes dans tous les Ministeres concernes par le projet. La reallocation du credit intervenue en
mars 1993 en faveur du SCEP, ce volet n'a pas fonctionne faute de budget. Le montant non transfere servait
A payer les etudes deja faites mais non encore payees jusqu'en Juillet 1992.
22. L'objectif de renforcement de l'ISTEEBU a ete atteint , le projet a finance une assistance technique
pour l'exploitation et l'analyse de l'enqu8te budget-consommation et des conditions de vie des Menages
Ruraux au Burundi. Le service a aussi beneficie d'un appui logistique grAce au projet.
23. L'objectif de " Renforcement du Ministere des Finances "a ete partiellement atteint avec un taux
satisfaisant au niveau de la reforme budgetaire et comptable. En effet, au niveau de ce volet on peut noter
les resultats positifs suivants:
- la reforme de la nomenclature des recettes , dons , des financements et de participations a ete
operee et appliquee depuis Janvier 1990;
- la nomenclature des depenses de fonctionnement, des services de la dette publique et la
centralisation des depenses financees par le budget de fonctionnement ont ete operees depuis janvier 1991;
- des 1991, un budget test consolide est lis en place et en 1993 le premier budget unifie et consolide
est vote.
24 A c6t6 des ces resultats satisfaisants, on peut citer les insuffisances suivantes:
- I'assainissement des finances publiques n'est pas realisee et doit se poursuivre;
- I'unicite du budget et de la tresorerie n'a pas ete atteint a 100%;
- la programmation financiere n'a pas encore demarre;
25. Dans le cadre du Ministere ayant le travail dans ses attributions, le projet a recrute pour le compte de ce
Ministere une assistance technique dans le cadre du Programme de la Reconversion. Les cadres ont



6
beneficie d'une formation en matiere de reconversion professionnelle. Un seminaire sur l'analyse des donnees
statistiques a et organise. Le Ministere a aussi beneficie d'un appui logistique de la part du projet.
V. PRESTATION DU GOUVERNEMENT: ORGANISATION ET GESTION DU PROJET
26. L'organisation du projet etait sous la responsabilite du Ministre ayant le Plan dans ses attributions. Mais
le projet a ete subdivise en deux grandes parties avec deux centres de responsabilite a savoir le Service des
Entreprises Publiques ( SCEP ) et la partie B, C, D du Projet constituee par le Ministere ayant le Plan dans
ses attributions, le Ministere des Finances et le Ministere ayant le travail dans ses attributions. Cette partie a
comme centre de responsabilite le Ministere de la PDR appuye par le Ministere des Finances. En fait, ces
deux ministeres cogeraient la partie BCD.
27. La partie A du projet qui est le SCEP a bien marche. Cela est dfu a l'existence d'un programme
d'activites et budget annuel, I'utilisation des fonds etait programmee. A ce niveau, il y a lieu de signaler que
tout a bien marche. Le SCEP a aussi beneficie d'un appui tant politico - administratif que financier de la part
du Gouvernement.et de la Banque Mondiale lors des differentes mission de supervision.
28. La gestion du volet B,C,D souffrait du manque de programmation des activites et des previsions
budgetaires. En effet, a la fin de chaque annee, il aurait fallu faire une programmation de l'utilisation des
fonds en conformite avec les objectifs du credit et les regles d'emploi des ressources de l'IDA. Cela ne
s'est pas fait. Par ailleurs bon nombre des activites du projet ont ete financees sur les fonds de contrepartie
g6ner6s par le credit d'ajustement structurel, les ressources du projet devant servir a financer les depenses
en devises, d'ou la faiblesse des deboursements jusqu'a la fin de 1992. A partir de mi-1993, les fonds de
contrepartie se sont rarefies alors que les ressources du credit avaient e  reallouees pour financer
l'assistance technique au SCEP et au COTEBU ( conditions de mise en vigueur du CAS III), si bien que le
financement des etudes s'est trouve sans ressource au moment oil le service cree pour suivre ce volet
proposait une serie d'etudes a realiser.
29. Il semble donc que l'utilisation de ce credit n'ait pas ete bien programmee, en temoignent les faits
suivants:
- elargissement des volets du projet aux Ministeres initialement non concernes par le projet;
- financement des actions initialement non prevues;.
- reaffectation des lignes non debours6es au profit des actions pas necessairement profitables, mais
consommatrices des fonds.
Tout cela montre que le projet a ete execute d'une facon non planifiee et les actions ci-dessus avaient
principalement pour objectif l'utilisation rapide des fonds devenu quasi impossible avec la premiere
allocation.
VI. LES PRESTATIONS DE LA BANOUE MONDIALE
30. Le projet a souffert du manque de" task manager" bien connu et stable. Ceci est demontr6 par les
differentes correspondances adressees soit au chef de Division des Pays des Grands Lacs, soit au chef de
Deboursement, soit encore au responsable du Burundi, bref on avait l'impression que le projet est place au
deuxieme rang par rapport aux autres projets tel le CAS, le projet de developpement du secteur prive. Donc
l'encadrement des gestionnaires de la partie B,C,D n'a pas ete optimal dans les premibres annees, les



7
problemes auraient pu trouver des solutions avant que le projet soit classe parmi les projets a problemes. II
faut egalement noter que parmi les problemes du projet le faible niveau de deboursement a souvent ete mis
en avant par la Banque, alors qu'il fallait mettre en exergue la disponibilite des ressources du Gouvernement
qui lui permettait de ne pas recourir au cr6dit pour certaines activites.
31. La situation s'est amelioree avec les faits suivants:
- le Representant Resident est devenu le "task Manager" du Projet;
- la mise en place de la Cellule des etudes au sein du Ministere de la Planification du Developpement
et de la Reconstruction comme organe charge de la gestion du projet et interlocuteur direct des services
techniques de la Banque.
VII. LECONS ET PERSPECTIVES D'AVENIR
32. A cause d'un manque d'organe competent charge de la gestion du projet, celui -ci n'a pas marche et a
ete classe parmi les projets A problemes. En effet, le projet n'etait pas utilise et aucun deboursement n'a ete
enregistre durant plusieurs mois et ceci est valable pour la partie B, C et D du projet.
33. Une autre source de probleme fut le manque de programmation de l'utilisation des fonds du projet.
Meme les actions qui ont ete financee l'ont souvent ete par les fonds de contrepartie lesquels fonds
n'apparaissent nulle part dans le dossier de convention de credit.
34. Les points suivants devraient etre tenus en consideration dans l'avenir:
- II faut des relations de travail etroites et regulieres entre le gestionnaire des projets et le task
manager comme cela s'est fait les deux dernieres annees du projet.
- II faut s'attacher A respecter les dispositions relatives a l'etablissement des programmes et budgets
annuels d'activites;
- 11 faut un task manager du projet fixe ou limiter sa rotation, et celui-ci doit etre l'intermediaire
entre les gestionnaires du projet ou l'administration et les differents departements de la Banque mondiale;
cela eviterait de confondre les correspondants.
- A la signature des projets, il faut que les parties etablissent ensemble des criteres de performance.
Ceci permettrait a la Banque et au Gouvernement d'evaluer les performances du projet A tout moment de
maniere objective.;
- il faut que les projets d'assistance technique servent d'abord au renforcement des capacites et non
la mise en oeuvre du programme d'ajustement structurel.
35. En matiere de gestion du projet, il semble opportun de creer un organe de gestion du projet avec des
termes de reference bien precis et des indicateurs de performance preetablis en commun accord entre la
Banque et le Gouvernement.
36. Compte tenu des actions en cours au SCEP et des actions de Reconstruction et de relance de
l'economie, il est indispensable de negocier le Wime Projet d'Assistance technique ( ATV). Ce nouveau
projet est indispensable, les acquis du IVe projet d'assistance technique doivent etre p6rennises et renforces
tant au niveau de la reforme des EP qu'au niveau de la reforme budgetaire, comptable et au niveau de la
maitrise des instruments de programmation des depenses (PIP/PDP/PCT).















IMAGING
Report No:       15161
Type: ICR



