Page  1
November 15, 1991
His Excellency
Mr. Adrien Sibomana
Prime Minister and Minister of Planning
Prime Ministry and Ministry of Planning
B.P. 224
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Re: Credit No, 1795-BU
(Economic and Public Enterprise Management Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency,
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement ("the Agreement") between the 
Republic of Burundi (the Borrower) and the International Development Association ("the 
Association") dated October 9, 1987.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees with the Borrower's 
request dated August 3l, 1991, to amend the Agreement, consequently the, Association 
hereby agrees to the
following amendment to the Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is amended:
 
a)
by inserting after paragraph (e) the following two new paragraphs:
 
(f)
"MTSS" means Ministere du Travail et de la Securite Sociate, the 
Borrower's 
Ministry of Labor and Social Security.
 
(g)
"SPAS" means Secretariat du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel.
 
b)
Consequently, the paragraphs (f), (g) and (h) become respectively the 
paragraphs (h), (i) and (j).
2.
Schedule I of the Agreement is replaced by the attached amended Schedule I 
(attachment 1).
3.
Schedule 2 of the Agreement is replaced by the attached amended Schedule 2 
(attachment 2).
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating 
the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided and 
returning one original, as countersigned, to us.  This amendment shall become 
effective as of the date of receipt by the Association of this letter duly 
countersigned by you.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Page  2
Attachments
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 1
(Amended)
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below acts forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                    Amount of the
                    Credit Allocated             % of
                    (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent          to be Financed
(1) Vehicles,                                100% of foreign
    equipment and                            expenditures and
    supplies                                 80% of local
                                             expenditures
   (a) under Part A      103,643
       of the Project
   (b) under Part C       12,270
       of the Project
   (c) under Part D       98,215
       of the Project
(2) Operating Costs      434,550             100% in year one,
    for SCEP                                 85% in year two,
                                             and 70% in year
                                             three
(3) Consultants                              100%
    service
   (a) under Parts A.1,  2,773,500
       of the Project
   (b) under Parts B.1,    568,860
       B.2, and C of
       the Project
   (c) under Part D         28,750
       of the Project
(4) Fellowships                              100% of foreign
                                             expenditures
   (a) under Part A        127,500
       of the Project
   (b) under Part B        150,000
       of the Project
   (c) under Part C         35,715
       of the Project
   (d) under Part D    30,360
       of the Project
(5) Consultants'    1,212,515                100% offoreign
Page  3
services                                     expenditures
under Part B.3 of                            and 80% of local
the Project                                  expenditures
(6) Refunding of      343,434                Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance                          to Section 2.02 (c)
                                             of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated        80,688
          TOTAL     6,999,000
                    ==========
2.
If the amount allocated to Category (6) above is in excess of the amount due, 
the excess will be reallocated to Category (7).
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplies from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "year one" in the column setting forth the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for Category (2) means the first year 
covered by SCEP's Annual Work Program;
(d)
the term "year two" in the column setting forth the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for Category (2) means the third year 
covered by SCEP's Annual Work
Program;
(e)
the term "year three" in the column setting forth the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for Category (2) means the third year 
covered by SCEP's Annual Work
Program;
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
Attachment 2
SCHEDULE 2
(Amended)
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
management of its Public Enterprise sector; (ii) strengthening the rationalization 
functions for budgetary choices at the level of MPCP, MF and other Ministries; and 
(iii) strengthening the public expenditure programming process at MF, MPCP and MTSS. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Public Enterprises
 
1.
Carrying out of studies on the policies followed by the Borrower vis a vis 
Public Enterprises and definition of criteria for the Borrower's involvement in the 
Public Enterprise sector.
Page  4
2.
Establishing a system to assess and monitor the performance of the PE Sector.
 
3.
Strengthening the institutional framework for PEs by:
 
(a)
the carrying out of a study to define the institutional relationships 
between the Borrower, the PEs' boards of directors and the Borrower's having 
supervisory authority over such PEs;
(b)
designing a system of performance incentives  for their staff; and
 
(c)
designing a system of monitorable objectives to assess the performance of 
the PEs.
4.
Carrying out economic evaluations of rehabilitation plans for PEs.
 
5.
Designing a training program for the staff of SCEP, SPAS and PEs.
 
6.
Provision of training in accounting, financing, management and strategic 
planning of SCEP's, SPAS's and PE's staff and their management.
7.
Provision to SCEP of office equipment and four vehicles.
 
Part B:
Strengthening the Borrower's Planning Capacity
 
1.
Strengthening MPCP by:
 
(a)
strengthening project appraisal activities in the Planning Directorate;
 
(b)
strengthening the public investment programming process;
 
(c)
providing training in financial and economic methodologies for the 
evaluation of projects to MPCP's staff; and
(d)
strengthening the capacities of SPAS to monitor the execution of the 
adjustment program.
2.
Strengthening the sectoral planning capacity in various Ministries of the 
Borrower by:
(a)
strengthening the project preparation and appraisal capacities in the 
sectoral planning units of the Borrower's Ministries of Agriculture, Education and 
Health;
(b)
strengthening the departments responsible for the execution of sectoral 
studies in some of the Borrower's Ministries; and
(c)
designing an inter-sectoral, sub-sectoral, prefeasibility, feasibility 
and engineering studies.
4.
Provision of office equipment and vehicles to MTSS and MPCP.
 
Part C.
Strengthening MF
 
1.
Designing and implementing a unified public expenditure program.
 
2.
Provision of training in public expenditure planning to MF's staff.
 
Part D.
Strengthening MTSS by
 
1.
designing a system of data base collection of labor statistics for economic 
planning; and
2.
providing training in collection and analysis of economic and social data to 
MTSS staff.
* * *
Page  5
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992
