Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1795 BU
(Economic and Public Enterprise
Management Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 9, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1795 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1987, between THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower through  its 
Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques (SCEP);
(C)
Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower through 
its Ministry at the Presidence responsible for Planning and its Ministry of Finance, 
respectively; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth:
(a)
"MPCP" means Ministere a la Presidence Charge du Plan, the  Borrower's 
Ministry at the Presidence responsible for Planning;
(b)
"MF" means Ministere des Finances, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
 
(c)
"SCEP" means Service Charge des Entreprises Publiques, the Borrower's 
Public Enterprise Service organized pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 100/48/86 
dated July 10, 1986, under the supervisory authority of the President of the Republic 
of Burundi;
(d)
"Public Enterprises" or "PEs" means the public enterprises of the 
Borrower's territory including: (i) Commercial and Industrial Enterprises,   
Etablissements Publics a Caractere Industriel et Commercial (EPIC),  established 
pursuant to Decree - Law No. 1/30, dated October 10, 1978; (ii) Public Corporations 
Societes de Droit Public (SDP), established pursuant to Decree - Law No. 1/31, dated 
October 11, 1978; (iii) Mixed Public-Private Ownership Enterprises, Societes 
d'Economie Mixte, (SEM) established pursuant to Decree - Law No. 1/31, dated October 
11, 1978;
(e)
"SNES" means the Borrower's statistical service within MPCP;
 
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 
to December 31; and
(g)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
September 19, 1986, and November 6, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,000,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the  reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special accounts in its Central Bank in the name of SCEP (Special Account 
A) and of MPCP (Special Account B) on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out  of, Special Accounts A and B shall be 
Page  3
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 and 5 to this Agreement, 
respectively.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself  the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized  amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of  the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts  shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.O7. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 
1997, and ending May 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through SCEP, MPCP and MF with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financing and planning practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 15 of each year 
prepare and furnish to the Association for review and comments SCEP's proposed Annual 
Work Program and budget for the following year; and  (b) introduce such changes in 
SCEP's proposed Annual Work Program and budget as may be necessary on the basis of 
said review.
Page  4
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31 of each  year 
review with the Association the progress achieved by SCEP in carrying out its Work 
Program during the previous year; and (b) take all necessary  measures to make any 
adjustment to SCEP's Work Program for the current year based on such review.
Section 3.05. For purposes of financing rehabilitation plans for PE the Borrower 
shall take all necessary measures for: (a) the creation of an Intervention Fund with 
responsibilities and funding satisfactory to the Association; and (b) the 
establishment of a managerial committee for such  Fund, with membership and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures satisfactory to the 
Association to ensure that no funds are released from the Intervention Fund to assist 
in the financing of a rehabilitation plan for a PE unless: (i) prior review of such 
rehabilitation plan has been  carried out by SCEP; and (ii) the financing of such 
rehabilitation plan has  been approved by the managerial committee of the Intervention 
Fund after consultation with SCEP.
Section 3.07. For purposes of carrying out Parts A.5 and 6 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1988, furnish to the Association for 
review and comments a three-year training plan for SCEP's and PE's staff of a scope 
defined in agreement with the Association;  and (b) based on such review in agreement 
with the Association make all necessary changes to such plan and promptly carry it 
out.
Section 3.08. For purposes of carrying out Parts B.1 (c), B.4 (b) and C.2 of the 
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 31 of each  year furnish to the 
Association for review and comments a training plan for MPCP's and MF's staff which 
scope and detail shall have been defined by the Borrower; and (b) based on such 
comments, make all necessary changes to such plan and promptly carry it out.
Section 3.09. For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
not later than February 1, 1988, carry out a review of its public 
expenditure programming system and prepare an action plan satisfactory to the 
Association to improve the coordination between the various Ministries of the Borrower 
in the framework of such system; and
(b)
thereafter take all necessary measures satisfactory to the Association 
for the carrying out of such plan.
Section 3.10. For purposes of carrying out Part B.3 of the Project the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
not later than October 31 of each year furnish to the Association for 
approval an annual program of sectoral, sub-sectoral, prefeasibility, feasibility and 
engineering studies to be carried out by the various  Ministries of the Borrower 
during the following year. Such program shall be prepared following the procedures and 
in accordance with the selection criteria set forth in Schedule 6 of this Agreement; 
and
(b)
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above if in the course of 
a year the Borrower identifies other additional sectoral, sub-sectoral, 
prefeasibility, feasibility and engineering studies, such studies may be presented to 
the Association for its approval.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound  accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect  of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
           (iii)    furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or payments out of the Special Account were made on the basis  of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Intervention Fund and SCEP to each:
(a)
maintain records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition;
(b)
have their records and accounts for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (i) certified copies of their 
financial statements for such year as so audited; and (ii)  the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as the  Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that Decree No. 100/48/86 dated July 10, 1986, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of SCEP to perform any of its obligations under the Project; and
(b)
that the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SCEP or for the suspension of 
its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: the event specified in paragraph (a) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that  the  Intervention Fund referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement has  been created; and the managerial committee 
referred to in paragraph (b) of such Section has been established.
Section 6.02. The date hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the Presidence responsible for planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere a la Presidence
Charge du Plan
B.P. 224
Bujumbura
Republique du Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFIN
5036
Bujumbura
MINIPLAN BDI
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
 SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Vehicles,                                   100% of foreign
     equipment and                               expenditures and
     supplies                                    80% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  under Part A             125,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Parts B.1,         110,000
          B.2, B.4, B.5
          and C of the
          Project
(2)  Operating Costs               365,000       100% in year one,
     for SCEP                                    85% in year two,
                                                 and 70% in year
                                                 three
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     services
     (a)  under Part A           2,020,000
          of the Project
     (b)  under Parts B.1,         740,000
          B.2, B.4, B.5
          and C of the
          Project
(4)  Fellowships                                 100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
     (a) under Part A              270,000
Page  8
         of the Project
     (b) under Parts B.1,          140,000
         B.2, B.4, B.5 and
         C of the Project
(5)  Consultants' services       1,585,000       100% of foreign
     under Part B.3 of the                       expenditures
     Project                                     and 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Refunding of                  395,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   250,000
                                _________
         TOTAL                   6,000,000
2.
If the amount allocated to Category (6) above is in excess of the amount due, 
the excess will be reallocated to Category (7). 
3.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "year one" in the column setting forth the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for Category (2) means the  first year 
covered by SCEP's Annual Work Program;
(d)
the term "year two" in the column setting forth the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed out of the credit for Category (2) means the second year 
covered by SCEP's Annual Work Program; and
(e)
the term "year three" in the column setting forth the percentages of 
expenditures to be financed out of the Credit for Category (2) means the  third year 
covered by SCEP's Annual Work Program.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
management of its Public Enterprise sector; (ii) strengthening  the rationalization 
functions for budgetary choices at the level of MPCP,  MF and other Ministries; and 
(iii) strengthening the public expenditure programming process at MF and MPCP.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Public Enterprises
 
1.
Carrying out of studies on the policies followed by the Borrower vis a vis 
Public Enterprises and definition of criteria for the Borrower's involvement in the 
Public Enterprise sector.
Page  9
2.
Establishing a system to assess and monitor the performance of the PE Sector.
 
3.
Strengthening the institutional framework for PEs by:
 
(a)
the carrying out of a study to define the institutional relationships 
between the Borrower, the PEs' boards of directors and the Borrower's Ministries 
having supervisory authority over such PEs;
(b)
designing a system of performance incentives for their staff; and
 
(c)
designing a system of monitorable objectives to assess the performance of 
the PEs.
4.
Carrying out economic evaluations of rehabilitation plans for PEs.
 
5.
Designing a training program for the staff of SCEP and of the PEs.
 
6.
Provision of training in accounting, financing, management and strategic 
planning to SCEP's and PEs' staff and their management.
7.
Provision to SCEP of office equipment and four vehicles.
 
Part B:
Strengthening the Borrower's Planning Capacity
 
1.
Strengthening MPCP by:
 
(a)
strengthening project appraisal activities in the Planning Directorate.
 
(b)
strengthening the public investment programming process; and
 
(c)
providing training in financial and economic methodologies for the 
evaluation of projects to MPCP's staff.
2.
Strengthening the sectoral planning capacity in various Ministries of the 
Borrower by:
(a)
strengthening the project preparation and appraisal capacities in the 
sectoral planning units of the Borrower's Ministries of Agriculture, Education and 
Health;
(b)
strengthening the departments responsible for the execution of  sectoral 
studies in some of the Borrower's Ministries;
(c)
designing an inter-sectoral review process for investment decisions.
 
3.
Preparing, selecting and carrying out sectoral, sub-sectoral, prefeasibility, 
feasibility and engineering studies.
4.
Strengthening SNES by:
 
(a)
designing a system of data base collection for economic planning; and
 
(b)
providing training in collection and analysis of economic and social data 
to SNES's staff.
5.
Provision of office equipment to SNES and MPCP and of two vehicles to MPCP and 
two to SNES.
Part C:
Strengthening MF
 
1.
Designing and implementing a unified public expenditure program.
 
2.
Provision of training in public expenditure planning to MF's staff.
 
*     *     *
Page  10
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable contracts for equipment and vehicles shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Burundi may be  granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the  provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1  through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 
or less each may be awarded on the basis of:
(a)
competitive bidding, in accordance with the applicable procedures of the 
Borrower; and
(b)
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least  three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Such equipment and vehicles may also be purchased through regular commercial and 
other local channels at a reasonable price account being taken of relevant factors 
such as the availability of spare parts and time of delivery.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be  made out of any of 
the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of 
the first payment out of any of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of any of the Special 
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the  other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 4 and 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of  expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
Page  11
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures  satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (a), 2, 3 (a) and 4 (a) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
160,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in Special Account A 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of Special Account 
A shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized  Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit in Special Account A 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of Special Account A at such intervals or in such minimum amounts as the Association 
shall specify. On the basis of such requests,  the Association shall withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into  Special Account A such amounts as shall be required 
to replenish Special Account A with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made 
out of Special Account A for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account A the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, prior to or with any request, for replenishment or 
upon request of the Association such documents and other evidence as the Association 
shall reasonably request, showing that such  payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into Special Account A shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the  Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Page  12
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories for Part A of the Project, minus the 
amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions 
with respect to Part A of the Project, shall be equal 
to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A of 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall  specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made  only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in Special Account A as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of Special Account A: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into Special Account A (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into Special Account A shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account A will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such   outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account B
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 (b), 3 (b), 4 (b) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the  Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from  time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
320,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in Special Account B 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of Special Account 
B shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized  Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit in Special Account B 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of Special Account B at such intervals or in such minimum amounts as the Association 
Page  13
shall specify. On the basis of such requests,  the Association shall withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into  Special Account B such amounts as shall be required 
to replenish Special Account B with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made 
out of Special Account B for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account B the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, prior to or with any request for replenishment or 
upon request of the Association such documents and other evidence as the Association 
shall reasonably request, showing that such  payment was made for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into Special Account B shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories for Parts B and C of the Project, minus 
the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by 
the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts B and C of the 
Project, shall be 
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts B and 
C of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association  shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in Special Account B as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of Special Account B: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into Special Account B (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into Special Account B shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account B will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
SCHEDULE 6
Program of Studies
MPCP coordinates the preparation of an annual program of sectoral, sub-sectoral, 
prefeasibility, feasibility, engineering and other preinvestment studies and monitors 
the carrying out of such studies. Such studies are selected following the procedures 
and in accordance with the criteria set forth below:
A.
Procedures for the selection of studies to be included in the annual program:
 
1.
The various Ministries of the Borrower will prepare study proposals  classified 
Page  14
in an intrasectoral priority order for review.
2.
Such studies are proposed and reviewed in the framework of an interministerial 
coordination process.
3.
Thereafter MPCP selects the studies to be included in the annual program of 
studies to be furnished to the Association for its approval pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.10 of this Agreement.
B.
Selection Criteria for the studies to be included in the annual program:
 
1.
To be included in such program, any sectoral, sub-sectoral, prefeasibility, 
feasibility and engineering study shall meet the following criteria:
(a)
be necessary for the preparation and execution of the Borrower's Economic 
Development Plan 1988-1992; and
(b)
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the cost of each study as 
financed under Category (5) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall not exceed $250,000 
in 1987 prices.
2.
In addition, depending on its classification any such study shall have to meet 
either of the following criteria:
(a)
Feasibility studies:
 
Such studies shall be intended for investment projects included in the 
Borrower's public investment program for which a source of financing has been 
identified.
(b)
Engineering studies:
 
Such studies shall be intended for investment projects which soundness has been 
demonstrated by a feasibility study.
